ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-33.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Housing and National Service.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-33.u2	Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands, a whole empty-stock industry has been created. It may seem hip at first that people can quickly live somewhere with loan contracts, on the basis of which they actually do not pay rent. However, many people who need a normal house with some rent protection are the victims of this. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that anti-crackers have a loan contract and therefore live to a large extent unrighteously;]] [[Whereas abuses such as violation of privacy rules or intimidation of residents occur;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that no new loan contracts are concluded and to submit a transitional arrangement to the House of Representatives for residents on loan contracts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33436-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-33.u3	Mr. Chairman. I'm not filing a motion. I do need to mark our position. If you don't have squatters, you don't need an antidote. Let's just be happy that someone wants to keep an eye out through empty space management. The VVD is against all kinds of extra rules and additional rental protection in the vacant position management. The properties we're talking about are someone's. It's just hard work for that. We are in favour of the enforcement of property rights, even if this means that these buildings may be just as empty.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-33.u4	I do have a question about what Mr Van der Linde said about cracking. That's why the squatting ban was introduced. One of the conditions was that vacancy would be combated. That's not happening right now. Does the VVD group accept that there are young people, elderly people and families living somewhere and for whom there is no protection? If you live in such a building, your landlord can just walk into it at any time, even when you're busy with your loved one; people can also come and clean up asbestos. Does the VVD accept this form of living? Is that the civilisation of the VVD Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-33.u5	It's very easy. The removal of asbestos is reserved for people who are legally equipped to do so and who wear protective clothing. That's not for tenants. The same applies to empty mode management. Mrs Karabulut gave the example of making love. That example seems to be ten years old. Some of the people in this business have told me that. Whatever. The usual rules apply. I don't see anything special about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-33.u6	"It's all right," the VVD talks about tenants, about residents of buildings who may indeed have a special history. However, these people also have the right to privacy. This kind of thing happens. You could say, "Whatever." However, this kind of thing happens. I find it disgusting that the VVD, which says it stands for freedom, does not want to offer any protection to enable freedom for all those residents. However, we are going to talk about this in more detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-33.u7	I just think it's a fair deal. You choose empty mode management. Then you choose a very low interest rate. And that includes being very flexible. It's part of the plan that you can quickly clear the apartment again. For example, the big advantage is that this is an ideal way for artists to have a large surface to do their thing. It is an ideal way for students to live in very nice places. And that for a low rent. As soon as we put rent protection on it, as soon as we put additional rules on it, we also know that the flexibility goes out of the system and that those benefits are gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-33.u8	I'll see if the minister can answer directly. There's been one motion filed. I see that this is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-33.u9	Mr. Chairman. In Mrs Karabulut's motion to item No. 40 the government is asked to ensure that no new loan contracts are concluded and to submit to the Lower House a transitional arrangement for the residents. During the consultation I have already indicated that a legally solid lease is, as far as I am concerned, a royal route. Because I realize that there is also a need for temporary rental constructions, I will come to the Chamber with a bill to allow solid leases for those situations as well. At the same time, I have said that I find loan agreements valuable in those situations where the alternative would be empty. That's bad for a place and often bad for the neighborhood. These buildings are often kept lively, indeed often also as a workshop or workspace. I do not want to remove that possibility from Dutch society, I said. Mrs Karabulut then asked for privacy and now too. I would be happy to discuss with the organisers of the Certificate Leisurestand Management, where a lot of empty stand managers are connected, whether it is possible to establish entry rules from that label so that you agree with each other under what conditions the owner enters the property. I would like to proceed along that route, but the motion that is now on the table and which calls for loan contracts to be made impossible, I really must advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-33.u10	That's too bad. You could also say that everyone needs a certain level of protection, including that privacy, and that we are therefore looking at the minimum requirements that we can set. Making it negotiable in connection with the label seems fine to me. Is the Minister prepared to include other aspects, such as security maintenance and management? There are unsafe situations because complaints are not being heard and asbestos, for example. Is the Minister also prepared to reflect on how to monitor this? Now it is the butcher who approves his own flesh.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-33.u11	Mrs Karabulut mentions a number of issues, including asbestos. That is what I said and I keep saying: asbestos is dangerous stuff. No one can be required to clean that up without professional protection. By the way, nobody should want to do that themselves. On other issues, I believe that the issue of privacy is relevant to a quality mark. I am also prepared to discuss other subjects, but not in a form that would lead to the government monitoring them. I also think it is clear that the industry itself is responsible for a quality mark. As Minister responsible for living, I do have such an industry around the table and I encourage them to extend such a quality mark to the subjects I mention. That doesn't mean I think the state should start checking this out right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-33.u12	Finally, Mrs Karabulut, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-33.u13	When can we expect the results of these talks or this conversation with the industry?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-33.u14	I will inform the House of its outcome in the coming spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-09-tweedekamer-33.u15	We have come to the end of this VAO. The motion tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday. Mr De Rouwe is the first speaker for the next VAO. I don't see him in the room yet. We'll wait a little longer.
