ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would again like to welcome the committee and the support of the committee. I call Mr Elias, the chairman of the committee, for his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u2	I quote the two very last sentences of our report on page 194. "The Lower House is regularly at the beginning of the policy idea and always at the end of its controlling function. Let it also mean the beginning of the end for many problems with ICT projects in the Empire." Those were our last sentences. The Committee is very pleased that we are now debating the report together, and thus jointly underlining the importance of a good solution to the problems of ICT projects in the Empire. On behalf of the committee, I would also like to thank all the spokesmen for their questions and comments on our report, both in the factual questions before this debate and yesterday in the contribution of the Chamber in the first term. We accept the many compliments for our research. I'll transfer them one-on-one to our research staff, here in box-K behind us. Since 15 October, we have received many statements of support for the report. These reached us both in writing by e-mail, as well as orally during meetings on the street and in public transport. We were regularly told: "How good that you have finally all written it down firmly" but also: "It is much worse than you think." And: "In the department where I work, a major ICT project is failing, but noises about this cover up the manager." I'm not making that up. It simply happened to us as committee members. We've been fooled sometimes. In recent weeks, the media have also re-reported failed ICT projects, for example at the National Police, around the Salland-Twente tunnel, where ICT problems prevent opening up, and so on. So our report isn't a day early. Time is overripe for change. Here in box K we are as a committee, but above all also as fellow chamber members of the honourable Members in the plenary. A number of questions, in particular questions of a more factual or technical nature, have already been answered by the committee in writing this morning. I will answer the other questions orally on behalf of the committee in my speech this afternoon. We are all familiar with the phenomenon of directors cutting up the answer in cubes and systematically working on the easy questions about the hottest issue. We do it differently, because we're together. The blocks remain, but we start with our most important recommendation: the creation of the BIT, i.e. the ICT Test Office. Many of you asked questions yesterday about the creation and tasks of that BIT. Before I begin, however, I would like to reassure the committee on the question put yesterday about the primacy of politics, which is a part of BIT. It is therefore a question of whether a body or body does not interfere with the democratic process in the Chamber. This issue is even more important The concerns that some of you have expressed about the possible constitutional complications of the BIT's review of motions want to remove the committee immediately. The primacy of politics is always guaranteed, so there are no such constitutional consequences. I cannot stress enough that we, the House of Representatives, are of course dealing with our own processes and procedures. The Chamber always has the last word. This applies not least to motions, amendments and legislation. The committee only proposes to ask the BIT for advice. The House of Representatives may, of course, reject this opinion, but at least it has been informed about the implications of a motion and its possible consequences. The Chamber has the full right, so to speak, to continue to make its own mistakes or to continue to address a social problem, even if there are consequences in money or time. It is and remains an opinion that this Chamber can always ignore. I hope this has taken away the concerns of Mr Verhoeven. Nevertheless, I stand here on behalf of the committee in the spirit of reaching agreement with the Chamber. The committee has listened carefully to the sensitivity that lives on this issue. Mr Van der Linde put forward an interesting idea in this connection, which the committee certainly considers worthwhile. He proposed that the Bureau of Parliament's Legislation be involved when a Member of Parliament wishes to table or draft a motion or amendment. Our Legislative Office could then be asked to request the BIT to perform a BIT test. Because at the same time the Minister or Secretary of State may also ask for such a test, Mr Verhoeven asked explicitly for this and the committee embraces that suggestion.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. A Member of Parliament who does not allow that review to be carried out may be confronted with it during the procedure. In order to strengthen this, the Committee notes that these are motions, amendments or own-initiative legislation with an important ICT component and that, following such a request from the Legislative Bureau, the BIT assesses in particular the ICT technical, organisational and financial consequences of the choices to be made and the final feasibility. Of course, the BIT test, whether or not it is through the Bureau of Legislation, should not unduly delay the work of the Chamber. The Committee therefore proposes that the BIT test be carried out within one week so that it can be voted on soon. Or, to use Mrs Keijzer's words, she is unfortunately in another debate: it should not be a 'political nuisance'. In short, the person submitting the motion has the right to seek advice from the BIT. If the author does not request a BIT opinion, other groups may vote against it for the reason that it is too clear what the implications of the motion may be. Here, too, the Chamber must put its own hands into its own bosom. We in the Chamber have too often requested or pushed things that were unwise. Members have read our report and they know that I am still diplomatically expressing myself. That is why it is better to have proposals tested. The Court's working methods should certainly be asked to include changing practices by setting up the BIT in the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. Some Members have already suggested this. The fact that opinions are to be requested from the BIT through the involvement of, for example, the Legislative Office may form part of this. The committee does say: this only works if groups have the discipline to vote against motions that have not been reviewed but have a relevant ICT component. It is the Chamber itself that must be disciplined here. And yes, that requires a cultural change, even here in the house. Yesterday, the Chamber used qualifications such as 'deafening' and 'deafening' for the waste we have seen and also for our own actions. Of course, the committee agrees with that. But that cannot be without consequences. The Committee therefore calls on the Chamber to work with us to bring about the necessary cultural change here in this house. Otherwise empty words were spoken yesterday. The desired cultural change I come to speak about it in a broader sense is inextricably linked to the creation of the BIT. If the cultural change has not yet been realised through the BIT after five years, there is still two years left to gas. But if nothing else has come of it, the committee fears that it is time to think of something else. I say this particularly to Mr Van der Linde and Mr Verhoeven, who both raised questions about the life span of BIT. Furthermore, the Committee would like to make it clear that the BIT opinions may be compared in procedure with the Advisory Committee on Regulatory Pressure Review (Actal), but certainly not as far as the Committee is concerned. Mrs Keijzer pointed out to the committee that it is important for the Chamber to keep sufficient distance and not to sit on the client's seat. The committee can only agree wholeheartedly with that. The BIT has a controlling role in relation to individual ICT projects. The BIT tests these at different times on the basis of certain criteria. The BIT can prevent a project from starting that does not comply with the BIT rules, or make it stop prematurely. The Chamber receives these BIT opinions and is therefore critically involved. Some Members of Parliament asked yesterday in the first term about the way in which the Chamber operates in response to the committee's recommendations. I would like to explain the committee's ideas on this. In addition to the recommendation of the BIT test on motions, which I have just spoken about, the committee has three recommendations on this point. Firstly, the Court must be aware of the importance of ICT. The Chamber will therefore now include ICT issues in the introduction programme of new Members of Parliament. The political groups in ICT briefings can also request additional explanations or explanations from the BIT, for example. In any case, BIT will introduce itself to the political groups and explain its role in the work of the Chamber. Secondly, the Court will make greater use of existing instruments, such as the Large Projects Scheme, and will actually do something with this increased information provision. Thirdly, the Committee asks the cabinet to include ICT explicitly and structurally in its decision-making. This can be done by including an ICT assessment framework on the form of the Council of Ministers. It may also be decided to add an ICT paragraph to policy papers and the explanatory memorandum to legislative proposals. These are more than procedural proposals. This puts ICT in real political decision-making. As regards the flow of reports to be dealt with during an AO meeting, the Chamber may consider changing its agenda. This can be done, for example, by having more general consultations with smaller agendas. Of course, that is entirely up to the Chamber itself. In any case, the Court has been able to better assess the reports with the above recommendations and the BIT tests. The Chamber is therefore also better able to ask the right questions. Every time: you are there, you decide! The main question is whether after previous Court reports, after the Gerkens report five years ago and after our report today, the Chamber has not only been alarmed, but also remains awake when it comes to ICT. Our research has shown that the problem of managing ICT projects is so large and structural that drastic measures are immediately needed. The government can no longer afford the waste of so much public money. After all, it is estimated that between EUR 1 billion and EUR 5 billion are wasted on failed ICT projects per year. The government has made efforts in recent years to make its ICT projects manageable, but that was too late and too little. The failures continued. I have just given the two most recent examples: the National Police and the Salland-Twente tunnel. We, the Chamber, the Cabinet and the taxpayer are dealing with an emergency situation. In short, the committee finds the following: "All hands on deck, here at least 10,000 Maserati's are shredded every year. Now we need to stop the bleeding ICT wound and create an emergency bandage." It is of the utmost importance that both the political and the administrative apparatus become aware of this. It is time for the government to learn from its mistakes and to adapt its behavior and method. A cultural change is needed. The only way to achieve this change is to step outside the beaten paths. We have to, the committee thinks. In order to bring order to the chaos, the committee has proposed the creation of a temporary Bureau ICT review, abbreviated "BIT." BIT reviews projects above €5 million, in which ICT plays an important role. However, the committee does not want to be able to smuggle by deliberately keeping projects below 5 million, in order to get out of the review. The Committee therefore expects BIT to monitor all government projects, including projects close to EUR 5 million, but just below them. Of course, it is always possible to ask the BIT for advice or to have a test carried out, including for projects of less than EUR 5 million. The BIT will function as the proverbial lesson car with extra brake pedal mentioned by Mr Van der Linde. The committee was charmed by this comparison. It is a temporary instrument, but with lasting effect because the BIT keys will no longer be needed. Over time, the government becomes so familiar with these so-called BIT rules, that it has made its own. The ICT testing agency is therefore a vehicle of cultural change. And of course such a cultural change takes time. The Committee therefore does not think that this will be done within a year, but estimates that after a period of five years a solid basis will be laid. It is very logical that at the end of this period it is well considered whether it is necessary to keep the BIT still longer. The committee proposes the possibility of an extension of two years, but a possible extension and its duration can be considered by that time. The ICT Examination Office will mainly monitor the application of the BIT rules. Those are sober farmers' understanding rules. We have described them. We have described them which lead to the project principles being in order so that clients within the Empire do not start expanding ICT adventures or continue to muddle unnecessarily with failed projects. By making that test mandatory, department staff are forced to ask and answer essential questions about their ICT projects before they are launched. Without the BIT's approval, these ICT projects will not continue. And only by following the BIT rules can the government control and control the costs and expenditure of ICT projects, and prevent further waste of taxpayers' money in these projects. Not only before a project, but also in later phases of a project, the BIT will perform a test. This is done at least at two times during the execution and if desired during the procurement phase in the form of a viewing consultation. There were questions about that. In principle, this viewing consultation is voluntary, because the Committee is convinced that most of the problems that currently exist in the procurement phase are overcome by the earlier tests of the BIT. If a client thinks carefully before starting a project and the project principles are in order, the tender will also be much better placed in the market according to the committee's belief. The other recommendations of the Committee on Procurement and Procurement are also to be discussed. However, it is possible that BIT may impose a viewing consultation on a department when it is decided to leave a project conditionally through the BIT lock. The project will then only take place on condition that the BIT participates in the tendering phase. The Committee welcomes the support of the Chamber for the conclusions contained in the report and the shared need for the establishment of the BIT. It is a good thing that the Chamber considers that agency to be really necessary and wants to give it real powers. It is good to hear from the Chamber that we are in complete agreement on the necessity and the powers, so on the purpose of BIT. These are important observations for the committee. The Committee remains of the opinion that the BIT can only be transferred to the Ministry of General Affairs. This opinion is based on two years of extensive research and on discussion and reflection in our own circle.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u3	I do not know how long the blocks of the chairman of the committee are, but I think I can do it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u4	It's been a long time, so I think it's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u5	Before we talk about the placement in the organization, I'd like to ask you a few questions about the BIT. The chairman of the committee, Mr Elias, is right to say that there seems to be broad enthusiasm about the proposal to set up such a bureau. However, when I hear him say a number of things and think back to yesterday's questions, I see a number of possible dangerous incentives coming from that agency. Imagine that a Member of Parliament has tabled a motion and himself believes that there is no ICT component to his proposal, but that another group does not want to vote in favour and says: you have to check it out at the BIT. Since the petitioner does not do so, it does not, and then that motion is voted on. That's the kind of thing you're gonna get, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u6	But the opposite of what Mr Verhoeven is asking is the MP who is tabling a motion which he knows includes ICT components, which he considers to be delaying, and then says: no, there are no ICT components in it. If you want to imagine things differently than reality, I'm neutral, of course, always can. We're supposed to solve the problem. One of the problems is that there are regular motions here whose scope is unclear in terms of ICT, time and money, then the Chamber takes a decision on something that it does not know what happens to it, then the departments say: the Chamber wants it, so we are going to do it... Well, Mr Verhoeven knows the sequel. That's what we want to stop. And yes, it will happen that a Member of Parliament will be unhappy, because a group has said: why was no test carried out, because there is an ICT component in it. It happens. However, I would remind you of the need and the problems that arise here. This is a lesser evil than allowing the existing situation to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u7	That may be, but I want to think about it very carefully. Mr Elias said that the BIT in organisational form will be similar to Actal, but will have to have a heavier impact. There is no way at the moment to check forward motions. We're gonna do that for the first time in history. Does Mr Elias see that other parts of BITs or BATs or BOTs are also being set up to test cases in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u8	I don't see that one-two-three in front of me. I find the need very high here. I shall say a little more about this later. Moreover, I believe that, in the past, Actal and, if I am not mistaken, the Court of Auditors have given opinions on things that the Chamber wanted and which brought with it additional regulatory pressure. But I'm gonna take a look at the colleagues. Am I saying that right? I hear you don't have any moves, but you do have some room proposals. It was possible to ask the Chamber whether it was aware that what it wanted meant that there would be incredibly many additional rules. Again, there'll be a bit of a tooth grinding here and there. I think so. But the need is high. A lot of money is wasted and the Chamber is often at the root of the problems. Then she must be more serious about what she does when certain motions are adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u9	I would like to support Mr Verhoeven on this point. I can very well imagine that you will not allow a motion to be examined until it has been adopted and the government has indicated how it will deal with it. That is perhaps the right time to say: now that it is turned into policy in that and that way, you can start to test things.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u10	I have already met the Chamber, on behalf of the committee, very much by taking into account the sensitivities that exist because the opinion would come directly from an institution or body. I just brought that up, but you weren't there.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u11	I say for the Acts: I have, of course, listened in my office.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u12	But I couldn't have known that. We'd like to move along with what the Chamber wants. If the Chamber sees it that way, the Chamber has to shape it that way. We will not oppose that. We're not making a big deal out of that. We are here today to do business, I shall say, and to solve the problem, not to be right. However, there must be something left of it. There has to be some way that we in the Chamber are not going to take on all kinds of things, which we do not know what huge ICT implications in terms of time and money that leads to. That is the cry for help that the committee has put forward. That is the position of the committee and that is our opinion to the Chamber. If that means that the Chamber wants to change direction, we cannot control it. That's up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u13	The pain is in him that if you take all these things, we call it in the group sometimes a "diarrhoeal to motion" test before you take them, you put up an institution with a lot of work. In addition, you can often go a lot with a motion. A motion is a vote in the Chamber, not an amendment. If we realise and agree that the BIT route must be followed if, for example, Parliamentary rulings are to be adopted, which really want something very big in the field of ICT, and if the Cabinet feels that it should be reviewed, then we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u14	I will not fall into the trap of giving my personal opinion or the opinion of my political group on the number of motions tabled as chairman of this broad committee. However, if I can understand you in such a way that when we move with a heavy ICT component, we need to think better about what the consequences might be in time and money, then I think we are very close together. The Chamber can follow the route as the report has said, the Chamber can follow the route as suggested by Mr Van Der Linde, who has just been qualified as interesting by us, in principle. The Chamber could also come up with something else which would change the form of a number of objections raised by Mrs Gesthuizen and Mr Verhoeven. For example, the objection that they do not want the Chamber to be too easily curtailed in making statements, but at the same time taking into account the getting out of hand of money and time. That's up to the Chamber. I think the message from the committee has come across. How the Chamber shapes that, is further up to her. I was talking about the suspension of the ICT testing office at the Ministry of General Affairs. Yesterday it appeared that some of the Members still have doubts about this. We are also happy to enter into the debate on this issue. In his contribution, Mr Verhoeven asked whether the Committee had thought about the placement of BIT in the Ministry of Finance, Home Affairs or Housing and the National Service. The answer to that is yes. The committee has, of course, made that consideration. We have even talked about this for a long time, because we have not just come to the recommendations. However, it is not only illogical, but also unwise to place the BIT with the Ministry of Finance. Firstly, this would place too much emphasis on the financial aspects of ICT in the light of the department's core task. The committee's final report clearly states that the causes of the failure of ICT projects are many times more complex than just finance. Secondly, the department itself has a lot of important ICT problems to deal with in this case. This immediately indicates that a separation between control and policy in the case of a suspension at Finance could become blurred. The Office should certainly not be placed under the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior or for Housing and National Service. While steps have been taken in recent years in the right direction for the state-wide cooperation, through the common ICT services and the establishment of the digital working environment within the Empire, which is certainly so much so, too little has really been done about the management of ICT projects. Home Affairs and Kingdom relations have taken the coordinating task of managing ICT projects sufficiently seriously since 1990. Furthermore, in the implementation of the I strategy between 2012 and 2015, there has been only limited attention to the management of ICT projects in the Empire. I would also like to mention the ICT dashboard in relation to Mr Fritsma's questions, which has been an unbelievable tool for many years, with all the national government's ICT projects constantly on the green. There's too much of a vindictive attitude in that department. Too much is being tested on the process and not on the content and quality of ICT projects. Moreover, those responsible in the department themselves say they have too little perseverance to be able to intervene drastically in ICT projects that go wrong. This is also reflected in the reports of the hearings attached to our report. There has been no implementation of the Decree on information in the State Service, known as the IVR, since 1990. The 1990 decision states that the Minister of BZK is responsible for the implementation of counter-expertise in the development, introduction or modification of risky automated information systems. In this role, the Minister for Foreign Affairs should make recommendations on the content and implementation of counter-expertises in large, risky ICT projects to other policy ministers. However, the committee has not found in its investigation that this task has been carried out since 1990. In the Committee's view, placing with the Minister for Housing and National Service would mainly be a cosmetic change. In fact, Wonen and Rijksdienst are the successors to the law of the Interior in the areas covered by its responsibilities, the department that for 25 years has not done enough work on the management of ICT projects. We say that not sarcastically or with pleasure, we establish that on the basis of the facts. The same applies to the Ministry of the Interior: the results of the past do not give good hope for the future. Placing the BIT at Home Affairs or at Living and Rijksdienst is therefore not an option for our committee. In the Committee's view, therefore, it belongs to the Ministry of General Affairs and to the direct responsibility of the Prime Minister. It is very important that BIT becomes an independent review body and thus separate from the professional departments. The committee absolutely does not want the butcher to approve his own meat. By placing the BIT at the policy-poor Ministry of General Affairs, it can objectively assess the large and risky ICT projects carried out by the policy departments. So that divides policy and control. The placement with the Ministry of General Affairs also gives the subject of ICT the political and administrative attention it needs now, but does not get. There must be a halt to the squabbling of departments that oppose each other and all kinds of well-intentioned consultations without anyone being able to make any decisions. According to the Committee, the prime minister should be responsible for ensuring the independence, continuity and quality of the BIT. The Prime Minister is not a prime minister. I place great emphasis, on behalf of the committee, on the responsibility of the ICT projects themselves or on the decision whether or not to continue these projects. He will not stop the automation with the police or the OV-chipkaart. The policy ministers will always remain final responsibility, not the prime minister or the BIT. However, the watchful eye of the BIT, placed at General Affairs, ensures that the sense of ICT urgency arises and continues to exist in the professional departments. The Prime Minister is already chairing the Ministerial Committee on Digital Government. The committee stresses this. In an interview with the National Commissioner for Digital Government in Computable on 27 November, the Prime Minister was quoted as saying that "it is not for eternity," but is intended as a flywheel effect to ensure that the goal of that National Commissioner is pursued at top level as well. That was my first point. In addition, during a general consultation, the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations confirmed and explained on Thursday 27 November the importance of the position of the National Commissioner for Digital Government and that the Commissioner reports to the Prime Minister. The NCDO may also "call the bell" to the Prime Minister if it opposes its proposals in the field. That was also a quote. This shows that the Prime Minister attaches importance to digital matters and is willing to play his full part in this. So the Prime Minister is already working on it when the BIT starts. The committee considers this to be a good thing and we see here an analogy with the BIT: by using the Prime Minister the urgency and the temporary nature of the BIT are endorsed. By the way, the Ministry of General Affairs and its advisers are already used to keeping an overview of ministries. The Ministry of AZ already has such a coordinating and controlling task. The role of BIT is therefore not necessarily new, but its impact. I am happy to admit that to those Members who asked a question about this. Moreover, there should be no fear of precedent, in the sense that in future there might be other issues that are also important to General Affairs. This has been pointed out from the Chamber. The committee has few precedents where, according to the most modest estimate by many experts, at least one billion euros are spilled each year. Each member of our committee knows in his or her portfolio a subject on which high-level political discussions have taken place in this Chamber, which then involved a sum of 50 million or so. Here we are talking about an amount that is at least twenty times as high, every year and without any discussion. Again, that's in the mildest estimate. And then the question would be de facto whether we should continue on the old track? In the Committee's view, it is really essential that the Prime Minister should feel the urgency of the ICT issue and ensure that the BIT gets there quickly, with the right powers and the right people. Only then can the government begin to control ICT projects. On behalf of the committee, I repeat: all this must be done, because there is now an emergency. The position of the Committee and the Chamber is similar when it comes to the purpose of the BIT. I've already established that. The committee has clear views on where to find the BIT organizational. I just explained it. If, however, the Chamber can convince us that it is better to choose another route, we are here to solve a major problem and we are open to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u15	Has the committee also thought about placing the BIT outside a ministry? When I hear Mr Elias talking about a number of things, I also start to see a number of other variants, which I might find even more attractive than placing under General Affairs. I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u16	If Mr Verhoeven is referring to a completely independent body, which is not controlled by anyone else and where there is no control whatsoever by the Chamber, we say no. We have talked about this, but that is not an option that the committee seemed to be able to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u17	Well, control through the Chamber can always be there. It is rather the other way around: the BIT is also going to check the Chamber a bit. Whoever you hang it from: the Minister of General Affairs, for example, ultimately has a political colour. You can always think about the degree of independence under whichever ministry you hang something. Of course, that independence will not increase if you hang it under a ministry instead of under the prime minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u18	Mr Verhoeven mentioned a number of tastes in his contribution. I think I have indicated why the committee believes that finance, BZK and WR are not obvious. So you get to AZ, or to another department, but that seems to be the committee ridicul. I really have to contradict Mr Verhoeven on behalf of the committee, when he says that the ICT testing office is going to control the Chamber. That is not the intention, nor is it the opinion of the committee. In the beginning, I made it very clear that in an even more far-reaching version than the Chamber might want, namely that the Bureau of Parliament's Legislation should be involved in advising that in all cases it is an opinion on the ICT components. If the House considers a motion important, which has been said: 'Think carefully, that is going to cost 40 million extra and last for six months', it can still say: we think it is of great social importance and it is worth it to us. In fact, therefore, there is no question whatsoever that the BIT would control the Chamber. I really want to take that idea away from Mr Verhoeven. I was hoping to have taken it away by my words at the beginning, when I said that there were no constitutional complications because it was about advice and nothing more than that. I will conclude with regard to the form of the ICT testing agency. I can't stress enough that it must be a small, agile club. There is absolutely no intention to set up a new administrative and bureaucratic institution. Nor do there have to be any major costs associated with BIT; questions were also asked about this. Of course, there must be a budget for a small number of permanent staff and for the use of outside experts from time to time. The committee does not see the need for additional money in the form of research budget and such. The BIT is therefore preferably established by law. That law stipulates that the various ministers comply with the BIT's rulings. In the law itself, the explanatory statement, or to settle further with General Measure of Governance, the tasks and powers of the BIT, including the BIT rules we propose, are listed. In addition, the legislator lays down that BIT is empowered, if necessary, to request information from the departments, other parts of the government and public-law independent administrative bodies, which it is therefore required to receive. We realize that such an agency, established by law, does not yet exist within the Dutch government. However, I cannot repeat it enough on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection about an emergency situation. In the field of information law, on which a question was asked, the BIT is somewhat like the Delta Commissioner, whose role and powers are laid down in the Delta Act. For example, it requires ministries to provide all the information the Delta Commissioner needs. The BIT receives information from the government through the CIO system, the company of all departmental chief information officers. It's worth a sweet thing for us to come up with a new word for that, but we'll just leave that in the ditch. If the BIT receives no or insufficient information, for example if a project does not comply with the BIT rules, there is a good chance that the project will not be able to continue. Moreover, the comparison between the powers of the BIT and the Delta Commissioner does not go much further than the information gathering and perhaps the size of both bodies. As has been said, there is not yet a body that compares itself well with the BIT. It is clear, however, that the BIT, as the Committee sees it for itself, is not comparable to organisations like the Authority Consumer & Market, to just call it a cross street. The ACM is a large, controlling institute of an essentially different type than the agile, small club that needs to become BIT. The Committee proposes that after the first six months and a year and a half, the BIT should produce a summary report for the Chamber. Those reports shall explain how many applications have been allocated by the BIT, how many have been rejected and what common thread was in those rejections. The committee also expects more action from the Chamber. The Chamber should finally take up its supervisory role in ICT projects better and more seriously. It can always address the minister responsible in the course of a project. The way in which the Chamber spoke recently on 5 November in a general discussion on ICT in the defence sector, the Committee sees it as an inspiring beginning, but we want to maintain the sense of urgency. We have deliberately pointed out the problems, because solving a problem starts with facing it. The only thing we fear is that it is slipping away from political attention. And that's not so much our job as it has been for nothing. We'll get over it again, but then the ICT problem of waste is getting worse, and we can't do that. The committee also expects ministers to continue to embrace the BIT test and con amore. After all, this external test will help them to launch projects with a greater chance of successful completion. Unfortunately, the fact that there is a need for this has taught us too much in practice. I am going to answer the questions in a number of blocks, according to what is often used from this place.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u19	I will not ask three questions on each block, but this seems essential to me. Mr Elias has given arguments as to why he wants BIT to be included in AZ. He then said that neither the Prime Minister nor BIT is responsible for the projects. That's what the ministries are gonna do. What is the Prime Minister on when he gets the BIT under him? After all, he must be open to something, otherwise the committee's recommendation is not so important. What's the prime minister on when he gets the BIT under him?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u20	He is appealing to the functioning of the BIT and in the way in which authority is given to the role that the Committee sees for that BIT. The Minister of Trade remains responsible for the project, but since BIT is established by law, ministers have committed themselves to the BIT's judgment. If the BIT says that a project should not be started in a particular department, then they will not start with it either. In such a case, they will have to come back one or two months later with a better thought-out story, in which there will be less later waste.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u21	At some point, that BIT judgment comes under indirect responsibility of the Prime Minister. Then there's approval and then a project starts. If the project then goes wrong, the fault always lies with the department, because that's what it did wrong. After all, according to the test it could have been performed properly. The Prime Minister is solely responsible for an institution that says something can go on. If it goes on and goes wrong, it's always the Ministry's fault.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u22	In fact, you're saying that BIT has misadvised.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u23	No. If the sensible BIT approves it under the responsibility of the Prime Minister and the project goes wrong, then the Prime Minister is not accountable. BIT said it could be done. The Ministry goes to work and then it goes wrong. By definition, therefore, the execution has gone wrong and not the judgment in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u24	Well, not necessarily. The BIT says that the farmers' understanding rules are fulfilled. The BIT says that thought has been given to what one wants to achieve. The BIT has asked the question whether there is a need for ICT at all. The BIT has considered whether the ICT is being bought from the board or is being developed with all the risks involved if it is needed. And I can go on like this for a while. They're actually pretty simple check questions. If the project starts after the study of the BIT and a six months later Mr Verhoeven forgets that the BIT comes back six months and a year later and takes a look at it, then it went wrong, then the minister of the department where the project is running is responsible, and not the Prime Minister. After all, it went wrong because the project principles and business justification, the business case, were not respected. It was said that they were going to do it and everything, but they did it differently. Mr Verhoeven and Mrs Gesthuizen asked questions about procurement and contract management. Both went into ways to align the interests of the supplier and the client. This committee recommends, among other things, that poor performing suppliers take account of their past behaviour and involve this behaviour in new procurement processes. Too often it has been found that a supplier fails in several respects in a project and sometimes even knowingly misinformed the client. Because of the current ban on the inclusion of results from the past, he can still be awarded a new, similar contract in a procurement process. The committee believes that such a situation cannot continue. Not only the client, but also the supplier, must suffer the consequences of poor performance. What are the consequences? During a procurement process, the offers are assessed on several criteria, such as price, quality, previous experience with similar projects and financial support from the company. The Committee proposes that the supplier's past performance should become one of these assessment criteria. This does not mean that a supplier who performs less than once will be excluded from subsequent assignments in advance. If this supplier can demonstrate that he has learned from the previous situation and will not make the same mistake anymore, he may indeed qualify for the contract if he scores well on the other criteria. In addition, the type of assignment should be taken into account when carrying out past results. If a supplier failed on a particular part of a previous contract, which is not included in the new project, that error should not be charged to him in the assessment of the new offer. Other ways of bringing the supplier's and the client's interests closer together are the introduction of a code of conduct for the client and supplier, the contractual establishment of bonus and penalty arrangements and of incentive arrangements where the client receives a bonus when making workable proposals for cost reduction or innovation. The "value engineering" clause "This is the first and hopefully the last time that professional jargon is used today" and public-private cooperation structures, as suggested by Mrs Gesthuizen, are tools to bring the interests together. The Committee has not worked out these options in detail, but recommends, above all, that this be looked at further and more closely. In the specific case of public-private constructions, it has become clear to the Committee that this is still not working enough within the ICT world to say whether it is a successful way of aligning interests. It is clear, however, that these structures are used successfully in other areas, such as roads and other infrastructure. The Committee therefore believes that the possibilities for public-private cooperation within the ICT world should be better explored. In his contribution on contract management, Mr Verhoeven specifically addressed the termination of a project. This question addresses one of the main problems of ICT projects, namely that they are muddled with failing projects for too long and that they are not dealt with in time. A basic concept of economic science is the idea of recessed costs. These are costs that have already been incurred and cannot be undone. When deciding to stop a project, such recessed costs should no longer be taken into account. It is one of the biggest pitfalls in making economic and financial decisions. It is important to look at the business justification, the business case, at that particular moment. At that time, do the costs to be incurred still outweigh the expected revenues? In other words: does it still make sense to continue with the project? I always call it homely the Citroën-DS problem. I once had a showpiece like that in my possession. I'd already gotten too many garage bills to get rid of him. The decision to do so is often far too late, so I speak from experience. In any case, the costs already incurred have been lost and at such a time the only thing that can be done is to ensure that there is no more unnecessary expenditure and that there is no more waste. Yes, that could lead to zero results being made at a high price. And yes, then you must be firmly in your shoes, if you have to make such a decision. For this reason, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is calling for the establishment of the BIT, which, with its sharp and objective judgements and advice, prevents it from being muddled.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u25	I assume the translation of "sunk costs" comes from Professor Renkema as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u26	Yes, no doubt!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u27	As an economist, of course, I fully agree with you, but the big problem is that things become very politically sensitive when there is a price tag on something. That's why I brought that up yesterday. At that time, I drew attention to the fact that the tolerance to make mistakes in large projects is almost zero, precisely for this reason. Is it not also part of the fact that we in the Chamber at some point face the fact that this money is "down the drain', to put it in good Dutch, and that we accept it? How are we going to organise this in ourselves? This also requires a certain courage from the Chamber to say that this has failed and now we are all going to stand for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u28	I quote myself a minute ago: "Yes, that can lead to zero results being achieved at a high price. And yes, then you must stand firmly in your shoes, if you have to make such a decision." The House must take this problem seriously and must take it for granted that it sometimes costs a high price. That is what is happening in business. Sometimes an ICT project says: "Stop! It has indeed cost 28 million, but we will stop now, otherwise it will cost 80 million!" As I said to the press in the presentation of the report, ICT is quite complex in itself. The problems in government are not so significantly different from those in business, but there is one important difference: cost awareness seems to be much higher in business than in government. So these kinds of decisions are made faster, also because they are easier. You said it yourself: the supervisory board in such a company consists of five, six or seven men or women, while we are here with 150 people and great political differences. Nevertheless, given the nature of the waste and the level of need, the Chamber must be given the opportunity to make such decisions. She's got to stand up for that, too. That is one of the reasons why we in the committee are so keen on cultural change. Yes, that will take time and that will mean that BIT will play an important role. I do not mention names, but if department A comes to the BIT with a plan and if it is finally fired because insufficient thought has been given to project management, department B will not come to the BIT with a similar plan the following week. Of course, these departments hear that from each other. This is the way to start the cultural change.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u29	I always have to let words work on me for a while. From the point of view of this, I believe that we need to look at ICT projects in a different way, with which I fully agree, and that you have a part to build and manage, just like on roads. I can't imagine if I've read this in the report, but do you propose such a divorce? You have a builder who builds a system, then someone is going to maintain it, and at the moment that extra costs arise because the construction has not gone completely well, we can in some way appeal to the builder and make sure that the manager does not pay for the costs in the end. I understand that it has gone wrong in certain projects in this way too.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u30	I agree. This is one of the reasons why the committee advises not to say "businesscase and done with Kees." If it is right, the business justification that the construction must satisfy is defined to ensure that the problems you mentioned do not arise during the management phase. This must also be taken back. In addition, the Committee believes that more should be done if necessary, without immediately waving the axe and issuing regulations. That is to say: you have done a wrong job and we are not going to pay a large invoice to be off the emmer, but we are going to hold you liable. The underlying story is not located somewhere at the bottom of a desk drawer, but it is extremely sharp and there are legal consequences if it is not delivered in accordance with the quality requirements agreed jointly in advance. I have come to the questions about more central management and a Ministry of ICT. Mr Verhoeven wondered how the committee saw a coordinating director on the ICT dossier. According to the Committee, an important step towards better coordination and better management of ICT within the government is to make one minister responsible for the general................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. This rather than the fragmentation of ICT responsibilities between the current Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations and the Minister for Housing and National Service. This minister, the only one, will be responsible for: 1. eGovernment, 2. ICT facilities for the management of the government and 3. the conditional policy for the control of the government's ICT projects. This minister will not only coordinate but will also be given perseverance to break the autonomy of departments and other government organisations where necessary and enforce the implementation of state-wide ICT policies. The Chief Information Officer Rijk will be covered by this minister. The Committee would like to see this ministerial division of labour reorganised as soon as possible. It is obvious, from a historical point of view, that the coordinating ministership of national ICT policy will lie with the Minister of Foreign Affairs. This largely meets Mrs Gesthuizen's wish to address ICT more centrally and prominently within the Empire. Mrs Gesthuizen's proposal to include the word "ICT" in the coordinating minister's job title, as the word "innovation" once entered the name of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Agriculture and Innovation, is certainly not rejected. Furthermore, all trade ministers remain responsible for their own ICT projects, even after the BIT has given its opinion on these projects. I was just talking about that with Mr Verhoeven. The Committee reiterates that it does not advocate a separate Ministry of ICT which is ultimately responsible for all ICT projects of the government. The committee does not see this as a workable solution and maintains the individual responsibility of each minister. Questions have been asked about the perseverance of the CIOs and the CIO Empire. Mr Van der Linde, like Mrs Gesthuizen, asked how the CDI's perseverance power relates to the perseverance power of the CIO. Furthermore, Mr Van der Linde wonders whether it will be possible for two ministers, namely the Minister of Trade for an individual project and the Minister of State responsible for the state-wide ICT policy, to be held accountable in the House of Representatives. First of all, the Committee calls for more perseverance from the departmental CIO by always making him or her a member of the board of directors. In addition, this CIO needs to be positioned differently; not within the management department anymore, but at the level of the Director-General, on the policy side. This strengthens the role of critical interlocutor for ICT projects on the policy side. In this task, they will be supported by the BIT's opinions. Secondly, the Committee does not propose that the CDI should be given more perseverance when it comes to managing ICT projects. According to the Committee, this additional power of perseverance for the CIO Rijk is especially necessary to make the management of the entire Empire more efficient through ICT. These are the first two ambitions of the final strategy. This gives the CIO Empire the opportunity to ignore the autonomy of other ministries or independent administrative bodies. The additional power of perseverance for the CIO Empire is a task that already lies with his ministry, his Minister for Housing and National Service. There is therefore no need for any other ministers to be called to account on this dossier. However, the Committee believes that the CIO Rijk should actually give direction to the national-wide project portfolio management, a good word that we would like to put at home at scrabble: managing and prioritizing a collection of ICT projects. He also needs to carry out more comparisons between national ICT projects. He, the CIO Empire, must therefore collect more data from all large and risky ICT projects and improve the quality and quantity of this data. This is of course also in the interest of a well-functioning BIT, because the CIO system must provide project data to BIT. The CIO Empire must use such a database to compare ICT projects and discover recurring failure and success patterns. That too is important, including for the Chamber. On the basis of this information, the CIO Rijk, in addition to the BIT, which has a control function mainly in the initial phase, will have the function of critical interlocutor in the later phase of the ICT project. The Committee therefore expects an extra effort from the CIO Empire to get the management of projects in better shape nationally, but it does not receive any additional perseverance. The Committee considers that the BIT's perseverance power in this area is sufficient. Questions have also been asked about the ICT ambitions of the government and the danger of ICT enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u31	I have listened carefully to the coordinating minister. In the model of the committee we descend. You have General Affairs with BIT, then a coordinating minister and then the trade ministries. Mr Elias was just not very careful in his words to explain why the Interior is not suitable for a number of functions. For example, there was a discovery ethic. Then why can that ministry have a strong coordinating role towards the other ministries? Why can't you and isn't it good to have the BIT underneath?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u32	I also said that, when it comes to the state-wide ICT policy, there have been positive initiatives over the last two or three years that we find encouraging. However, with regard to the suspension of BIT, we maintain our position.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u33	I can imagine that, but let us be equally realistic. I'd like to join the committee on that BIT. I really think it's important to set that up properly. Mr Elias says very firmly that it has to be under AZ. BZK is not an option, because that ministry has not fulfilled all kinds of things that should have been done under the IVR Decision since 1990. I read that, too. Then he says very nicely that the ministry is good enough for that important coordinating role. Let me look at the different responsibilities, the relationships between the different roles of those different ministries, and the power they have. I think it is important to think carefully about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u34	It is a bit like I said: project management has failed. The annex to our report states that this is really serious. However, general policy is getting off to a good start. That's what I've said before. It is not the intention that we should invest everything in the Ministry of General Affairs. With regard to policy and its tightening, let me put it this way. We were talking about the enthusiasm. Mr Fritsma wondered whether we should not go to a heavily thinned government, because a smaller government has a smaller automation need, and because automation projects within a less complex government itself will also be less complex. The Committee has not investigated the impact of a slimming government on the size and complexity of ICT projects. We do, of course, think that ICT helps to make the government work more efficiently. For example, P-Direkt, the staff and organisation system for state officials, finally reduced the total number of executive staff required from 1,500 full-time jobs to 740. So that's less than half. This means saving at least EUR 40 million on an annual basis. The great pitfall that the committee sees, and indeed the General Court of Auditors, is ICT enthousiasm in the government that regularly turns its head. ICT is often seen as an end in itself, as we described in the case of the tunnels at the A73. This was to include the latest, most exciting and innovative security system, while ICT must be a means of achieving a certain goal. This enthusiasm can lead to a project ultimately costing more than it brings. Another important point is the following. When ICT projects are properly implemented, the underlying work processes start to be reorganised and standardised before automating. Then you're doing it right. BIT rule 4 deals with that. Reorganisation and standardisation often leads to less complexity and more efficiency, as we have established. This is also in line with a question from Mrs Oosenbrug. In her input, she questioned whether ICT projects were not seen too often as technical projects much expected to be, while, of course, they were often large-scale change projects. The committee very much agrees with her on this point. ICT projects are often all changing projects. The committee even made the BIT rule for this and number four. We did this for a reason. Then I come to questions from Mrs Gesthuizen and Mrs Keijzer about the scheme of ICT organisations within the government. Mrs Gesthuizen would very much like an assessment of the savings that can be achieved by removing organisational elements. The committee must disappoint her in this respect. It has not reviewed the budgets of the organisational components of the scheme. Of course, Mrs Gesthuizen and Mrs Keijzer, too, would welcome the idea that the Minister should be asked in the debate with the cabinet to carry out an investigation into how to eliminate the ICT organisation as efficiently as possible. For, ladies and gentlemen, say for yourself: this scheme on page 70 of our report looks like shit. You have undoubtedly seen all this. It's worth studying with a magnification. In any case, when it comes to the organisation of that government, the National Commissioner for Digital Government can best indicate how to effectively award it in that part of the scheme. During a recent discussion by the committee with Mr Eenhoorn at his request, he indicated that he had ideas about this. Mrs Gesthuizen and Mrs Keijzer can also wait until the new coordinating ministership for national ICT policy has been completed and give this minister the equally thankful and clean task to untangle the ICT spaghetti. For example, he can immediately show that he is serious about improving the management structure of the national ICT file. Maybe he can respond to Mr Verhoeven's ideas that he should live up to what he stands for. I'm coming to the ICT dashboard. Mr Fritsma has asked who is politically responsible for throwing away so much tax money and whether politics has not been guilty of deception when it comes to the ICT dashboard, where the lights on every project are green. The committee wants to be very clear about this. You, I, everyone here in The Hague cheese tolp is responsible for this. We are collectively responsible for the failure of ICT projects in the government. In the first period, the Court has already established it. Many reports have been written on individual failing ICT projects and on the state-wide failing ICT policy, by the General Court, by the Gerkens and so on committee. The House of Representatives has done little with this, knowingly and knowingly. That is why, as a committee, we say that it is now five to twelve. What do I say, it's one for twelve. We hope that the House of Representatives will accept the whole package of committee recommendations for that reason. Mr Fritsma also referred to the deception of the ICT dashboard launched by the then Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations by Mr Donner on Responsible Day in May 2011. The committee was angry with Mr Fritsma about the ICT dashboard. That has been an unbelievable thing for years... unbelievable I said "unbelievable"; that is also the instrument where the lights in all the ICT projects of the government are constantly green. I have spoken harshly on behalf of the committee when presenting our report, but 'deception' is too big a word, the committee thinks. The underlying data on, among other things, the changing project budgets and planning can be found on the dashboard. The scoring method has only been chosen incredibly unhappy. The performance of the project is assessed on the basis of the recalibrates; read: the actualizations. But the Chamber has accepted all of this since May 2011. I'm just gonna say that again. We have all been blinded by the green headlights of the ICT dashboard. In his letter dated 12 November last, Minister Blok now has. indicated that he wants to change the character of the dashboard from normalizing to neutral informing, with less colors and more bare facts. The meters and the green scores disappear, I say homely. The committee does not believe that standards should be abolished, but that they should be improved. The always displaying green scores on the dashboard should therefore be released. It should actually show orange and red scores, unless a different standard is chosen. In addition, the Committee believes that the most important mistake of the Rijks ICT dashboard should also be addressed as soon as possible. It is only useful to show the costs and lead times of projects if the project size, measured in function points, is included. As long as it is not clear how big a software project is or needs to be, costs and lead time cannot be properly assessed. Mrs Oosenburg said that monitoring the business justification...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u35	I have a question for clarification. Every year between 1 and 5 billion in taxpayers' money was thrown away. That's huge. The question is therefore justified who can be called upon politically within the government. I share the analysis that there is something to blame for the Chamber and everyone else, but I think that in such a financial mispolicy, it is natural that people within the government should also be able to be called upon. Does the committee agree with that? If so, who should we focus on?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u36	As stated in the report, the main focus of the Committee's work is to solve the problems. It has therefore focused on the future in order to avoid this waste in future. The committee has seen that as its mission. She didn't go looking for guilty people. The committee has deliberately chosen not to do so, partly motivated by the analysis, which shows that everyone, including the Chamber itself, has allowed all this to happen. I would like to stress this once again. So let us stop doing so now and settle things better for the future. That is the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u37	With all due respect, I'm gonna keep finding that vague. I repeat, there is a financial disaster going on. Every year, 1 to 5 billion in taxpayers' money is thrown away. That's why you have to consider politically who to call on or who to call on. The committee says not to do so, so all the groups have to draw conclusions from the report themselves. Well, that's what they'll have to do. I have another question about the very concrete example of the ICT dashboard. On behalf of the PVV, I asked if the case wasn't misguided here. Projects that failed on all fronts just got an A. I thought the room was a wheel in front of the eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u38	I answered you as precisely as I could. You choose the word deception. That is your right, but the committee considers that to be too big a word. The data has been provided. They're just extremely badly presented. We have cracked hard notes on this, as I said on behalf of the committee. There wasn't a word of Spanish. Talking about it is not the custom of this committee. Anyway, there has been no deception.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u39	Luckily, I have a pretty good memory. And so I happen to know that I once asked questions about the Rijks ICT dashboard. I am very willing to put my hand into my own bosom, but at the moments when I have sent, I would like to have said so. The letter from Minister Blok states that he will come up with a comprehensive response to the report of this committee, which will also include the Rijks ICT dashboard. I do like the fact that the Minister, building on the committee's report, has already reacted proactively to this. I think we should stop the settlement culture...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u40	But that is not a comment to the committee, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u41	Also because of course we...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u42	I want you to ask the committee a question. You can post your comments to the Chamber in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u43	That's right. But I still want to respond, because the Chamber is being addressed to...
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u44	But that's what you do in second term. Now you can put a question to Mr Elias.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u45	Has Mr Elias overlooked this letter, or has it appeared after the report was issued?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u46	I just referred to that letter of 12 November 2014. That letter was indeed published after the report, since, as you know, we completed our report on 15 October. I have just responded in substance to the Minister's proposals and said that we are seeing something different here and there. But it is further up to your Chamber to continue with that. I would have stayed with the questions about the expertise and interests of officials. Mrs Oosenbrug said that the monitoring of business justification by clients is under-emphasised in our report. She is right to call attention to that business justification, also known as business cases. I am glad that she has raised this important issue once again. We do believe that we have paid quite a lot of attention to this in our report. In this context, Mrs Oosenbrug mentions the phenomenon of tacit project expansion. It is true that clients in large and risky ICT projects often fail to fulfil their responsibilities. They are responsible for the success or failure of a project. But with the arrival of the BIT they must learn to deal with that business justification, because the BIT forces it to be drawn up at the beginning and BIT checks that one year after the project started. To strengthen clients, the Committee also recommends that there be a structural ICT training programme for clients and project leaders. The prevention of project expansion and proper management of suppliers follows, because in order to be able to regularly update that business justification, good project management is of course essential. This means, among other things, that checks are always carried out, the extent to which the supplier is in compliance with the performance and the fulfilment of the contractual agreements. We were just talking about interrupting that it should not be put in a drawer and that it should be clearly defined in the agreements what you expect, whatever the suppliers should be kept under the nose. There are now too many ICT projects where the above does not happen. As a result, these projects will in fact become powerless, which we should not have, because then the budget will be considerably exceeded. We found the example given to us by Mr Leether, until recently a legal adviser to the Ministry of Security and Justice, to be very illustrative. He told us at a hearing on 12 May 2014 that many of his opinions did not reach the Minister. He said something about this which struck us: "I have seen a few major projects happen, even recently, that I see the Minister or in this particular case the Secretary of State operating in a particular project and then I think: it cannot be that he did not know my advice. I'm very sorry to hear that. Then why doesn't he know that? Because those who should inform him about that do not." That is how the report continues. That was extremely interesting. We find Mr Verhoeven's suggestion to set up a mobile ITC team (MIT) alongside the BIT particularly interesting. We will soon see some advantages in this Gideon gang, as Mr Verhoeven called it MIT. We ourselves always like to call these ICT guys the "boys with the reverse hats," although they are increasingly girls, but mostly without the hats. Such a mobile team makes it easier to deploy real ICT specialists quickly. In a department they may not have enough work, while in the entire Empire there is enough work. In addition, these specialists are in public administration and therefore, above all, loyal to the government. This comes in handy in the direction of the suppliers who support the projects. That was Mrs Oosenbrug's point. In this way, it will also be possible to act quickly in the event of incidents requiring ICTs, without the government being dependent on one or more suppliers. And if we are still philosophizing, I say to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of the committee, you could also use such a MIT against payment to independent administrative bodies or even other governments, such as municipalities. Mr Fritsma has asked what the committee thinks of the government's personnel policy. The committee has seen that the government must work hard to train its staff. It also believes that the public authorities should do more to exchange knowledge and that they should pay more attention to results. It is not for nothing that the Committee concluded that the government lacks learning capacity in the field of ICT: conclusion 10. These are all aspects of personnel policy on which we expect a significant step from the government. However, it goes too far to disqualify the entire staff policy of the government. This would require a review of personnel policy itself. The committee didn't do that. Our mission was generous enough. According to the Committee, a top five of other changes that have to be made within ministries in order to get the management of ICT projects in order is as follows. One. CDIs should give greater priority to the management of ICT projects. Two. The CDIs ensure that roles and responsibilities are clearly invested in the projects. Three. The CIO ensures that the government is more professional and involved as a client in ICT projects. Four. The performers and all management layers should provide their top officials and directors with realistic information on the progress of the project. Five. There will be a central and structural ICT training programme for clients and project leaders within the government. I come now to the question about the external hiring of Fritsma. External hiring occurs in all areas of government and not only in ICT projects. The Committee has not conducted a national survey on external hiring, but in the report it does make some observations about the hiring of externals in ICT projects. The Committee is certainly not against the hiring of externals in ICT projects by definition, but it believes that the numerical relationship between civil servants and hired staff should be balanced. In key positions in projects, officials and not externals should be appointed. The client must steer well on risks, such as the importance for externals to create additional work and extend hourly invoicing projects. MEP Verhoeven's proposal to set up a Mobile ICT team is also a good suggestion to reduce the dependence of external hiring on ICT projects. Then questions have been asked about the remuneration and career opportunities of ICTs in the government. Mr Van der Linde and Mrs Gesthuizen asked questions about the level of salaries of ICT workers, albeit from different angles. For the committee, the question is whether the salary is the only and most important motivation for ICTs to join the government. The complexity of ICT projects in the government can also be a good challenge. In any case, it would be useful for the committee to have this examined. If it turns out that ICTs need better salaries, the Committee believes that a solution must be found within the existing wage building. There are still possibilities for this. We have a strong impression that it is possible to find good ICTs for amounts that fall within the beaming standard. Mrs Gesthuizen's suggestion that the government in its own ranks should do more training is highly appealing to the Committee. In this way, the government itself can direct an increase in the supply of ICTs. Ms Gesthuizen's proposal fits well with the recommendations made by the committee on ICT knowledge in the government, namely a heavy training for clients and project leaders and a basic ICT training for all government officials. In fact, it seems to us desirable that the training of ICT users should also be looked at more widely outside the government in order to strengthen the Dutch knowledge-based economy. Mr Verhoeven will also make this suggestion. After all, he proposed a Mobile ICT team. The Committee wrote on page 141 of its report: "For individual civil servants, a good reward and career opportunities are positive incentives to deliver good performance. However, a stick behind the door is needed, so that they also feel the pain when they perform under the measure. The downside of career opportunities is that under-performance in a project hampers growth potential in the near future." The Committee is therefore very surprised by Mrs Keijzer's remark that an official who was put to non-active action by the Minister of Defence together with three other officials in mid-2014 due to distorted relations in the ICT chain at Defense would now be working through a secondment to the Dutch Healthcare Authority. That would be very bad. Nor is it clear what the committee intended with its recommendation on the remuneration of civil servants. It also seems to contradict what the Minister of Defence said about this during the general consultation on 2 July. She said: I want to exercise restraint, because it is about individuals. The committee will do the same. The Minister also said that I do not feel inclined to harm individuals, but I can say that there will be no advisory role. We have checked with the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport, but we have only been informed confidentially. This information came in while I was working on my answer, so I need to improvise. If there are any questions about this, the VWS committee will have to take this further. However, if Mrs Keijzer's signal is true, this is exactly what we should not do with the government. We don't have to reproduce a problem somewhere else. Questions have been asked about the ongoing projects. Mr Van der Linde asked how the current projects should be assessed in the light of the committee's recommendations. He mentioned an explicit example, namely the European Rail Traffic Management System (ERTMS). That's a new rail security system. We have listened carefully to the legitimate request of the Chamber. There are currently 22 large and risky ongoing ICT projects on the Rijks ICT dashboard. The Committee advises, heard the questions from the Chamber, to have all these projects examined as soon as the BIT is established and to inform the Chamber of the results. Each trade minister should then inform the permanent Chambers of what he or she will do with the opinion of the BIT per ongoing ICT project. Furthermore, in early July 2014, the Standing Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment already agreed to the launch of the ERTMS project. In vain, a motion was tabled to "organise the ERTMS process in such a way that the results of the temporary committee on ICT projects can be fully exploited by the government." This motion was rejected. On behalf of the committee, I can only say, "Room, look in the mirror." The Committee stresses that its report is not a panacea for all ICT problems. Nevertheless, the permanent Commission for Infrastructure and the Environment could reconsider the design of the ICT component of this rail project. In its replies to the written questions of the Chamber of 6 November 2014, the State Secretary for Infrastructure and the Environment announced that in her second progress report on this project she would indicate how she handled the recommendations of our committee and the cabinet response to them. It seems to the committee of interest to test the Chamber if it is right to consider the understatement that, after receiving this second progress report, the standing committee concerned should pay just as much attention to the ICT component in the intended design of this project. Mr Fritsma asked a question about the extent of the security risks caused by the failure of C2000. The Committee's investigation has shown that, following the entry into force of C2000, there have been major problems since 2005. There have been three, you are all undoubtedly well-known, large-scale and serious incidents: the polder crash of Turkish Airlines in February 2009, the attack in Apeldoorn during Queen's Day on 30 April 2009 and the out of control beach party in Hoek van Holland in August 2009. The Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations then set up an expert group in 2009. The expert group concluded at the end of 2009 that the coverage was insufficient, that the network was not yet stable and that the aid workers did not all use the network in the same way. That seems to be a risk to safety, we say to Mr Fritsma in particular. In 2010, the Minister started with ten improvement projects. It was outside the committee's research mission to see to what extent they were successful. This too, however, I would say that it is becoming monotonous that the Chamber itself should be on top of it and should take the control task seriously and carry it out. We are just a committee that tries to avoid problems in a more general sense. The Chamber must take care of that itself, every time. I come to a conclusion on behalf of the committee. All the recommendations we have presented in our final report must be seen as a coherent whole. It's a total package. Only if these measures are implemented together will they have the desired effect, the Committee thinks. The Committee stresses that the adoption of the recommendations is primarily up to the Chamber. She hopes that her opinion is clear and has actually heard it from the Chamber yesterday. When the government implements only a few measures and others do not, the committee provides for a repetition of past moves. Then there will again be no structural solution to the problems with ICT projects in the government, and as a Chamber, the committee fears, you will be able to organise a parliamentary survey in about five years to see why it has not been addressed again in 2014. Mr Verhoeven asked yesterday whether I was not somewhat gloomy about the value of our report in NRC-Handelsblad last Monday. On behalf of the committee, I say to him: quite the contrary. But he said it just as strikingly yesterday: the recommendations may sometimes be open doors, but please walk into those open doors as a Chamber and make sure that we do those logical things now. We call for ICT: an Intelligent and Competent Application of our recommendations. In addition to the great importance of the government realizing all the recommendations, the committee would particularly welcome the government's determination and decisiveness. In its response to the report, the Cabinet can already state that it is not only adopting a number of recommendations, but that the government has even taken action to implement them. The implementation of the other recommendations can then be planned by the Cabinet. This is the committee's main recommendation and also the basis of the overall package of recommendations, the creation of the BIT. That's clear. This BIT should be established as soon as possible so that it functions preferably before 1 April 2015 and can review new and ongoing ICT projects. Some other recommendations, including recommendations 3, 4, 5, 7 to 15, 20 and 21, can be implemented even without too much effort as of 1 January 2015. You will hear it correctly: on 1 January next. This can also be done at the same time as the first improvements in the Rijks ICT dashboard, which we have just talked about, announced by the cabinet. This will also take place on 1 January 2015. In addition, there are a number of recommendations on the procurement policy of ICT projects, which should be incorporated as soon as possible in the amendment proposal to the Council of Ministers in early February 2015. The latter is for the purposes of the adaptation of the Procurement Act for April 2016. There must be some speed, as far as we are concerned, across the board. The Committee assumes that during this cabinet period the Committee for Housing and Rijksdienst will keep an eye on whether all recommendations are adopted and implemented in practice. Our committee strongly advises the Committee for Housing and Rijksdienst not to look at what has become of the BIT and the other recommendations in a year and a half, but to be on top of this. A half-yearly monitoring of progress is more interrupting, as we have already mentioned. The Committee also assumes that the cabinet will report the timetable of implementation to the Chamber shortly after this plenary debate, preferably before Christmas. We also believe that the cabinet should keep the Chamber informed about progress. In this way, the Chamber is able to keep a firm finger on the wrist. We were not here this afternoon in front of the Chamber, but that is how we feel, together on the eve of a change in thinking and acting on ICT projects. It's now or never.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u47	Thank you. This brings to an end the first deadline for the committee's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u48	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday and today, we talked in detail about abuses in the field of ICT. The first conclusion was: politics, look at yourself. Then we also looked at the official culture. We have also talked extensively about the basics of ICT. These basics are just: more of those good ICTs, which the Empire already has a lot of, powerful project management and better clientship. The latter is therefore an immediate task at the official summit. The official summit is in the Committee's view, quite rightly, also of the CIOs. If you ask me for a good translation of that, I would say "head data stream" or something like that. I'm just trying. I have heard broad support for the work of the committee. In the conclusions there are still some points of elaboration, but there is no doubt about the direction we should all take. That is why I have tabled a motion on behalf of all the spokesmen present. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the mandate of the Chamber to the Temporary Committee on ICT Projects in the Government;]] [[Considers that this committee has carried out a thorough investigation and presented its findings in a clear report;]] [[expresses her gratitude and appreciation for this;]] [[endorses the spirit of the committee's 34 recommendations;]] [[Notes that the report provides a good basis for an exchange of views with the Government;]] [[calls on the Government to respond and to indicate how the 34 recommendations of the Commission can be operationalised, implemented and monitored,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Linde, Mr Oosenbrug, Mr Gesthuizen, Mr Fritsma, Mr Keijzer and Mr Verhoeven.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33326-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u49	Then we already have a whole list of discussion points with the cabinet. I'll follow the order of the committee. I'll start with the BIT. We, too, look forward to the debate on suspension. I heard the Minister right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u50	You mean Mr. Elias?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u51	Excuse me. I mean the chairman of the committee. You'll be in your reflexes soon when you're standing here. I heard the committee right. After all the work she's done, she wants BIT to have most of it under General Affairs. Let me say first of all that the problem-solving is the most important thing. Honestly, I think that placement is a matter of effect. I have also heard very well that the committee is opposed to BIT being placed under Finance or Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations. If the cabinet has a better alternative to that, of course we'd like to hear it. We shall ask the same question. More important to us is the question of examining motions, own-initiative laws and amendments. I am glad that the committee accepts the suggestion. Now, of course, it is important that we also get a view from the cabinet, because the cabinet would be given the opportunity to review motions. I have a motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Temporary Committee on ICT Projects has made a proposal to the public authorities to have an ICT Examination Office (BIT) advise on motions, amendments and initiative legislative proposals;]] [[considers that this advice should be purely from a state-law point of view;]] [[In its response, the Government requests that the committee's recommendation be understood as meaning that:]] [[motions, amendments and proposed own-initiative legislation may be submitted to the BIT at the applicant's request through the Chamber's Legislation Office;]] [[directors may ask the BIT directly for an opinion on motions, amendments and proposals for own-initiative legislation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Linde. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33326-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u52	I understand very well why Mr Van der Linde is tabling this motion. Of course, he's a little ahead of something that's not there yet. Can Mr Van der Linde explain why he does that?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u53	As I have heard, this is a small amendment to the committee's recommendations. I do, of course, want this small, nuanced change to be taken into account when the cabinet responds to all the recommendations. That explains the wording. Of course, I am not going to sort out everything that we are going to decide on in our own Rules of Procedure. It is nice that the committee also discuss procurement and contract management, and especially the point of fitting performance. It seems to us that there is already a good system in place, with a weighting in the tendering procedure. Then you can just hang a price tag on a good performance from the past. What is important here is that we make the recommendations of the committee measurable and checkable again, otherwise it will be stuck somewhere in the air. Anyway, let's ask the Cabinet to do that. As far as the responsibility of the CIO and CIO Empire is concerned, and how it is mixed up, I still have a bit of a problem with the question of which ministers we are going to call to account for this. One is about the broad lines, the framework and can shut down projects, the other is about implementation. I understand that distinction; that's how I made it myself. But the problem is that in the case of projects where things go wrong, those responsibilities come together. So we run the risk of having to call two ministers to account, with all the complications of that. The ICT dashboard touches part of our work, the work of the Chamber. As I said yesterday, we should always keep asking ourselves three questions: what can we do? How much can it cost? When does it have to be ready? Those are the three basics. But when, of course, we ourselves, whether or not at the request of the Minister, increase a budget or push the deadline a bit back, those meters will automatically shoot green again. That is of course as if you shoot your own car, with or without a steering wheel, with gasoline and the meter again green. I hear the chairman of the committee telling us to get rid of those meters. But isn't it much more important that we stick to the principles that we formulate at the very beginning? 'Cause then you'll be able to handle those little meters. Internal and external hiring has been spoken of wisely. We, too, feel very strongly about Mr Verhoeven's MIT. At all, working with a flexible shell in the government is an excellent idea. Only there did the committee add something to which we would like to point out, namely the use of the MIT in other governments against payment. We then run pretty hard against the Market and Government Act, and that's one thing with the VVD. However, the chairman of the committee knows this, and so does the other chairman. The question of how all this fits within the Top Income Standards Act is with great pleasure to ask the Cabinet again when we talk about it. One question from the written round of questions, namely the question of a car without a steering wheel, is somewhat unsatisfactory. TU Delft, the National Road Traffic Agency and Connect are working with state aid on the Dutch Automated Vehicle Initiative. That's a car without a steering wheel. I invite the committee to reflect in detail at this place.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u54	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the committee for the clear answer, the open exchange of views and the sometimes solid debate. I'm tasting broad support in the room for a bite-bit bite bite bite. We probably do not fully agree on the content, but I do not think that the debate should end today. I think we should continue with each other. This report is really a nice guide to continue debating with each other. I think it is very good for the Chamber to put their hands in its own right at the moments when it is right to do so. That's what we're here for. I also welcome the committee's recommendation on the adjustments that are desirable with regard to the ARBIT. I shall table the next motion, partly on behalf of my colleague Van der Linde of the VVD. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas new general procurement conditions for ICT, ARBIT, are only recently being implemented;]] [[having noted that the Temporary Committee on ICT Projects notes with the public authorities that some adjustments to the ARBIT are desirable in order to align with the Committee's conclusions;]] [[noting that this could lead to the inclusion of a code of conduct, the linking of hourly rates to performance obligations and the inclusion of escape clauses and modification procedures;]] [[calls on the Government to address in its response to the report of the Temporary Committee the desirability of amending the ARBIT and the manner in which it is implemented,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Oosenbrug and Mr Van der Linde. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33326-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u55	I started my thanksgiving. You usually end up with that, of course. Because I think the report is a start, I close by saying: we're just moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u56	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the committee. I mean the entire committee, including the staff and all the people who have worked on support over the last two years. I think they've done a very good job. That has been said even before this debate and now, after the debate, I can only confirm it. I had asked some reasonable questions, some of which were answered in writing. The written answer, at least as far as the clarity of the answers is concerned, is also entirely satisfactory, for which I would like to thank you. I think we have discussed a number of issues well together, as a start to the debate on the recommendations and their implementation with the Minister. I continue to welcome the fact that the committee says at the same time that it is not panacea for all problems with ICT in the government. That's the modesty you always have to impose on yourself. At the same time, it is a total package. Take that whole total package and don't take any part of it out. That remains a very clear message to the Chamber. In my contribution to second term, I will take a few things out of it myself. I agree with the committee that many of the recommendations can be implemented directly because of their practical nature and do not require all kinds of political decision-making. I think that's right. Many recommendations can be made on 1 January, as Mr Elias said. First of all, I'm going to go into the BIT. The BIT is just a good idea. I'm sure it'll be there, too. That is already a very clear profit from this debate. The committee has been able to reassure me clearly about my democratic concerns about the primacy that must remain with politics. Mrs Gesthuizen asked very carefully about the time of the opinion. I fully agree with her, and I will continue to be hard on that. In advance, it seems difficult to me. These are all points on which we can make a specific point. I saw that there might be stimuli in it. Anyone who is suspicious could see a vehicle whose coalition or certain parliamentary groups say, for example, that you did not take a BIT test or ask for BIT advice, so we vote against the motion. I am still somewhat concerned about this, but I can see that the committee does not want to go so far as to put pressure on democracy. We've talked extensively about the placement of the BIT. I think we can agree on a number of things. It shouldn't come under the Treasury. That is perfectly clear. From my suggestion to hang it under Home Affairs or Housing and National Service, the committee says with a number of arguments: we do not like that, so for us General Affairs remains. I ask the committee once again: how and on what exactly is the Prime Minister, the Minister of General Affairs, accountable? What exactly is his responsibility? I'm afraid you'll have the next situation. There is a BIT opinion under the ultimate responsibility of the Prime Minister, but the BIT and the Prime Minister are not responsible at the time when the trade ministries start implementing the projects. Then you create something like: we have given an approval stamp, so if it goes wrong, it's your fault. But it can also just not be properly tested by the BIT in advance, because BIT can also make mistakes. That remains at the heart of my concern about the position of General Affairs. Mr Elias is not concerned about precedents. Regulatory pressure is indeed a billion-dollar issue, I say to the committee. We solve regulatory pressure through Actal, which just hangs under EZ. For new growth, which could yield billions, you could also create something. It is always said that it should be under the Minister for Economic Affairs, not under the Prime Minister. So there are indeed billions of precedents, I say to the committee, where a similar balance is made differently. Thinking never stops at D66. We will be happy to continue thinking about the good suspension of BIT, under AZ, under BZK or WR. It might as well be independent. That's an idea you might want to think about. So as far as I'm concerned, we're thinking about it. Coordination is another point on which the committee has gone into detail. I found the answer somewhat less firm or firm than I am used to from this committee and this committee chairman. When I asked Mr Elias why BZK wasn't good enough to hang the BIT, but good enough to give the coordination role, I expected a little more conviction. I would therefore like to ask Mr Elias again on that point. I find it strange that BZK can be the coordinating ministry, but the BIT cannot hang underneath it, because it does not have a good track record since 1990 and there is not a good culture. Finally, I would like once again to pay tribute to all practical recommendations. With the dashboard, we can get started right away. Better organisation of procurement is already possible within the existing law. It is nice, positive and nice to hear that both the VVD group and the committee see something in the MIT, a mobile ICT team in the government. I will not come back to that now by means of a motion; I will do so later. I am pleased to hear that this is being looked at positively. The committee has proved its worth by dealing with the complex issue of ICTs, which is always surrounded by an air of complexity. I also said it yesterday: I think that is a very sensible and very bold approach. It's something complicated, all of which experts and specialists say they're the only ones who know it. Surely it takes some guts to say: start with some basic ideas. That's peasant logic. I do not think we could have thought of some of the recommendations; we certainly could have thought of them all. But the committee has stressed very well that we must also implement and follow them. That is a very important signal to the House of Representatives. I compared the committee's input yesterday with an ICT project, because there was some progress, because there was a bit more work, because sometimes the process did not always go well, but I have to say that the outcome of this project is very satisfactory and, in that sense, very different from an average ICT project. I should like to congratulate the committee on this. I thank the Chamber for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u57	Mr. Chairman. I'm very short of dust. It was a very pleasant debate, especially since, as the chairman of the committee pointed out, the Chamber was not opposed to the committee, but the Chamber and committee were on their side, at least to a large extent. I am particularly looking forward to the debate with the government. What does the committee recommend to the Chamber when it comes to that debate with the government? In the first term, I have already indicated that I believe that all the committee's recommendations are worth being taken seriously and implemented. I have received a hand-out from the committee when it comes to the designation, to include the term ICT in the name of a ministry or at least in the terms of reference of a ruler. I would like to thank the committee very much for its hard work. Once again, I am particularly looking forward to the debate with the government on this interesting report.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u58	Mr. Chairman. I thank the committee for the answers and for the very good work that has been done with the research. I too can be brief, because it is now a matter of how the recommendations are formulated. We'll talk to the government about it. Of course, the government has some explaining to do. I refer to a statement by the chairman of the committee, who was again in the newspaper a few days ago: the Ministry of the Interior has shown an unforgivable passivity in guiding ICT policy in the Empire. So there are just some hard nuts to crack. This also applies to decisions that we still have to take, for example on BIT and its suspension. The PVV Group is convinced of the importance of placing it in General Affairs, given the enormous problems and the urgency of resolving them. Such an agency deserves independence. We will use the recommendations as a guide for the debate with the government, which we look forward to.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u59	I give the floor to Mr Geurts, who is replacing his colleague Mrs Keijzer. She is currently debating another subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u60	Mr. Chairman. Indeed, my colleague is still stuck in another debate. I'll file one motion. By way of introduction, I repeat a sentence from Mrs Keijzer's first term: 'The committee concludes that the problem of managing ICT projects is so large and structural that drastic measures must now be taken'. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the government must act in a radical and decisive manner in order to get its ICT projects under control;]] [[considers that responsibility for this should lie with the Prime Minister, as this concerns general government policy;]] [[calls on the Government, in accordance with the recommendations of the Temporary Committee on ICT Projects, to set up an ICT Review Office (BIT) under the Ministry of General Affairs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Geurts and Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33326-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u61	I realize that Mr Geurts may have an information deficit. Is the thrust of the motion that BIT should be established before we have discussed this issue with the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u62	The chairman of the committee gave this opinion in his first reply. It is now up to the Chamber to confirm this. As my colleague Keijzer pointed out in the first term, this recommendation from the ICT Committee is one of the most important, if not the most important. That is why we are tabling this motion and we are happy to hear a response to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u63	I will not go into any further questions, because I understand that Mr Geurts is not in a position to do so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u64	I find that difficult, Mr Van der Linde, because Mr Geurts is standing here and may therefore also be questioned about the motions on which we shall vote next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u65	I do not intend to tackle the CDA Group seriously, but I would like to make a request to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Last week we debated the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Housing Corporations. The CDA was very critical of the report. That was fine. Now the CDA says that this measure should be taken over in its entirety. It's fine, too. It's all possible. I have one problem. My group still needs time to think about the organisation of BIT and its placement. In addition, we would like to have the debate with the cabinet. We believe that Mr Geurts' motion is premature and will therefore vote against it. Because she doesn't give us room for other options. This may also apply to other parties, and the motion is therefore losing its strength. I would suggest to Mr Geurts that we hold the motion, which would allow more room to make the thrust of the motion come true one day.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u66	I have heard Mr Verhoeven's second-term considerations and hesitations, as well as the question of why he does or does not do things. I don't have to repeat them, because he knows his own words better than I do. The CDA Group has made a different assessment and that is why we have tabled this motion. I have already said this to Mr Van der Linde. We're free to do this. I'm sure we'll listen to our colleagues very carefully. Their impressions about the motion are included in our deliberations.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u67	That's nice. I hope this happens before Tuesday. I do not know whether Mr Geurts will be able to answer the question as to why the CDA Group is so firm and does not need any reflection time to make this choice. Is it no longer open to debate with the government about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u68	The CDA Group is, of course, always open to debate with the government. I regret that Mr Verhoeven disqualified me immediately by pretending not to have eaten too much cheese. I tasted that from his words. I indicated how we are in it right now. I also said that we heard in the first place that the chairman of the committee considered this to be a very important recommendation. We have taken it as one of the most important, if not the most important. That's why I tabled this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u69	Now it's going to be a personal attack. I am trying to spare Mr Geurts a bit because Mrs Keijzer is prevented, but I find it very strange to table a motion when there is an important subject that everyone thinks we should discuss with the cabinet in detail. For that reason, the VVD will not support the motion. I regret that, because the committee has put two years of work into this. If we vote against it, we will signal that we never want it to happen again, when it is still an open question for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u70	That is a clear response from the VVD Group. I have already said after the interruption of the D66 Group that the CDA will always think. I take these comments to the group. You will see what happens next Tuesday at the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u71	On this point, I would say, for my part, that I think it would be very sensible for Mr Geurts to withdraw or retain the motion. I get the feeling that the CDA Group suddenly doesn't know how it works when it comes to discussing parliamentary investigations. I can't imagine. There are plenty of people who do. If that's not the case, it gives me a bit of a dirty taste in my mouth. I do not understand why Mr Geurts is completely losing the credits, which the group does have, because she and the SP have been at the cradle of parliamentary research. At least that's what's happening in my eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u72	I have heard your words on this point. The motion has already been tabled and I cannot therefore comply with that request. I have just told the spokesmen of the VVD and D66 that we will weigh up the consideration you give us as a group. We're gonna talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u73	I would like to join the other colleagues because I think this is a shame. We have discussed BIT extensively. I feel a general urgency for BIT in this Chamber. We do not yet agree on the place where BIT should be placed with a bite. That is what we have discussed with each other. I can already tell you that I will advise my group to vote against this motion. I regret that, because I may want to put the BIT under AZ in a while, and then I get the blame: yes, but you voted against our motion earlier! I do not like games, but ask you sincerely: please keep that motion and submit it when the time is right!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u74	I'd almost say this is an emotional appeal, but I don't want to use that term. We are also taking this call on this point. Finally. As the last speaker in this debate, I should like to thank the chairman, the Members and, of course, the committee for the great work they have done.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u75	Mr. Chairman. Of course, we thank Members for their second term contribution. If you don't mind, I'd like to start with the motions. It may be unusual, but it might help.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u76	You decide the order.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u77	The first is the general motion, signed by so many. The motion is addressed to the government. The committee cannot formally respond to this, but of course it appreciates the thrust of this motion. However, I would like to look at the President for the general way in which we should deal with motions addressed to the cabinet, because there will be a few more.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u78	In general, I can say that we keep the reverse order of motions put forward by the Chamber during a debate with the government and which the Chamber submits to itself or to the Bureau. I will ask the government if it can respond to these motions in writing before the votes so that the Chamber has an appreciation of the motions before it votes on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u79	This means that the cabinet will react in writing before the vote. This brings with it another point, which I shall, however, deal with in a subsequent motion. The second motion tabled by Mr Van der Linde is also a request to the cabinet, but I would like to say something about it. The cabinet may not agree with the substance of any motions either, so I will be careful. In the motion a request is made to the cabinet, but it should actually be a request to the Bureau. This question concerns the Chamber itself. If it would be a request to the Bureau, which it may be, I can say on behalf of the committee that it agrees with this, given that it has 'contested' with the Chamber on the matter of advice. The committee argues that in the end they are only advice, even if they would come directly from the BIT. If, however, the Chamber wishes to regulate this in this way, it has the full agreement of the committee, but then it must be settled with the Bureau.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u80	As chairman of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, I do have to endorse this view of the Chairman of the Temporary Committee on ICT. When the motion was tabled, I had the impression that it might also have to be addressed to the Chamber. However, I can imagine that the Chamber would also like a reaction from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u81	Both of you, then. Can I change the text before the sitting?
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u82	We will see how we are going to do that, because the text must then be correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u83	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u84	Then the motion will be changed later.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u85	To the left or to the right, the scope of the story is underlined by the committee by the common approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u86	All this, of course, under the assumption that there will be a BIT. If there is no BIT, this motion will lapse. That is of course also important for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u87	Yes, but the committee estimates that BIT will be there anyway, given both the first and the second term of the Chamber. There is only discussion about where it is to be hanged.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u88	I thought that Mr Van der Linde tabled this motion in order to strengthen the cabinet's response to the point he wanted to make. That's why I think it's a fine motion. The government can then respond to the idea of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u89	I understand that some fine grinding will take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u90	If the motion is amended, there will also be a request for the Court's working methods to the Commission. The motion cannot then be put to the vote, as there must be a first reaction from the Commission to the procedure, in accordance with the amended Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u91	Caramba! It's complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u92	That's what you do with procedures sometimes!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u93	I am simply withdrawing the motion and I assume that the Acts of this sitting will end up with the government and that the government will take this point with it. Then we have solved the problem and hopefully this winter we can just pick it up in our conversation with the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u94	The request may always be submitted directly to the Commission for the procedure. We don't need a motion for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u95	Then that's what we'll do.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u96	Since the Van der Linde motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u97	The motion in part No. 10 by Mrs Oosenbrug and Mr Van der Linde are also addressed to the cabinet, and that is what we have already defined. The motion is, however, welcomed by the committee if I may say anything about it unsolicited and seen as a support in the back of the committee's recommendations. The Geurts/Keijzer motion in part No. 11 is also addressed to the cabinet, but knowing how political hares run and persisting on the line as the committee put forward this afternoon, we have the cautious assessment that, if there is a reaction from the cabinet before the votes, it could be counterproductive. I have heard Mr Geurts say a few times 'I take that into account' and I hope he will also take our reaction into account in his deliberations.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u98	I certainly do not want to run the risk that the chairman of this committee will not be able to sleep tonight because of this issue. The CDA also attaches importance to an open discussion and we will therefore continue this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u99	At the request of Mr Geurts, I propose his motion (33326, No. 11), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u100	In addition, a number of questions were asked in the second term, the most pressing of which was, of course, Mr Verhoeven's question without bumping the other Members. He said he saw a weak moment in the chairman's operation, because why should BZK be allowed to coordinate, but should BIT not be included? Let me summarize this briefly. I'm gonna try to recapture myself. The BIT is about the test of ICT projects. On that point, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has left it behind in recent years. I have stressed the fact that BZK has done far and far too little with the 1990 decision all these years. Other parts of the coordinating role have been well picked up by the Ministry, although not fast enough. That is what the committee has said, and we are encouraging the cabinet. The I strategy of the Empire consisted of three aspects. 1. Coherence in ICT facilities and infrastructure. 2. Create a platform for time- and place-independent work, so that you can get started anywhere in the department or at home or anywhere. 3. See where it went wrong in getting big and risky projects in order. Indeed, I did not mention the decisive argument when Mr Verhoeven interrupted me on this point. We have said for Finance, just as domestic and quite immediately: don't bring that down now, because then the proportions become blurry when it comes to controlling what is happening at the Tax Office. The same situation is, of course, very common with BZK. Two of the BZK's projects have been investigated and we have come to shocking conclusions here and there. The modernisation of the Municipal Basic Administration, called mGBA in the walk, and the C2000 project, which has also passed a number of times today, are in the house. So that is the same as for Finance, namely that the butcher is going to do a bit of inspection of his own meat and we are not of that kind. Mr Van der Linde said that the use of BIT by other governments is contrary to the Market and Government Act. There he has a point, albeit I do not want to go into party politics, which, when dealing with that law, the then spokesperson of the VVD pointed out that the way forward for that law is so great that it really does not mean anything. I remember that group voting against that law at the time. The question remains whether the problem that Mr Van der Linde has outlined will arise de facto, but it is good that he points it out. This will be looked at in the consultation with the cabinet. This also applies to Mr Verhoeven's mobile brigade, the MIT. It is a nice idea and worth picking up, because there are good and useful elements in it. We see opportunities and benefits, but there will undoubtedly be disadvantages, as always. However, let us look at that part of the glass that is half full and not begin to say what is half empty and why it should not be possible. It's a nice idea, but I'm sure there's still hooks and eyes on it. We'll find them in the effects. Mr Verhoeven asked what the Prime Minister could do if a project went wrong after the opinion of the BIT. That's how I understand his question. The Prime Minister I am trying once more, perhaps even a little sharper, is in our view responsible for the quality, independence and continuity of BIT. If, after positive advice from the BIT, a project still fails in its implementation, it may be up to two things. Or the trade minister did not properly implement the opinion of the BIT. In that case, the trade minister will come back to cut. That was the answer I gave. Or BIT's advice was wrong, bad and so on. That then affects the quality of the BIT; that is clear. If this happens systematically, I think that this is a real line, then the Prime Minister should be held responsible for this. With regard to the dashboard, Mr Van der Linde made another remark, which I would like to sum up in a domestic way: we have to get rid of the meters, but shouldn't we stick more closely to the starting points? Again, it is not black and not white. Yes, on the one hand it is important to always keep the initial situation in mind and to see how things have turned out in relation to the initial situation. The aim is to get rid of that strange anomaly that only the last part of the project is measured, after which the lights turn green when there is improvement. I take it that is the reasoning that Mr Van der Linde puts underneath. It's shared by the committee. On the other hand, if a project lasts a year or four or five and after a year or two or three it actually takes a different direction, there is no point in continuing to test it against the original principles. Here too, the instrument needs to be better adapted to what the real situation is. That's what it's all about in the end. The committee says, without wishing to prescribe it, that these projects are often cut into small pieces, because then they are clear. That is not necessarily necessary, but that aside. That Mr Van der Linde wants more attention to be paid to what was originally intended, the committee seems only right. This is also discussed in the elaboration of the dashboard with the minister concerned. I believe that I have answered the technical questions. I come to Mrs Gesthuizen, who asked: what advice do you give us in the debate with the cabinet? Yeah, why wouldn't you ask us for that advice? The committee believes that it would be nice if the Chamber could move the cabinet in the same way as the Chamber itself did in the debate with our committee yesterday and today. Hard notes have been cracked, including the way in which the Chamber itself has left things and has not functioned. It seems to me to be of great importance, also from our general and repeatedly expressed point of view, that you first have to identify a problem clearly and clearly before you can solve it, that the cabinet also sees what has gone wrong here. The situation is that in certain projects I am not going to call all the names, dates and I know what is said 'yes, yes, we are going to stop; it cost 43 million, but actually it went pretty well' must stop. They're gonna have to stop sometime. We have to stop pretending that it actually went well, if something like that is wasted. We must dare to stop projects, even if money has already been invested, even though we have had this discussion before. I refer to the French automobile problem. I mean the old DS and not the current situation in France. Mr Van der Linde wanted us to give a detailed reflection on the development of a car without steering. I understand what the underlying question is. I was in one of those cars when I was a traffic spokesperson. It's terrifying, and it's not gonna work for a couple of years. Let's not take that chance. I believe that I have come to the end of the second-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u101	I can inform you that I will ask the Cabinet to respond to the requests made in the motion for a resolution on item No. 8 and in the motion in part No. 10. I will also ask the government to send that response to the requests to the Chamber by Monday at the latest, so that you can take that into account in your considerations before the vote on Tuesday. I will pass on the stenogram of this part of the meeting to the cabinet. I should like to thank the committee. With this debate and the last words that the chairman of the committee has just spoken, we have come to the end of the debate with the Chamber on the report Towards ICT grip. In my view, the subject of the report is still far from over. "No" is already being called out of the hall. All Members of Parliament have already expressed their gratitude and appreciation for the work and report of the committee. I would like to add my heartfelt thanks and appreciation to those words of appreciation. I would also like to thank the chairman of the committee specifically, because I know that he has drawn a great deal of attention to bringing this project to its conclusion. Of course, I am also addressing the second row in Box K........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Thank you very much on my behalf too!
ParlaMint-NL_2014-12-11-tweedekamer-9.u102	On motions which have not been held or withdrawn, the motions in part No. 8 and Item No. 10, will be voted on next Tuesday.
