ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6754	Members, honored guests, I am opening the 5th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests, besides MPs, were invited to attend today's session of the House of Representatives and members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency. Members of the Presidency are present: Dragan Čović and Sulejman Tihić and I welcome them on behalf of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives and thank you for the response to today's session. There are also members of the Council of Ministers who I also welcome representatives of the OHR, the OSCE, the European Union, the European Monitoring Mission, representatives of the BiH Embassy who have expressed interest in monitoring the work of the Parliamentary Assembly, a representative of the UN Mission to BiH. I welcome them all. Here is also the chairman-in-Office, the newly appointed chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić, whom I also welcome. I welcome, therefore, all present and media representatives as well. Today's session is attended by 40 out of 42 MPs, so we have conditions for work and full-time decision-making. They announced their absence from the session: Jozo Križanović and Vinko Zorić and they are justly absent. You, ladies and gentlemen, have received a draft agenda in the invitation for today's session. As you have seen, the session has also been convened in accordance with Article 115. The rules of procedure of this house. Before the start of the session, the extended College of this House and the General College, which are the chairmans, the first and second vice presidents and presidents of the clubs of all political parties, agreed that today's agenda looks like this: 1. Confirming the appointment of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers; 2. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Import and Export of Arms and Military Equipment under Article 105. The rules of procedure of this house; 3. The request of MPs Šefik Džaferović, Borislav Paravac and Bariša Čolak to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Citizenship of BiH under Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives; 4. Giving consent to ratification of the BiH-SR-Yugoslavia dual citizenship treaty. 2 So, compared to the original agenda, which you received in the invitations, the agenda is complemented by these two points, those are points 3 and 4, because in the procedure, in the Parliamentary Assembly, the House of Representatives received a double citizenship agreement between BiH and the SR Yugoslavia, and then we decided at the session of the Extended College that, therefore, the law on amendments to the Law on Citizenship should now be a new law, because we set out the previous law for it. Now three MPs, i.e. the College, have decided to propose a law amending the Law on Citizenship, practically with the same content as that law. This is just one formal technical question and I'm asking you to understand it that way. As I told you, the extended college in the cleanup is entering, so the chairman, vice presidents and presidents of all political parties' clubs have agreed to this agenda. However, I am obliged by the Rules of Procedure to open a wrinkle on the agenda. Does anyone want to talk? Mr Ibrahim Đedović, then Mr Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6755	Gentlemen Chairman, honourable members of the Presidency, fellow MPs, Mr. Chairman said twice to the Expansive College, the president of all clubs. I want to go ahead of the DNZ Club, the BOSS and Work for a better time to say publicly that we're not invited to that meeting at all and I pray that it doesn't happen again, otherwise, we don't have anything against the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6756	I thank you, Mr. Đedović, believe me, that my request to the Secretariat was from the Expanded College. The people of the Secretariat know well what the Expansive College is, and you could have been uninformed solely because of some, let's say, technical details, you couldn't possibly have been informed because of the essentials. So you were also the president of your club invited. I don't know how the sekretarijat was communicating with club members. True, it is true that you were not present at the General College session, and thank you for having no objection to the agenda proposal. Mr. Špirić asked for a word. Here you go. The word has an MP, Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6757	Gentlemen of the chairman, esteemed fellow Members of the BiH Presidency, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, Yes, in any case, the College is taking care of the Rules of Procedure, we would probably enter into the more intensive work of this House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It seems to me it would be good to agree that he is the Rules of Procedure until we change him to the sacred letter of this House, if we want to work in accordance with the law and the Constitution. The other thing is, we started acting at the very beginning like we had an American budget ahead of us, so here we are, waving five times in the last 20 days, and we haven't passed a single law. But I don't think the efficiency of this house is going to be measured by the number of sessions held but by the number of laws adopted. And what I'm trying to say is, basically, that last time I did 3 when it came to the law, amendments and additions to the Law on Citizenship and ratification of the dual stateship agreement with Yugoslavia, I proposed a agenda just like this to have two important documents. And what happened? This house was haunted by some barren defiance, so now we're in a position to offer this same agenda out of the Rules of Procedure, but this isn't a business thing right now. I am because, therefore, I am because of the adoption of amendments and amendments to the Law and I am in order to ratify the dual citizenship agreement, but then it would be good if the College were to be, and of course, if we stick to the Rules of Procedure, everything could fit into the Rules of Procedure, if it were to be considered, but the way that the College does not fit is good, and I will not vote past the Rules of Procedure, no matter what I think. It seems to me that it was good, therefore, to guess the point, that it would have been good if this had been a law on BiH citizenship. At that time, the College could suggest it and only get this part into the content of the law. At that time, we could make a positive statement today about this legal project. But I don't know if the College is in a hurry, whether it's on that old-new that the High Representative imposes more laws is better than the little me, more me than you, but it's not parliament and it seems to me that all that kit is more pronounced when it comes to the Office of the High Representative and this Parliament. So, please, don't get upset with Jovanović, I respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6758	Please don't communicate with each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6759	So please don't throw away.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6760	Well, here I am, ask me.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6761	So, I ask the College to adapt the title of this law to the Rules of Procedure so that we can make a positive statement today with the recent order and content of the law. So, that it's called law, not amendments and additions, as the Council of Ministers called, and we have last time declared that this law goes into regular procedure. And there can be no law of the same content, the same name of the business we're not asphyxiated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6762	I thank you, Mr. Špirić. Is anyone else looking for a word on the agenda? Mr. Gligorić Tihomir. Here you go, Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6763	We predicted everything to the Rules of Procedure, but we didn't predict how long a man could walk to get to the microphone. Members of the Bureau, ladies and gentlemen, I join the discussion of Professor Špirić who clearly said we have a Rules of Procedure and we have on the other hand the goodwill of the members of the College. Last time we discussed four of these, I think you had a correct proposal, but you didn't accept it, and at the same time you didn't agree as the College, which was right by the Rules of Procedure, and you could have done it at the same time and so you did. In the meantime, you are now dating with the same, practical, text and you have ignored the Rules of Procedure and perhaps this is the initial stalking you have, but I must tell you that this Parliament must work towards the Rules of Procedure. It would not be good, given that you as a College are represented in three parties and if you think it was a problem for you to agree and now that you have agreed, you consider that your will is both the Rules of Procedure and the Law and the Constitution. You must make that line between your will, which I appreciate and respect, but I do not support it on the other side of the Rules of Procedure that you must respect. In this case, you have entered a business crisis because you are unable to realise what you are offering, by your signature, in Parliament now. You can change the law and have a new active ID in this Parliament again or if you are natural, you will thus receive one pressure on the MPs and, if you have a congregation majority, you can do so, but in the beginning you are in violation of the Rules of Procedure, it is not good and it is not good to be a practice. The Rules of Procedure are a small constitution for this Parliament and I want it respected as an MP and requested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6764	I thank Mr. Gligorić. Stick to the three-minute discussion of the agenda. Thank you very much. Mr. Beriz Belkić asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6765	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, why we forget what this is all about. So we absolutely respect the Rules of Procedure, it's okay. This is simply about a situation where a number of MPs forced the College to meet the interests of our citizens to provide evidence of confidence that ratification of the dual citizenship treaty would be provided. So it's not about trust. Today we have been provided with evidence that there is no reason for mistrust, and do not now go beyond the Rules of Procedure and continue the story we told last time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6766	Of course we won't, Mr. Belkić. I thank you. I'm not gonna let that happen. There's no need for that. Mrs. Seada Palavrić is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6767	I am really not in the mood to take away valuable time, especially since it is already expressed concern over the number of sessions and essentially ineffectiveness, but I ask colleagues who are calling on the Rules of Procedure, who insist that again, it seems to me, do not do what we intend to do today. To tell the truth about this pay phone. For the previous session, we had no proposals, decisions on ratification of the dual citizenship agreement with the SR Yugoslavia. If you have carefully read the material we have received, you will see that the Council of Ministers only set out on December 20th at the proposal of Mr Lagumdžija a proposal for a decision, that it has delivered it to the BiH Presidency and that the presidency is now sending it to the Parliamentary Assembly for a ratification agreement. 5 So let us please be serious and say everything that was missing last time, unlike today. When we say that the law in the same text cannot go, because it violates the Rules of Procedure or other infringements of the Rules of Procedure, I would not now, but we can always sit down and discuss which members of the Rules of Procedure are injured and, otherwise, I would invite us all, if we say injured is the Rules of Procedure, then let's say clearly and loudly which member and what position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6768	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. Since no one's answered their word again. I'm closing the debate on the agenda. When we conclude the debate on the agenda, I just want to say two things. First, it is true that this is the 5th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, and it is true that this is the fourth arrival of the MPs of this House at the session and, of course, requires expenses. There will be no expensive cost of working at this home, if this home is on time, timely respond to its constitutional obligations. We, ladies and gentlemen Members of the Constitution, have spent two sessions and this house cannot be built without at least two sessions, you know that well. Then we had a debate on the budget, which came in the way it came to this House and, of course, we have this session today concerning the constitutional obligation of this House to respond resiliently to the Presidency's decision to appoint the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Therefore, please, our sessions will be in future sessions that will have agendas on which we have learned, therefore, much wider and much longer. Nothing's going to wait at the College, everything's going to be public in this room. But so far, this has simply had to be so, because it is based on the Constitution of this country and the Rules of Procedure on the work of this home. So that's one thing. As for the other matter, regarding the Rules of Procedure, trust me that the College, together with the Sekretarijat, takes great care of the Rules of Procedure and I ask each and every one of you whenever there is an objection to state the specific provision of the Rules of Procedure which has been broken and which has been injured. I thank you. I have not heard a proposal from the discussion so far to amend the existing agenda. I didn't hear the suggestion that even one item of the agenda should be downloaded, and I find that the House of Representatives has established the agenda for today's session, that's 1. Confirmation of appointments of the BiH Council of Ministers Chairman, 2. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Import and Export of Arms and Military Equipment under Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House, 3. The request of MPs Šefik Džaferović, Borislav Paravac and Bariša Čolak to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the BiH Citizenship Act under Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, and 4. Giving consent to ratification of the double citizenship agreement between BiH and the SR Yugoslavia. Business intervention, Mr. Špirić. Here you go. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6769	Ladies and gentlemen, I have, therefore, made myself clear. I wanted to say that we're working not to violate the Rules of Procedure, and the way out of this is to call this a citizenship law. So it's not called changes and additions, it's called BiH citizenship law under Article 105. There's a law, but since the College didn't take care of it, I'm just saying we're not breaking the Rules of Procedure and we're adopting the law. Therefore, there is no need to be changes and additions, but there may be a new law not to violate the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you, I'm talking about doing a job so as not to violate the Rules of Procedure, because once we break the Rules of Procedure, you'll see how it goes for the next four years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6770	So please nice. Mr. Špirić, I greatly appreciate what you're saying at the pay phone, watching and watching what needs to be done with what you're proposing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You're proposing, in fact, three proposings to change the name of the law. Proposers don't accept that, Mr. Špirić and I'm notifying you. The name of the law remains the same as it was established by the Council of Ministers and we are going now, I have a suggestion, since there has been a change from the original agenda you received in calling for a statement on the agenda. I call upon you to plead. Who's on the agenda like this? Thank you. Did you count it? Yes, it is. Who's against it? Are there any mirthy ones? Thank you. Give me the results. Of the 40 MPs present, 35 voted in favour – 1 voted against – 4 were abstentions. I realize that we have both a general and a general entity majority and that we have adopted this agenda. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. Confirming the appointment of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the BiH Presidency, on the basis of Article 9(1). The law on the BiH Council of Ministers reached a decision at the 2nd emergency session held on 20 December 2002 on the appointment of the chairman of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers. 1. Adnan Terzić, appointed head of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Council of Ministers. 2. The appointed will take over as chairman of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Council of Ministers after the appointment has been approved by the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives. 3. The decision takes effect on the day of its adoption, and will be published in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Official Messenger. This is literally how Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency's decision to appoint Bosnia and Herzegovina's chairman-in-Office Council, I repeat at the 2nd emergency session, held on 20 December 2002. I call on the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić, to present his political programme. Here you go, Mr. Terzić. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6771	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Chairman-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, respected members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, honourable MPs of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly, Excellency, media representatives. In the first place, I would like to thank the Presidency of Bosnia and Hercegovan, who unanimously entrusted me with the role of the Council of Ministers' mandate. By accepting the candidacy, I would like to make it clear that I am deeply aware of the political, economic and social situation in the country. I have no intention of taking any rhetoric, indicators, or figures to paint this condition, or to give an assessment of it. I think it's the practice of those who want to increase any success in advance or seek an alibi for a possible failure. The citizens of this country, unfortunately, know best what conditions they live in, work, raise and educate their children. However, given the resources and potentials this country has, primarily human. I think the future Council of Ministers has a chance. I am convinced that it can be imposed as a cohesion factor in the interests of citizens in the existing constitutional and legal constitution of the state. Before the new council of ministers starts, I have a need to define a system of values that will be the matrix of our political action. It is clear to all of us that the European path has no alternative. Transition processes have no alternative. Economic and social reforms have no alternative. The market economy has no alternative. The return of refugees and implementation of property laws have no alternative. The fight against corruption has no alternative. The rule of law also has no alternative. However, no one has a magic stick to end these processes overnight or in one term, but there is therefore one concept that can certainly guide us on the path of resolving them. That term is called responsibility. Responsibility will be the basic system of values to measure the work of the Council of Ministers, and in particular responsibility for strengthening state institutions on the internal and international agenda. Responsibility for the creation and implementation of reforms in partnership with the international community. Responsibility for the fact that our country is a strategic geopolitical factor in regional stability. The responsibility to make Bosnia and Herzegovina an attractive partner for foreign investment and a country of chance for its citizens. Responsibility for ensuring optimal balance between economic and social values. The responsibility to have cheap but effective power at all levels. The responsibility that this country needs a government that will not interfere in the lives of citizens, but work to improve living standards. The responsibility to give citizens a chance and enable them to take advantage of the knowledge and abilities they have that national and cultural and other differences are an advantage, not a cause of conflict and intolerance. And ultimately responsibility to perform public function and public work. The reforms we need to implement will be comprehensive and in line with European standards. Like any medicine, some will be bitter, but should be taken with optimism by patients who hope to recover. The basic objectives of the reform are, in fact, the basic objectives of the transition. These are the total democratisation of society, the rule of law, the market economy and ultimately social justice. Ladies and gentlemen, from appointments to this day, I have held a large number of consultations with political parties taking part in this House. I have managed to secure a broad parliamentary majority to support the new council of ministers. Unfortunately, because of the need to obtain the consent of the international community for the ministers of the Council of Ministers, I am not able to propose to you today the composition of my cabinet. For this reason, today I am 8 exhibits, which is why my exposure today does not have the usual form of exposure, but represents a political framework for the Council of Ministers' action. I have chosen for this form because I want my exposés, except for my personal vision, to include partly the vision of future members of the Council of Ministers. This is a time when we need to work on solving the life issues of all citizens where national interests are meant, but they are not in the first place. I believe that Bosnia and Herzegovina has a chance if we work as a team of experts, well-intentioned people whose interests are above the interests of the state and its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6772	I thank Mr. Terzić. You will receive Mr. Terzić's exposure. I beg the service, therefore, it is multiplied to divide the presentation to the MPs. I don't know if the English version is done, if it is to divide that version here. So, thank you, Mr. Terzić. Here I am opening the debate. Who wants to talk? Mr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6773	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, is in the procedure of parliamentary procedure for the proposed exposé to be in front of the MPs. I expect it'll be with the fact that it's brought out like this to say "exposed exposé," I'm in front of the SNSD Club under Article 62. I'm asking the Rules of Procedure for a half-hour break to study such exposés. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6774	Thank you. Please, just a little attention, please. May I have your attention, please? I am obliged to give the Rules of Procedure a 30-minute break at the request of the SNSD Club and I say it is now a 30-minute break. But we continue at exactly 14 and 15. MPs, let's get back to work. [[PAUZA]] A representative, or president of the SNSD club, Mr. Živković asked for a break. Mr. Živković, you have a ricket. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6775	Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen's presidency, Mr. President, let me just say I'm the vice president of the SNSD Club. Mr. Kragulj is the president. We asked for this break, so that, as I said, we could not read anything about this exposé, and unfortunately, not that this exposé was short, but that we from the SNSD in it could not read anything, and that would greatly define our position and our vote for the proposed mandate. Apriori, to be clear, we're not against anyone, but this kind of exposure, frankly, doesn't deserve a debate. If you'll allow me, I'd continue the debate as first, or you'll give voice to someone else, and then I'll take your word for it. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6776	Just keep going, Mr. Živković. You're already behind the pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6777	In any case, national parties can congratulate themselves on this already certain formation of government and on the level of BiH's Council of Ministers, before doing so at the entity level. I am also personally satisfied with such developments, because those who were the main screenwriters and protagonists of the conflict at these premises of three national parties with the help of part of the international community, I hope for a short time to solve the problems of refugees, pensioners, workers, social cases, war criminals, foreign terrorists, solve the ordered killings of the current and forgotten customs and military affairs, capture mobsters and criminals, dealers and pimps and traffickers, prevent initiatives to eliminate names and entities themselves, transfer initiatives to the state level and audits, obviously the Dayton Agreement. So can anyone in this country believe that national parties will. On the other hand, I would like to point out that with this coalition of the national party, at least two delusions have been lifted. One is that the SDS is an exclusive representative of the Serb people, a defender of Serbia and first class. This topic is in the people, especially with us in RS already elaborated and I wouldn't talk too much about it. Another delusion is that the international community supports moderate parties. Gentlemen of the international community, I would like you to clarify to me whether all BiH parties have become moderate or the international community has revised their position and has realized that they are the easiest to implement their goals.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6778	Mr. Živković, here I have, therefore, the interventions from the O.R., stick to the exposés and the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6779	In fact, it is obvious that something is constantly being covered up in this high house and trying to hurry. When elected, the Presidency is not even allowed to discuss the fact that people who know the proposal say something about them and that, perhaps in the light of new facts, they are otherwise discussed. If you also don't let such extensive exposés, under quotes, who told us what we knew, and that's what we wanted and didn't say the basic how to do it, don't let me say at least three words about it, and here I am in those three minutes, you're free to stop me, I won't talk anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6780	You have, of course, the ability to talk for more than three minutes, but you're talking about exposure and stick to the subject. Here, that's the essence of my intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6781	Okay, we're going to the exposé, and I'd like concrete answers from the gentleman who's been proposed. 10 I was wondering if you were to buy VAT at a state level and distribute on entities? Are you in favour of abolishing the name of RS and RS entities? Are you in favour of financing BiH's lawsuit against Yugoslavia and having that funding come from the Budget of BiH? Will you advocate the capture of war criminals and the destruction of terrorist organisations in BiH? You're in for an immediate execution of court decisions. In the Federation of BiH, the decision of the House of Human Rights on the return of apartments has not yet been implemented. And, finally, let me ask you. The past government has concluded with the international community a contract called work and justice. Are you going to be on that path and will you continue to carry out this contract? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6782	So I once again want to draw attention to the MPs. Of course, the debate should run and I will not limit the debate, but I would like to say that this was Mr. Terzić's approach speech. That it was, in fact, a political programme, as our Rules of Procedure says, that the exposures with concrete answers to conflicting questions, according to Mr. Terzić, will be offered in co-operation with future ministers when at the next session of today. I will propose that it be today to confirm the appointment of ministers who will appoint a prime minister for the Council of Ministers' composition. That's one thing. Second thing, please stick to the agenda theme. There's no need to raise the temperature here, raise the tension. So this is a serious moment for BiH. I'm asking you to behave accordingly. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Sead Avdić then Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6783	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, respected presidency, respected members of the Council of Ministers, I, too, would like to say a few words about the exposé of the Council of Ministers. It's clean, it's well noticed and noticed by the chairman of the House of Representatives. This is more accessible and in this context no less or less should be accepted as well. So, it's not, it's just the Council of Ministers' platform of action for the next four years. This is not the Council of Ministers' work programme in the next four years and in this sense, certainly, that at the beginning, in order to be quite clear with this message and discussion, I propose that, at the next meeting of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, when the election was held, the choice of the entire Council of Ministers, to offer a complete document in spirit simply a document which was already partly created in relations or in the scope of the document "Work and Justice", which my colleague Živković was talking about, and in that sense, to open a full debate, simply about the future of the Council of Ministers' Council in the next four years. There's only a few indications I'd be free to say, which is, says the market economy has no alternative, that's not true. The market economy has an alternative, and so on. The concept of 11 social market economies, without which a social state cannot be achieved, would be necessary to process, simply say and simply respond to the controversy of the creation of a social state in BiH. So, social tensions have created such a degree that threatens social stability in BiH, endangers the functioning of executive and legislative authorities and in this context, it is absolutely necessary to respond fully to what is called the social market economy and the creation of a paradigm, i.e. the creation of a true social state. It would be good, too, if this notion that I have welcomed with approval was not the responsibility of being the only dimension and criteria of the functioning of the Council of Ministers. It can't be, because you have together with responsibility, if you observe ability, morality, ethics, and everything else then you can, but only responsibility, so you can have incompetent and responsible, or irresponsible and capable. So, it wouldn't be good if, simply with these terms we were playing with and in this context, it's absolutely necessary, completely, really, really, simply set the criteria on which the Council of Ministers' work will be based. So it's not just responsibility. I absolutely prefer the ability and responsibility together can go and not just the responsibility individually and especially or isolatedly. Also, under 3) says here in the document the composition of its cabinet. I would be pleased, Mr. Chairman, to have you in a position to create your own cabinet of responsibility and the objectives you set before the Council of Ministers, but I doubt it will be a simple set of wishes of certain political parties and parties where you will not, after all, have the chance to make an effective team that will function. So, I plead if you have the strength, simply, and you've been given the trust of the BiH Presidency to do everything on your part to be a team that can function according to criteria and responsibilities and by the abilities and morals and ethics and everything else. You also say it is only a political framework for the Council of Ministers' action. I ask you, the BiH Parliament is modeling and creating a policy in the BiH state and the Council of Ministers is implementing that policy. So let's be very vague. The BiH House of Representatives and the House of Peoples is creating and modernising BiH's policy through political parties and representative systems and the Council of Ministers is implementing that policy. So, you are not a political authority and in this context, after all, that you know your reach, simple actions and functioning of the Council of Ministers so as not to come contrary to the aspect of the conduct or simple control of this Parliament by the executive authority, which is always a dominant tendency or, simply, a simple tendency of the executive authority. So I once again plead that at the next meeting of the House of Representatives we get the full document. How to realise the fundamental objectives, macroeconomic management in BiH, how to create a social state, how to create a socio-market economy, how to bring the privatisation process with as much justice as possible to the end of BiH, how to simply protect or, simply, improve labour law in BiH, etc. and how to co-operate with the international community with the full human moral dignity of the BH authorities until the end, simply establish true partnership relations that will result in the implementation and simple common goal of implementing the document "Work and Justice". I must point out in the end that, objectively, many people in BiH have skepticism, since political philosophy based on a national and exclusive political principle. If this frightening logic of Bosnian Herzegovina's policy prevails and is the motive of the Council of Ministers' functioning and action, then simply, this country faces a turbulent period, where, after all, the apathy of hopelessness or some other syntagms is simply realism. Which means, please do everything on your part, if you have 12 strengths and courage, and you have it I believe, simply that such a frightening logic of BH policy is not a motive or, simply a function of the Council of Ministers' objective. I can personally express my opinion. Mr. Terzić, as far as I have information, has no career mortgage, is not a political calculator, is not trading interests or patriotism in BiH. And those words define me from the aspect of my personal relationship, simply, that we should also look at this aspect of the candidacy, namely this appointment by the BiH presidency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6784	I thank Mr. Avdić. Before the word takes Mr. Gligorić. Here you go, you can go to the speaker. I'd like to ask you, I have a Secret Service alert that if someone happens to have a cell phone to turn it off, because the mobiles involved interfere with the session's recording that you know. So please turn off your phones all present here in this room. Here you go, Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6785	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you yourself have admitted that this is a political framework and you are obviously introducing some newspapers in relation to classical exposés, which implies that we should speak primarily of the macroeconomic economy and that political framework. When it comes to the political framework, I'll stick to it. I would ask the Prime Minister to explain when he is talking about the political framework whether he is thinking closer to the environment, because in the exposé, or in this political speech, it is not said. And that means a lot to BiH. You don't have to comment on that. And this again means whether BiH, or the Council of Ministers, will have the opportunity after the political will voted in parliament last time, political will is more important for some people in BiH than money for a lawsuit against the SR Yugoslavia. Is there anything you want to say and how the Council of Ministers, given that there is no consensus there, but the presence of only two ministers of three, with the fact that we have a phenomenon that MPs vote as numerically and there are more than ministers and practices that we have so far had to act. Then, you said the BiH government, and you know by the Constitution and by the laws, as well as the Council of Ministers' Law or the Council of Ministers' Council, as it was stressed. At the same time, the centralisation or perhaps unitaryisation of BiH is very clear, as entities are not mentioned anywhere. None of the entities, and the Council of Ministers to function should have exceptional co-operation with entity institutions, thus also the Federation of BiH and RS. Since you have not stated this, and this is a political framework, it is a very important political issue, since political will in BiH is very important for the functioning of the institutions themselves. When you say it's a political framework, then you can also talk about certain principles. When we talk about human policy, let's say, I have nothing against Mr. Terzić, but I have to remind you that proposing people implies that they have a certain qualification to lead such an important Council, because we are at a time of social and economic hopelessness and it would be particularly important that the economist is a lawyer and perhaps a polythicologist, given that he needs to know that he is serving the staff, such as the economists that 13 BiH has, but never the science is used as well here. A graduate geodesy engineer, and I say that again because I'm the director of the Geodetic Property and Legal Service, the RS Administration, I work with these people. They're honest and honest people who do their job. But by imposing the law on the land book and how we're going to have something to do, because we're going to get into a legal mess, in which only geodites and lawyers are going to have a lot of work to do. It would be better to direct such personnel for what we don't have in BiH, and obviously it doesn't concern us, because in the past system we had, I have to remember my professor Mića Carević, the last communist who says in his book between ethics and self-government: "This ugly, makeupd communist face from which human politics is hidden and the baker said and the pastry, etc. When everyone criticized him he remained consistent, remained the last communist, and many here in the O.R. were, but here today in some other mess, but human resources is something that was very important and what the Presidency had to take care of. We have two members of the Presidency here, and you are, first of all, at your address, or behind that curtain members of the Bureau are hiding another policy, which in fact drives members of the Presidency and they are tools in hand, in fact some policies, in this case national, that they have to act as they did and that they have not taken care of essential things, such as keeping principled staff policies, that people from knowledge and science come to the right places. I believe that this council of ministers, in the way that it wants to be conceived, proposed and guided, will not be in a situation to resolve many issues, and you have mentioned people's lives here. How will the national parties handle this, when they are, according to their vote, newly-roasted capitalists who are only interested in profit and who are easier to come by in this privatisation or by the law of bankruptcy to businesses, because they have no soul and now part of the international community, precisely national parties and respond because they want a shock privatisation, it is a shock privatisation, or a rapid emergency, they have found good followers, who are ruthless and where the judge is the people you have been calling in the elections. Why don't you say when we talk about the political framework and about it, and here you want when Dr. Živković said that somehow it goes quickly and whoever does this will and wants to allow the congregation's majority to get to the Council of Ministers, who, after all, will do nothing, because if we talk about politics in '90. and '92. We had one policy for years. You offered the same standard as Switzerland, so we entered the bloody civil war.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6786	Expose, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6787	Today in 2002, you are also talking about the care of citizens and people. Your policy is wrong somewhere.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6788	Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6789	You don't have much to talk about, do you? The last time you national parties spoke of the prime minister, you were waiting here in front of the pay phone to be bold. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6790	Mr Gligorić, please, I am not doing anything that is not in the Rules of Procedure, I am just warning you that you are having a discussion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that you are talking about what you have as a document in front of you. Please, nice.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6791	If you consider Mr. Chairman that politics is not what costs citizens, what leads citizens to peace, progress, war, retrograde, etc. Then I don't know what the definition of politics is.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6792	Please, Mr. Gligorić, I warned you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6793	In BiH, it must finally be known who are the bearers of change, which programme, which people and what ideology. Why is he hiding it? In every normal Western country, you must know the bearers of change. This is where he wants me not to know. I just want to say if the wrong policies were in '90, '92. or 2002. You can't be right twice. I'm asking that, of course, as a question. And since Mr. Muratović reacts, he told Serbian television last time.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6794	I'm responding here. Mr Muratović is not responding. Please don't call nicely. I reacted and I warned you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6795	Who talks about revote and says. It's normal both in life and in politics and that he doesn't see the problems here and I want to say now for the SDS whether there are majorizations here, when there are shared resolutions in the Council of Ministers and when the SDS and the HDZ have shared those resistors and the SDS have left as a gift or I don't know how to call it and that, and they haven't responded. Whether it's a majorization that the SDS accepts now or not. And then I'm asking for an answer, because that's the point. Whoever hides and what ideologies, which changers are in BiH, because you're full of mouths that you're reformers, and when it comes to the national issue, then you say it's over, you don't have to talk about it, because we're in transition reform and now you're some civil options and you want everything that's happened to be some ugly dream and nothing happened in the meantime. That's why I think the prime minister should answer these questions. At the same time, it would be also correct to include representatives of the congregation's majority, to give their one opinion, because it is not good for you to shut up over something, because I can tell you that this triage it makes to the people in terms and the representative who represents here is very important, and if you get the mandate and trust of the citizens, the national parties, you get not to be together, because your policy has split up. In that case, did you play with these people's fates and human lives? You must answer to the citizens of BiH. And now, under the reform course you want everything to go away, there's been an ugly dream, we're all very good guys. On that path of national parties I wish you a happy journey, but I believe that in that hellish statement you will surely be, and you are very gifted to come another miracle and never end when you are at the same time 15 at the same time calling and looking for representatives of the international community to be able to leave BiH slowly, that is your ultimate goal for BiH in that hellish sentence to be first, probably, much of what will not be our citizens' will. On that road, you're very lucky, but without me.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6796	I again call upon the messengers, when they speak of what is today's theme, not to abuse this pay phone. So far, we've had cases of typical abuse of payphones and politicization. Please, nice. Replica, Mr. Elmir Jahić. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6797	Dear fellow MPs, respected members of the BiH Presidency, the media, I am sorry in truth that at today's session, which was also meant to have a part of the solemn character, we hear, unfortunately, a word of insult to the candidate of the Party of Democratic Action, deputy party president Adnan Terzić. These assessments of some alleged incompetence, and the least said ridiculous insinuation that you should, what the gentleman should do and what BiH should do in the coming period are in truth very unsuitable to this home. I would like to say that Mr. Terzić, on two occasions in two terms, as delivered to you in his biography, performed the duty of the first man of the Middle Bosnian Canton, therefore, Governor of Canton. I will mention that the canton with a special regime, therefore, is with a special regime of relations between the two constituent peoples in the Federation and BiH and BiH as a whole. So, Croatian and Bosniak people. Canton where there have been very big problems in the previous period, therefore, during the war and afterwards, and certainly thanks to Mr. Terzić, these problems have been well overcome, because one of his characteristics is the finding of compromises and the adoption of common solutions to the well-being of all citizens. Unfortunately, it is obvious that some do not respond because we believe that all three constituent nations should agree together and have a common position on all important issues in BiH. In this context, Mr. Terzić did not propose the Council of Ministers' exposures today. Why? Because all ministers, apart from that, need Mr. Terzić and from the Serb order, from Croatia and from the Bosniak people's order to have a consensus on the most important issues. Otherwise, this would have been, if the exhibit had been put out today, it would have been Mr. Terzić's personal position, and we are not aiming at either voting or majorisation, etc. but all three constituent political, all three constituent peoples in BiH. And, I, too, ask the chairman not to allow the abuse of this pay phone in the truth. The MP has the right to say what he thinks, but within the framework of the Rules of Procedure, he must also be responsible for not abusing this pay phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6798	Thank you, Mr. Jahić. Is it a relic, or is it a discussion? Then Mr. Duraković, he called earlier and then you, Mr. Muratović. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6799	I'm no ordinary procedure, so I'm going to say to all those who are present, I was truly sworn when I was elected to this honorable home that I won't speak for at least three months, but, I've been offered these discussions. First, I address us elected MPs. Why have we all been determined on that solemn oath, sworn in, and full of our mouths to all the sovereigns, the first ones, internationally recognized, civil, democratic, Europian-oriented, these and those of BiH. But in the process, it turns out that less than many of us are doing everything against this and so defined BiH. Even after the oath itself and the intonation of the Bosnian Anthem, which many don't even know is an anthem. Unfortunately, what happens is, the least we could say is obstruction, manipulation, petty prank, procedural confusion, to say the least, etc. From the occasion of a mine speech, one who understands Hegel and his peaceful owl, the miniature, the cable, the transmutation, the pranks and the mixing. Let's get this over with sometime. What is this parliament? Excuse me if I do a little doctoring. He's not unique about that. Unfortunately, the majority of parliaments today and in the democratic world are turning into a place where they will be acclaimed unarped by tailored decisions in the headquarters of powerful or ruling parties. And we just come here to acclaim what's in the second place is made and decided and to be aware of it and now from where I'm sorry. I understand my colleagues, rightly they criticise both national parties and all the practice so far, etc. We accepted the rope, whether Živković would or don't know his name. I share your opinion, but we've agreed to enter this House and this House if we can change anything. I am aware that what has already been agreed in advance in the lobby, or in the centre of the ruling parties, will be voted here. But democracy, unfortunately, with all its advantages, has one great weakness, it is the rule of the majority and so does translation. Demonstration of the doratey. It was supposed to be the government of the people, but in the parliamentary procedure it is the rule of the majority. Well, if we agreed to those rules and we did, then we should stick to them, so now, no matter what the structure of this Parliament is. We should try to work on the same for the breakthrough or improvement of this country's suffering BiH. In my opinion, the exposés submitted by Mr. Terzić, and I've been following politics for a long time, and I'm dealing with an extremely good, concise one. He doesn't really deal with details. This is an introductory political framework, which should point to the general or the freeways of what we need to deal with and what we need to decide on, and he may be, perhaps, the only one missing from what he says about responsibility, I don't even know how many, nine points, without saying who's responsible. Is this parliament, whether the Council of Ministers, whether other structures, whether other centres of political power etc. You should, as I say, personalize that responsibility. That would be my only suggestion. Otherwise, on this occasion, and this ad-hoc for me is an exceptional, good, introductory political framework that a mandater offers to this parliament. I don't see any reason to obstruct him, no matter how much Mr. Terzić and I disagree on ideas and political matters. If you've noticed in his exposé that it's a frantic surprise for me, and good enough for someone to translate it into malignancy, but I think it's true. Mr. Terzić speaks of neither Hrvat nor Srbin, nor Bošnjak, nor anyone else. He's just talking about the citizens and the interests of the BiH state, which really surprised me, that one SDA leader finally starts talking to him about the affair. 17 There is talk of centralization, unitaryization, etc. BiH. On the contrary, I interpreted these exposures exactly the opposite. It is decentralisation and government of citizens, respecting, of course, all constitutional and other legal frameworks and, of course, delegating that entity reality that we have. I just called to say, there was an observation. Where is the relationship to Yugoslavia? So he spoke neither of Croatia nor of Yugoslavia nor of anyone, he gave, as far as I understand one general framework in which the Council of Ministers' policy should be moved, therefore, of the state government, and then of which, while the ministers elected, each of them will offer their own programme, and from that programme, I guess we will be able to define ourselves. And, as the old Latin says,...really taste should not be debated, but, if it means anything, I warmly support your exposés and I think for the sake of efficiency and for the sake of the improvement of this country and for the sake of moving on with these immigrants, pranks of procedural, mucus, etc. We'll take that exposure to do something, and we'll see what happens next year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6800	Thank you, Mr. Duraković. Your name was mentioned, would you like a replica? Mr. Živković Milorad Replica. Is it a discussion? And be prepared Mr Muratović, after him Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6801	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I thank the honourable MP for a short course in work in Parliament, but I want to say the following. Namely, no one can forbid us to go out for this pay phone and I know what the majority of the assembly is, and I know what the ruling majority's deal is in this, but as a man to say figuratively, which I see BiH's movements, and I think I feel like someone going to the shooting, that I have the right to say the last wish, which is this speech that I said before, and that nobody can forbid me here, especially when people who voted for me have delegated me to say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6802	Thank you. Mr. Muratović. Have Mr. Raguž prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6803	Dear Chairman, respected members of the presidency, respected colleagues and colleagues, I would like to join those who have assessed this speech by Mr Terzić very favourably. To tell you the truth, I didn't see or hear a single word of that speech before this meeting, because we in the party believed it would be done this well. The Council of Ministers' Action Platform cannot, of course, be submitted without the participation of ministers, and that platform should contain all those functions belonging to the Council of Ministers, and I expect that when we confirm the appointment of ministers, we will receive one framework programme of work in each ministry and in each function, under which we will be able to appreciate and give confidence to the overall government. I want to say something completely different here. The appointment and confirmation of the Prime Minister in one country or the Council of Ministers or whatever you want is a solemn act, a ceremony act. He was appointed by the Presidency, the largest authority, the highest authority in this 18-nation country. We're expected to confirm our appointment. If you need a party or an individual to prove themselves on this high authority in anything, or to fight for some of their ideas, that, of course, should do it, but trust me as colleagues that this is not the time. This is the act we need to approach with proper dignity, as is the case in every country. This is a solemn act. We should also behave in this way, congratulate our future prime minister on the courage to accept one of these functions in this time, to wish him success, to ask him to cooperate in the course of his mandate and the mandate of the Council of Ministers and to show, in our own words, not only the maturity of such an organ in front of the world, in front of voters, in front of the country that today gets a new prime minister for a four-year term, but also to show the human characteristics of the man who represents the people here in this high house. I therefore ask you to give our trust to Prime Minister Terzić to declare his trust, namely to confirm his appointment made by the Presidency to wish him success in his work with us and to wish in this four-year term true progress to this country with our new government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6804	Thank you, Mr. Muratović. Mr. Raguž and let Mr. Špirić prepare himself. When he gets back to you two, make a deal. Mr. Lagumdžija after Mr. Raguž and then Špirić. That's the deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6805	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency of this House, the Honorable Presidency of BiH, the Honorable Representatives, members of the Council, on the occasion of today we have come forward to declare the legal and legitimate proposal of the BiH Presidency, which, in accordance with the Constitution of this country, has fulfilled its obligation, appointed a mandater, who, behold, presented the exposés here. I think it is a chance when all the political parties that are participating in this house should be determined on the responsibility of both the presidency and the mandated and what the Bosnian-Herzegovina public offers. Now, to that end, allow me to say a few things, which, in my court, can contribute to improving the conditions for the Council of Ministers' work and making it easier to take responsibility in these difficult and crisis years. Before that, I would react to a stereo type, who has been cheating on part of political parties for a long time, and I think it is in the light of dying on moderate and national parties, and it is time to clearly declare ourselves here in both this home and in the public that there is no longer anyone exclusive or can take place in a democratic society to reform, the foundations of European values, but that is the first to be practiced and effectively implemented in public institutions and institutions, and that is everywhere. Well, I guess you don't want these parties to be called to war or anything if we call for reforms. Let go of this is the legitimate right of every party and who has come to these elections in accordance with the Constitution and the applicable legal regulations, and we will see in this Parliament and in the work of the institutions how and how much it contributes to the country's exit from the crisis and seeking institutional and other solutions that this country is functioning, respecting and specificity of this country, and I would like to say this specifically to the mandater. I'll put my voice here today. If he's determined more precisely the character of this country. I think that in this responsibility, nine points can be one point that will say that the Council of Ministers will be responsible for ensuring the conditions for BiH to be a free, sovereign, democratic European country in which the higher national character will be guaranteed institutionally and in which European solutions will not... and that dimension and should not go too far to civil or national. In this country, there should be one balance of 19 between ethnic, individual and only such paths we can go stable towards Europe, respecting other institutional structure provisions and going through such institutions to improve this structure, respecting all specificities. As far as the programme is concerned, I expect and I think it is correct by the mandaters to say that they will intensify it and fully unite it in communication with people who will take responsibility for certain areas. I therefore expect that I will have an opportunity at the first of the next sessions, i.e. at the first session, to have elements of the programme that will define what institutional improvement is in BiH, what economic and social reforms are, which are elements of the return of regional stability, security structures, all other full rule of law, the fight against corruption. I think that this exposé should be in written form delivered before, translated into foreign languages, that we simply legislate on something that will be the obligation of this Parliament to oversee this programme and create conditions and support the work of the Council and the mandaters to implement this programme, so in this context I think it is realistic to expect a more serious and comprehensive debate after the merger of this programme and its more precise action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6806	I thank Mr. Raguž. Mr. Zlatko has a word and let Mr. Nikola Špirić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6807	Mr. Chairman, distinguished members of the Presidency, Mr. Terzić, I fully agree that this is one solemn act, in every sense of that word. It must be solemn both in shape and in its contents, and therefore I think that this session's current course of several smaller trips has indeed shown that we have a sense of responsibility and that we will preserve the dignity of our home and the whole procedure that is ahead of us. Since the agenda point is to confirm the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. access to exposure, I would like to draw attention, too, that the appointed chairman of the Council of Ministers has, in a certain way, given us to the spectrum, but still several precise specifics, and thus the topic has been defined very broadly. We can see from the exposé that this approach was about the political, economic and social situation in the country. So that's the topic. Here the need is defined to, quote, "Define a system of values" which will be the matrix of the Council of Ministers' political action, which I am sure is with impatience. That's exactly how I would ask Mr. Chairman, don't get me wrong, but it's hardly possible to get out of the context of this topic when spoken and I would ask that this few MPs who have applied to be allowed to speak without interruption, because I know that by Article 54, every psalmist can speak after he asks for a word from the chairman and that each member of the 56th MP can speak immediately about the issues which have been discussed in accordance with the established agenda. Let the established agenda, least said, be so wide that it is difficult to get out of it and if it were to come down and down from us here, it has a good will to contribute to the mandate, or elected chairman of the Council of Ministers, especially in the way in which it is determined to work at the next session, if it passes, and it is expected to pass, by the climate that this next step will be as prepared as 20 to what we expect in this House. So I think all of these here are comments and suggestions, treat them, indeed, as well-intentioned and treat them as observations and suggestions and discussions they want both in form and in content to do this in a solemn act so that the next session of Parliament has that character. We've all come to this session, less with deep knowledge of how this vote will go, and we know it well. So there's no need to rush. All voices are less famous. I also join those who speak of BiH citizens being spoken of in this act as natural to this home. And that's why I don't agree with those who brought us back here that we should present ourselves here, first of all as representatives of Bošnjak, Hrvat and Srbin, which we also are in our nature, but in this house we're all elected citizens and this is the House of Representatives and some people who are first in this home may have carried them a little bit, so that we don't enter into such discussions in the future, it's good to remember that. I also expect the chairman to answer some questions, as others have asked. The more he says in the exposé, consultations have been completed and parliamentary majority has been secured. We would do well to know less what consultations have been carried out and what is the parliamentary majority, but it is logical to expect to be heard here after this ovary which are consultations and which is the parliamentary majority and on what. I join all those who congratulated the Presidency today for their appointment. I congratulate the Presidency on the unanimity of this appointment, because in some earlier cases, when the elected prime minister was not the case and I think it's a good thing, but let's just say, however, we hope that this will not happen in the future. The presidency was, objectively, three days late, in accordance with the Council of Ministers' law, so this unanimity is somehow compensation for cooking, because under the Council of Ministers' Law, the mandater was scheduled to be appointed last Monday and he was appointed on Friday. I also congratulate the President-in-Office of the Vijećaministar and join those who appreciate his courage to enter into what he has entered. I, too, join no one who congratulates on the courage to go to this parliament two days after the appointment with, at least, such indications and fully agree with my colleague Duraković, who gave the assessment that this is about master's directions and then we'll see what happens next. With that in mind, I'll have a few very specific questions and I'll make a few claims. I would also like to ask to say why today was even going on the appointment of the Council of Ministers chairman and to postpone the appointment of the Council of Ministers for later, and I would like to ask for an interpretation today to be answered both by the Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, appointed chairman and by Parliament's leadership, if necessary. Namely, by Article 9. The Council of Ministers Act is to be appointed after its appointment, he has 30 days to prepare for Parliament's appropriate exposés and that he has 30 days to appoint individual ministers after being appointed. I mean, I'm asking sd one question, maybe it's seemingly technical, but so we don't get into trouble going on holiday, so we can't meet. What is the dynamics of coming to the entire Council of Ministers and to be clear, we have had an scheduled session of the Council of Ministers for the afternoon, or for tomorrow, which should have some technical things that 21 must function in the technical mandate. Take a banal example, we all talk about this, it's not a banal example, but I quote it as an illustration, there should be another story on the agenda about Slovenian milk. The Council of Ministers, in practice, tends, when appointed chairman, if this passes today, can the Council of Ministers make any decisions, does there need to meet? It is normal that the ministries will work in their capacity until new ministers are named, but I wonder later whether the Council of Ministers can act in at least a technical mandate, or whether the Council of Ministers, because today there is not even our current Council of Ministers, who is probably preparing his exposés, so that we are in one situation that it is unclear whether, and I would like to answer this, that we know here in front of parlament that this would not be a matter of interpreting the Council of Ministers, whether he can make decisions that are even a technical character, whether it's a basic technical mandate or not? If, in that light, we were given the answer, if the Council of Ministers were to meet with a mandate, which would possibly be confirmed today, or this prime minister, who is the same prime minister of the other government, but is still the current chairman of the Council of Ministers, whether we should meet with him or not. But I'll go back to something else. We heard here in the opening exposé, everything has no alternative and I totally agree with that. But it's not what we want, it's how it's meant to be done. I would like to hear here from the appointed chairman of the Council of Ministers in what way is thought to measure success in the work, because I am indeed, with the objectives, four objectives are the democratisation of society, the market economy, the rule of law and social justice. I must admit that with these goals of the nature of the party I come from, I can't help but agree with those goals is even a refreshment for me to put such a broad political consensus on one, conditionally speaking, to the goals that are dominant to the left or social democracy, and I think the objectives are extraordinary. That's exactly why I'm interested in how my mind measures the success of getting to that goal. Also, I think it would be good to know what the role of the international community is here, what is the role of the international community here expected? Whether partnership is expected to go towards some kind of ownership or entity in activities further and how realistic it is or perhaps thought that the process would go in another direction. I'm also interested, if not for today, and then in any case for a more serious consideration of the real exposure expected. We heard here last time from this pay phone that every time the High Representative works, he said we were then falling more and more. I am interested, especially in the attitude towards a step forward from last time the High Representative is expected whether he will have to act more or less. I am interested in whether the aim of this council of ministers, such as the Council of Ministers, which is now current and this is the High Representative here, has confirmed that it is his job to lift his job and how realistic it is that in some time horizon this Council of Ministers is going to end this job. I'd also like to know if the priorities that are given here are in the hints, I hope they'll be further. Whether there is agreement and to what extent the consent of political parties that make up the parliamentary majority in them and their agreement with the international community. Also, I want to remind you, last time a lady, a colleague from, I think the SDS asked me a question here. Is it the worst for us and she's got an optimistic response that the worst is behind us. It's perfectly natural that we all know that the worst is behind us because the war is over. However, objectively we all know that we will come at some very difficult time, and that is why I ask the question of how this parliamentary majority has been determined according to the main priorities. 22 It is perfectly clear that the parliamentary majority that I assume will be published here from this pay phone by the chairman, appointed chairman, is perfectly clear that the majority has mathematics, that it has a sufficient number of votes. I personally believe that it has no logic and that it is the parliamentary majority that is opposed to the opposing programmes formed and therefore I am interested in whether or not a common dominant has been found, whether or not some common objectives of these programmes have been found, or whether we can expect to give up some programming goals and whether the job and justice is a document from which we can expect this document to be, then I would be interested in the relationship with the implementation of the accompanying conditions that we have assumed by entering the Council of Europe, then the conditions concerning the Stabilisation and Association Partnership Agreements for Peace, I would like, if not today, then at least in every serious exposure to an assessment very precise and clear way in which these objectives are meant to be achieved. In the end, I want to conclude that even in the means of information today, you could see that the World Monetary Fund or the IMF gave a proper report on the state of the Bosnian-Herzegovina economy. So, Stand Bay arrangement is in its healthy phase. Negotiations are now very active in the operationalisation of some steps of the event, which should again result in the release of money by international financial institutions and its involvement in budgets, both BiH and the entity and I want to realize here that, however, it is entering into a good one, so to speak, the economic framework from which the Council of Ministers is now coming out. I finally want to say that we will be, at least the political party from which I come, we will be critical and we will be fighters against all the anti-reform moves that would possibly be present here, against all kinds of divisions on any basis of this country. I also want the new Council of Ministers and Prime Ministers, the appointed Council of Ministers, as well as the new Council of Ministers, to wish them much happiness and personal health. We congratulate them, for we respect the institutions and will respect them in the future. It is perfectly natural that we are against this parliamentary majority, but I would like it to be known here publicly behind a pay phone which is the parliamentary majority. I know as well as the chairman knows well what the parliamentary majority is, because he considered it my responsibility as a member of Parliament to say what I think we're going to do with this. It is my responsibility as well as the responsibility of each of you, it is my responsibility to take into account my knowledge and my full capacity to participate in just strengthening responsibility for what is written in this material in this exposé. I, truth be told, must admit, take only the first four points. The first point of responsibility for strengthening state institutions. Second, implementing reforms in partnership with the international community. Third, the responsibility of our country to be a strategic geopolitical factor of stability in the region, the responsibility to be an attractive partner for foreign investment. I won't go any further. Don't get me wrong, but the parliamentary majority that gathers today has a certain way behind it that I say gray, has a certain reference to precisely responsibility for these issues, and just when you take the reference list of this parliamentary majority, is that '90. Or '92. Is that '96? In '98, 2000, you can see that this reference list doesn't give me any reason to believe that what it says here will be realized. I'm in other words pessimistic, with the sincere hope that I'm wrong. We will do everything in our power to respect the institutions and to make a contribution to what I've just said not to be an accurate prognosis. But let someone who has knowledge of it, what is the reference list of this parliamentary majority, I trust my colleague, Martin Raguž, what he said that wishes are good and that people believe that they have changed and I sincerely wish you happiness, and 23 I wish that in a year or two all together we realize that this parliamentary majority has really changed. It'll be luck for this country. I congratulate once again on the courage, courage, and the greatest risk we can take in our lives that we don't risk and that's why I appreciate this risk and this kind of courage in the hope that what I'm saying is not true. In the hope that time will deny me and that this land will prove to be a great step forward. I thank you, and I don't expect all the answers today, but I expect you to take this, however, with one dose of sensitivity that we all need together, because in the end this is our country and there's no reason for us to experience and in any other way what we're doing than something we all, on the condition that we've all gone behind our backs, crossed two fingers when we took an oath in this house. Well, thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6808	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. Mr. Špirić. Mr. Raguž replika.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6809	I fully respect, respect Mr. Lagumdžija's performance, I find him absolutely politically legitimate from the aspect of the party he represents, but here he said a few things that refer to people who are first in this home. Well, since he mentioned mine, and since I'm in this home for the first time, I want to say that I'm perfectly clear about the jurisdiction of the House of Representatives and the way we've all been elected to him. So, it's not a national criterion, it's a criterion for election units and citizens. But my intervention on exposés in terms of the character of this country was intended to warn that the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Terzić and the Council at whose direction, I hope that he will be, will propose laws not only to this home but also to the House of Peoples. So this parliament is not just from one home and the structure of this parliament shows what a complex and demanding structure of BiH is. I am so that we all make it more functional, European and democratic.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6810	Thank you. Mr. Lagumdžija's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6811	First, I want to tell my colleague Raguž that I, indeed, when I was speaking and I was paying attention to the fact that some MPs are being called here – representatives of the presentation of my people, Mr Raguž, I didn't mean you, because you didn't even say that. But I answered, and I have a need to answer because you gave one supplement on which you insisted in Mr. Terzić's exposé and I fully agree with that supplement. So that's why I came forward so you wouldn't get the impression that you practically made a distinction with your replica between what I said and what you said when it came to your supplement. However, you are the man who was quite present in this House, regardless of what you were not a representative. You were a minister, so you know very well the experience of this home, even in a position in which I sincerely hope that Mr. Terzić will not be, if nothing for the ceremony of the act of today.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6812	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Špirić and let Mr. Ćeman Mirsad prepare himself. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6813	Madam Chairman, distinguished fellow MPs, esteemed guests, I think the election of the Prime Minister or prime minister for the new assembly of the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina could in truth have been a solemn act for the citizens of BiH, so that the proposing and those preparing the parliamentary assembly session decided to act as a solemn act. We passed the Law on Public TV Service. We were able to bring this ceremony closer to the citizens of BiH today, to see what pleasure they expect in the next four years, if that pleasure is true. So we could and there's still a chance, but I'm afraid we're still not sure the results will be that good to hide it from the eyes of the citizens. We are not even able to call what is called a government anywhere in the world, and if you look at the Council of Ministers Act imposed by the High Representative, it clearly states that it is the concept of a modern European government and if it is the only concession that SDA has given to the SDS from Republika Srpska, so that it can tell citizens that it is not a government, it is the Union of Ministers by a new concept of work, etc. Then public transmissions serve to bring their political leaders closer to our citizens and that is why no one should feel the need to be angry. So it's about the term of office and the exposé of the prime minister whether someone liked him, someone more, someone less or someone was showing serious reservations. What I'm saying is we won't be able to listen to the new exposés of the prime minister. I don't even think that would be good. We can only get the programme of work of the new Council of Ministers, which will be based again on the ministry law, which will again have to be imposed by the High Representative in order for the new prime minister of Bosnia and Herzegovina to manage the ministries. Why don't we publicly say that by Monday that law must see the light of day. We can't do it by regular procedure, we can't do it in the skid, but then comes that song that I said "little me, little you" it goes from the Office of the High Representative, more me than you, because we won't honestly talk about what's going on with our citizens, and that's how it's going to end. That's why I am aware of the certain restriction Mr. Terzić had when he wrote what he called an approach speech or an access exposure or an exposé, whatever anyone wants, let him call. And I think it's really this time at the time of the economic crisis, but we're masters to call it a crisis, and lately I hear people say it's not Bosnia and Herzegovina in the crisis, but in the transition. But I don't think the workers are going to be more comfortable tomorrow because the word crisis is going to be replaced by the word transition, because transition is also a process like the crisis process. It may take shorter or longer and will not have breakfast, lunch and dinner with a story of reforms, but essentially through the implementation of these reforms. So I think there were also great restrictions to write some I'd say exposures that citizens expect, but here's to be honest with you, we're talking about a political framework. So let me talk about the political framework. I have no intention of harming anyone in my presentation, and therefore I ask you, I am not calling anyone, so on the lines, but I would love it if those who have built up or decided, the politicians who have negotiated and decided to establish power in the way it is being built might have had a little more hearing about the political frameworks right now. I would be glad to see that in public today the SDS, HDZ and SDA and the PDP and I don't know who else will make the parliamentary majority come out and tell the citizens – we agreed on this, this, this, this, this and that and Bosnia and Herzegovina in four years will be that, that, that and that. If they did, it doesn't matter which people the ministry belongs to. Who will be the Minister of the Interior, who will pursue whom, who will judge, etc. And that's why I'm afraid we won't have a chance to listen to new exposés, because there won't be any political consent between partners. There is no agreement, ladies and gentlemen, only for choice. And that's what I'm afraid of. I have to be honest that I'm very afraid of it, because if it wasn't for that, we would have this story today that is very interested in the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 25 Another thing that should have been taken into account, so we are all witnesses and we believe in the political life of this country that there are certain reserves of individual states and even the strongest states of the United States of America on the concept of forming exclusively government from national options. We must not be deaf to this knowing what the United States has done for Bosnia and Herzegovina, knowing that their help has been unbiased in what quality and help raises to a much higher level, but I have the impression that those who have decided to oversaw it will talk about how they have won the European concept over the American. But I fear that the price of such a policy will just be paid by the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I think that our policy must be a policy of adaptation, not a policy of conflict. Why am I saying this? I speak for the reason that the chairman of the presidency, Mr Šarović, when he appointed the prime minister, said that the government in Bosnia and Herzegovina would be formed at the will of the citizens, not the will of the United States. And maybe he could have thought so. But I think it's in such a way to declare it is not good for this country and its citizens, it's not good for entities and I'm afraid of the consequences of such a policy. That's what I'm saying in public. If the coalition partners agreed that the US administration in Bosnia and Herzegovina that has done much for Bosnia and Herzegovina in this way reciprocate with a light slap, is it working for the Algerian group and supported both the SDS and I don't know who else, then I'm afraid the reaction won't be good. Then I'm afraid that everything called healthy ino capital and it won't be so easy to get into Bosnia and Herzegovina and it seems to me that it should have been wiser and smarter and that it might have been better to listen to such tones in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm not, right now, to tell you the fan of any international office of any state... I've always been on some sort of arrangement of those and sanctions. But I am a man who publicly wants to talk in this country whether anyone likes it or not. So, the strongest answer in both democratic and economic terms, so that's all I'm talking about is just expecting or suggesting. And no one will publicly say in this country that they will not support what the parliamentary majority gets. But those who invest, who give help, who give grace in this country have the right to say what they want. At least that's what they're entitled to. And I would love it if those who have agreed to reject that hearing would say what led them to do so if it had been announced from other European centres of strong states that the possible financial trunk could be covered. And that would be good to hear as well as we would if we knew what the parliamentary majority is doing today, and I will be the last to look forward to the failures or mistakes of any prime minister, including Mr. Terzić, because I do not live on the moon, and everyone else on earth so that mistakes make me happy. And I'll be happy to be in a position to congratulate on my successes, not to talk about failures. But I'm not convinced for these reasons I've been talking about. So I think it would be good if there were no sentences in this exposé that I believe that the practice of those who want to increase any success in advance or seek an alibi for even a failure. She's burdening the appetites. This is the opening exposé of a man who offers solutions, not the weak ones he thinks of. Either nobody has a magic stick to finish these processes overnight or in one term. The mandate has not even begun, but others are required in a forced one, at least to interpret it, or to have national, cultural and other differences as an advantage rather than a cause of conflict and intolerance as if four years of war had been an education in killing. Will anyone ask why they served? Were these educational years as they disappeared one, the other and the third. So, it would be good if they weren't in the text, if they didn't exist. But what I want to ask the new prime minister is how the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina and he, as its prime minister, intends to provide new funds for the government's functioning, in particular for the new ministries, with the fact that we know that we have provided a budget for only six ministries. Do we know now, does the prime minister, do the political options that create 26 new powers that are missing and in which way and from which we intend to take them? So we'd better have an answer. I wish I had an answer to those questions. What I'm also interested in is how it is meant to secure itself, which is the story and these were the requirements and were meant to provide itself at all and whether a political agreement has been reached, Bosnia and Herzegovina's single army as one of the conditions for entering a partnership for peace or eventual entry into NATO alliance, or whether we will continue to try to make the Secretary of the Permanent Military Committee a member of the Council of Ministers, and then do two years unprepared to tell our citizens that this is a reform, so that time will only define it, and we will credit it as merits I don't know which political options etc. So I'd like to know if a deal's been made. Whether it's in this term or not. These are things that interest the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and whether there is already a way to know who will do what when it comes to security. Will the entity ministries worry about the safety of small and large cattle? This Sipa embassy and personality agency. Some ministry for what's-his-name, for security will it take care of everyone together again? Who will arrest and prosecute war criminals or defendants, possibly accused of war criminals? Have they agreed that those who went to three sides in 92 under the direction of the same political options will be tried in the Sarajevo Court of Justice, which provides for a criminal division to prosecute war crimes. Of course, those who are not for The Hague tribunal. These are all difficult questions. But I will applaud those who succeed in their resolution and those who publicly tell the public what awaits them. Will these same heroes, on the orders of their party leaders, be the first cases at the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina? What is waiting for those who went after them? Do we have the strength to say, has a consensus been reached or will we part on those issues that we've been diverged on so far? I know it's a tough job, and I know that the prime minister may not have that consent right now, but if he has it, it would be good to hear it. And it is impossible to say that there is a political framework on which the ruling set agreed that it is not a coalition but a folk now some new model partnership for reform. I find strange miracles – a partnership for reform A people agree on nothing except that they can't even name, the Law says that it would be good for the prime minister to appoint ministers, and he himself writes can't until they give me the OHR and High Representative. The question now arises as to what kind of exposure we are asking the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and may anyone who has their own vision of solving problems in this country be a candidate for one post in the first place. Is he threatening to be removed? And this is the situation in which this country is located and the question is raised, so are we ready to open a debate about it? The other thing that I'm very interested in is how it's not mentioned, of course, in the exposé is the attitude towards the neighbors. I also think about Zagreb and Belgrade and whether or not an agreement has been reached between the SDS, HDZ and the SDA, whether the suit is against the neighbour. No matter how he understood. What she meant. Best way to foster good neighbourly relations. And you have to divorce a woman when you're suing a marriage. As some good neighbourly relations are now possible and how they agreed that it would be a process that would go towards a good situation that interests the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and whether, perhaps, if we did not reach an agreement here, the parliamentary majority succeeded in agreeing on the financing of the lawsuit. And that's good to know. And what's still good, which, in my view, would be correct, is that at least somewhere this exposé mentioned the Constitution and the Dayton Peace Agreement as a framework within the 27 that will take place all the things concerning Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think it's too early to leave it out textually, let alone the ingredients. So these are all things that I would personally like to know. I guess the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, too, and that is why I would like to hear the agreements on these issues. Of course, I will express my position on the mandate and new composition of the Council of Ministers by voting like all of you in this House, but I do not think that the parliamentary majority has managed to agree and answer key questions that interest ordinary people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In my view, the agreement has only been reached on the schedule of a few representatives of all parties who want to participate in the government. And therefore, I ask you, I think it would be good for this country to always carry out critical tones, not only of the opposition, but of the parliamentary majority for those things we know in advance that are not of interest to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6814	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. Are these replicas just or are they discussions? You have the replica. Mr. Jovanović's replica, and then let Mr. Ćeman be prepared. After him, Mr. Paravac, then Mrs. Palavrić. Replica, so Mr Miloš Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6815	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, has always been the one who loses, he has the right to be angry. I just want to say again because of the public that in the last two years in this country there has been an alliance for changes in which of the two ministers and four deputies from Republika Srpska were from a party belonging to Mr Špirić. Now, look who put us in this situation. Now let these others show if they can do anything. It's another thing. What President Šarović mentioned. He gave a good answer. The government is wanted by the people. The government is not wanted in any embassy, no matter what. So neither in Vienna nor anywhere, but the government gives the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6816	I thank Mr. Jovanović. Discussion, that's a reply to the replica, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6817	Ladies and gentlemen, at least here, I don't believe that those who are thinking realize that there's a story here that loses has the right to be angry. Being an opposition is a terrible thing, a beautiful thing. To be an opposition means to love the state in which he lives and to look for progress as well as to be a government, if it is as defined as Jovanović and the SDS imagine. I don't have a reason, especially, because I'm not looking for anything. I don't care who forms power. To make a state of the object you're sitting on, you can't make it look like Nikola Špirić is the worst thing in it. But she is not pretending to do Nikola Špirić and you Jovanović. It's about those mortals who are already 28 today hungry. For them, the state is made and made heavy and that's why it's good and that's why it's good to have opposition. Don't be nervous. It's nice for you. I know it's not nice to listen because you've told people other stories. I know many will have to leave Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska for your new story and I know it. Don't be mad at me for mentioning the president. He's my president, too. I'm a legalist, but I can tell you what I don't like about my president, unless you're in love and you're not thinking of dating the presidents.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6818	All right, come on, please. Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6819	So this is what you need to talk seriously about, I don't think you can talk about the exposé or what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6820	Okay. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6821	Wait a minute, please. Don't be nervous. What's this? So you have most of them you'll choose everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6822	Do you think I'm nervous? Bog forbid. But I'm just saying the Rules of Procedure said how much you can speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6823	No, please. Whoever loses has the right to be angry. I beg you, the concept must not be based on it. It must not be anyone who wants to be a new authority based on the mistakes of the previous one, but makes these mistakes not. If we tell citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina how they have sinned before us, it's hard for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6824	Okay. I thank you, Mr. Špirić. So there's no anxiety, but I have to look at the Rules of Procedure, because I have to warn you. You had 30 seconds, a minute and so on, that's it. I have to react, of course, because other people have what to say here, MPs. So no more of these replicas. Wait a minute, wait a minute. Discussion. Let's go with the discussion. We're moving on. What's he blaming the quote on? To Spiric's presentation, yes. So tell me what's wrong with the quote? Wait a minute, so I can give you my word. Please. Well, you discussed it, sir. You've already had a replica and a discussion. Tell me what's wrong with the quote, so I'll give you my word. You have 30 seconds for the wrong quote. Here you go. Please, nice. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6825	A false allegation when it comes to the meaning of MEP Jovanović in a political sense when he calls for the people's will and that the national parties have received that power, etc. I agree with that international community, the offices, we don't just need it to take fate into our own hands, but if you as a national party have clearly said on the basis of your programme that you can't go together and you've been supported by the people and the SDS and the HDZ and the SDA. Now you've joined together. Do you have the consent of the people you call upon? Did you, as a manager, actually cheat on the people? Well, that's the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6826	Please, nice. The discussion now has Mr. Ćeman finally. Let Mr. Paravac prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6827	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, I have listened and read it with attention, some call it so that Mr. Terzić did not so list it, the exposé, or the approach to the appointment of the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. I share an opinion with those who have already said this, or feel that in the topics that we could hear and pawns that will be prepared there is a wide enough framework and enough acceptable policies to make Bosnia and Herzegovina in the next four years, and this is, therefore, the mandate on which the account should be made not only democratic, not only independent sovereign, etc. but also a prosperous land for the lives of those who live therein. In that sense, the questions that have also been raised, whether or not they could have been asked, by reason of the character of this introductory presentation, are whether or not they could have been asked whether she was standing, there is indeed a bar in the implementing sense of the things to be answered. I am pleased with Mr. Terzić's statement that the Ministerial Council programme, or with the team that proposes this home, will confirm that we will not only get to know more precisely, but that we will be offered a more precise way to reach these solutions. That is not why, there should be no surprise, no news of me personally, I will support the proposal that Mr. Terzić be the chairman of the Council of Ministers in the next four-year period. This opportunity to still take advantage, given that the debate in some segments, though, as Mr Lagumdžija said, was not beyond the topic, or the agenda point, but perhaps for this occasion whether unnecessary or excessive, but in any case perhaps useless for what we are doing today, only two three remarks. In my deep conviction, and based on what as a citizen of this country and a man who has been in some places over the past few years, such as this home that has decided on the fate of the citizens of this country, so by my deep conviction for this country and its citizens, the esteemed gentlemen have not, although the politics of some has been different, but, in principle, they are not and should not be the problem of the national party, but they have been the other problem of national exclusive policies. And so, recalling a story that you probably all heard before the experiment as a method of scientific knowledge was introduced into me, I would say broad use, and the story says that in the school discussions some instead of opening their mouths to the horse and looking at how many teeth were outwitted, so 30 barely came to know how many, and some younger reformers suggested that they look at the horse's mouth and determine how many teeth it had. So, instead of having over-school discussions about what it is and what is not a solution for Bosnia and who is and who is not guilty and whether there is room for national or no place in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I would suggest that we simply approach one experiment that has long become a method of knowledge. What I mean to say. I would like to say that here are any of you present or to engage or engage as you wish a competent person or institution, let them make a hundred or a thousand and a hundred questions about the current issues back six or sixteen years that concern Bosnia and Herzegovina and the citizens of this country to whom they choose to answer here and the individual MPs or parties that represent, so instead of a school debate, who is, and who is not overpaid to be reformed, reformed, or reformed, and who isn't, whether there is perhaps ekgzatic information about what he's been up to, who has acted during what period, who is who and why he stands for today. Recently at a gathering attended by a few of you present a gentleman from the white world to say from the white democratic world he said I agree that very often the names of parties and programmes cheat. So to avoid cheating on names or programs here, we're running extreme tests. I expect and therefore end Mr. Chairman that the Council of Ministers, who will offer us their programme, and also the agenda and content of this Parliament's work, will actually show that indeed some of the questions that we have heard here today, here are the candidates for the Chairman-in-Office of the Council not only questions for the current, current assembly, or most of them here but questions for all citizens. So these questions are questions for everyone, not for the current majority. I hope that we will do exactly as we do and act with the help of these people, that is, according to their proposals, in the interest of all citizens and positions and opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6828	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Mr. Paravac, First Vice Chairman. Have Mrs. Palavrić prepare.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6829	Honorable MPs, distinguished guests, I'm sorry I can't talk about the platform or the exposé, but I have to look into some attacks on the SDS since I'm one of the vice presidents of the SDS. I cannot accept the fear of the people with the national parties, and I see the SDS as a national party that in the protection of national interests manifests it through the protection of Republika Srpska. We promised it to our voters and provided through these election results the absolute protection of Republika Srpska on three levels. We promised to get the president, we got the president of Republika Srpska. We created the majority in Parliament and we have absolute protection so that Republika Srpska does not collapse from the inside. And we're the most responsible for that besides the rest. At the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have been running for our presidency member, he has gained the highest confidence in the Serbian people and is tasked with protecting Republika Srpska's interests at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina along with us members of parliament here. 31 And on the third level, we firmly promised our voters that we would finally have a foreign minister from the Serbian people to protect his diplomatic activities between the other and Republika Srpska from some unprincipled attacks from outside. We've made absolute protection. Therefore, we can now freely direct all our positive energy towards reform courses. And that's what we want and that's what we're looking for. And I'd like to put an end to it sometime. They didn't challenge the war by the national parties, and anyone who says, let them remember, I'm going to remind him a little bit of history. We fight here from 1875 to '92. A year. There was no SDS at the time, neither HDZ nor U.S.A. If I have something left of Marxism, then the cause and reason of the wars are purely economic, and they're somewhere a little further, and we've always been an instrument. Besides, come on, we don't just have to mention '90s. and '92. A year. Let's mention '96. The same national parties that absolutely won formed power and began to create some new life under the Dayton Agreement. And today these laws work. And there's at least a change in those laws. Those who were after us came by the will of some people, had absolutely no support from their people. Here's how they ended up. So, I think it's time for you to take defeat in sports, accept a constructive opposition here, act civilizedly, and if you don't have non-civilization methods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6830	Thank you. Mrs. Palavrić. Mrs Palavrić, Mr Avdić expressed the need for a replica. I apologize to you for getting up. Here's a brief Mr. Avdić, then you, Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6831	I apologize, but the chairman reacts when it is discussed simply about the exposé and simply about the appointment of the Council of Ministers' mandates, and allows for very toleranceally simple narrow party speeches, as well as the false political allegations and the redistribution of history, etc. etc. So are they really sitting in The Hague simply responding to economic problems in the former country? I'm having an affair.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6832	I thank Mr. Avdić. Mrs. Palavrić. Wait a minute, then wait, Mrs. Palavrić, so we have a replica of a few on this exhibit. Mr. Žigić, then Lagumdžija. Replications.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6833	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman of the Council of Ministers, I'd like to ask the chairperson not to scare us here anymore and not pose a threat. Enough of this people and threats both to the citizens and to this Bosnia and Herzegovina, any threats have led to a disaster once. Do not repeat these mistakes, because there is no reason to threaten anyone, this is Parliament where different attitudes can be expressed in the way it is expressed in parliaments. And I would really ask that we respect each other and that this is how we communicate and look for solutions to get out of the crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6834	Thank you. You'll only get to Lagumdžija so you'll give the answer to the replica. Please. That's the procedure. Mr. Lagumdžija, then Mr. Paravac needs to make a reply to the replicas. To this replica that has been shown so far.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6835	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Presidency, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I have no idea how to replicate everything Mr. Palavrac has said. At the very least, the Rules of Procedure won't let me do such a thing because three minutes is too little to be serious about all of this. However, I only owe one little illustration as a total replica to say. Since '96. Mr. Palavrac said that since '96. to this council of ministers were created by responding to the laws adopted in this House on which we are today acting, and thus he wanted to illustrate to us how much was done, and we, who are still sitting in the Council of Ministers, inherited it. I would ask you without any replication to run a small analysis as a new college and to share for the next session of the House of Representatives how many laws have been passed since '96. until 2000 in this House and a list of these laws and then do the same for 2000 until today. I think you'll be shocked if you live in an illusion that since '96. By 2000, there was some huge number of laws that we live under. If we put more into this game and institutions and strengthen the institutions in which we all swear now, and in which we support the prime minister in his efforts to strengthen institutions, then you will come to shocking conclusions. So I would ask you, Mr. Chairman, to make one for next time to be informed as members of Parliament. And the law under which we live is the BiH Citizenship Act that has been imposed in that period since '96. until 2000 and which we are trying to change today in one of his absolutely discriminatory provisions which draws root in the Dayton Agreement in a completely discriminatory way in which everyone is justified that they did not put it there in Dayton, and it is well known, unfortunately, who did it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6836	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. Just a momentary, slowly, are all replicas. All references to Mr. Paravac's exposure. Then Mr. Blagojević answered first. Mr. Blagojevć Mirko, then Mr. Gligorić, then Mr. Kragulj. Short replicas, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6837	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would refer to this threat from Mr. Paravac. Some fellow MPs misread him, so they reacted. He did not threaten lawmakers from the Bosniak people's ranks, but literally tried to threaten the Serb people's MPs. Although we Serbian radicals have Googled these threats, we have experienced it, lynching, shagging, persecution by the SDS throughout the war since '92. until '96. And he can't scare us, especially me when I know what I did for them in 33 '98. the years when they were scattered in forests and mountains. That I, as chairman of the MUP Control Commission, then gathered all SDS leaders and expressed protest as a representative of the commission and brought them out of the woods where they were hidden. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6838	You see, I ask you therefore to conduct a debate within what is subject. I'll let that happen. Please, it is according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Jusufović, please, you will get the word if you ask. But please, very brief replica Mr. Paravac answer, let's move on to the essence of things please.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6839	Ladies and gentlemen, I find this very important because in this House it has simply been threatened by the MPs and I feel that it is necessary to react, because I believe that in my discussion when I spoke of a coalition relationship which in the structure of that government and put its remarks on the ground that it is not necessary, that it is not natural and that it will not lead us into the future, it is said that the MPs who have, in fact, acted in this way have received criticism and threat. Last time MP Lolić spoke here and supported some harmless agenda item from the SDS, they came out and said he thought he was coming back to Banja Luka. Now we have a situation of another kind so when in principle and as an MP, because you have the right in this House and you are protected by immunity to say what you want. It is also referred to now in another way because someone does not like to hear anything if it is true. And for that reason, on behalf of all MPs, I ask that Mr Paravac apologize to the MPs for the recklessness he has stated.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6840	Please, Mr. Kragulj, are you staying so we can conclude? Let's start with the discussion. Let's get on with it, actually.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6841	Dear Presidency, dear fellow Members of Parliament, I think a nervousness has been expressed here by mentioning the civilization and non-civilization forms of action in Parliament. I think Mr. Paravac, I don't know what he meant, and in any case you should at least explain and apologize to this House because I don't think anyone should be threatened here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6842	Thank you. Mr. Paravac, reply to the replicas, then Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6843	I don't know what that threat is. This is where the man, if he defends himself, threatens. Is when he defends the interests of his party and his views, then threatens. I'm just saying I don't let 34 scare the people of the national SDS that there's going to be a war and that the SDS is the cause of the war. And please nice and Mr. Avdić, it wasn't Sparta who attacked Troy for a beautiful Jelene, but because she took control of the Aegean Sea. Nor did she attack Serbia because Gavrilo killed Ferdinand. It's because it needs to go east.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6844	Mrs. Seada Palavrić has a word. May I have your attention, please? May I have your attention, please? Let Mr. Žigić prepare himself for the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6845	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have really been trying to contain myself from the beginning of this debate and not to replicate and not to react and really do everything I can to discuss this issue properly and to do what we are here to do. However, I must remind us, it seems necessary that we are not here to question the character of war since '91. until '95. A year. Our mission is what the leaders of our parties signed through the Dayton Agreement. So we're building a state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're not even here to run an election campaign. That's not really why we're here. The election is over, the citizens and the peoples have said theirs. And each of us has as much trust as the citizens and the people we've got. Some so-called moderate parties are trying to transfer the situation from Republika Srpska to this House of Representatives. I sometimes have the impression that indeed these moderate parties are not the aim of this parliament working and respecting that statement, the solemn statement it has made, but of obstructing every possible work of this house. It doesn't matter what part of the agenda is. Not at all. Today it's the prime minister, last time it was something else, next time it'll be something else. And sometimes I really get the impression that a scenario has been worked out for every variant. And that's what I can't accept as a member of the state parliament that I can't participate in. Is there a limit? Is there a limit to these obstructions? In doing so, the truth is constantly being accused. I notice accused members of this SDS house of being for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Well, this is Bosnia and Herzegovina's home. We went to the polls for Bosnia and Herzegovina. If we wanted to be on some other level, then we should have gone to that level. But here we are all members of the House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And when it comes to the Alijansa that the people did not choose two years ago, citizens have had the opportunity to experience her recipes in the past two years and see where we are. I am sorry that some members of this Alliance home say they are surprised by the rhetoric of the SDA's prime minister who says -- Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizens, not the peoples, not the nationals, etc. I'm sorry that they're not following the obvious political scene and I won't talk about the past, nor will I ever say that the SDA was nationalist, fought for national interests, but they ignored or predicted that the SDA had explicitly, had the 3rd Congress and explicitly said that it was a political centre party. Let's not ignore that. I can't be a nationalist because someone claims I am a nationalist. I guess I am who I am, and it would be my turn to see us as people. And in the end, I think that really many people in this house should ask themselves the most well-intentioned thing – are we citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina or some of the neighbouring countries? Are we members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament or of the parliament of another country? Let's ask ourselves a question. Let's get this straight with us so we can work in this 35-man parliament. And so I ask you to really, especially say with the right so-called. moderate, for God forbid if they are truly moderate, then woe to me and woe to this people. Prove that you are moderate, that you are greater reformers than the people of the U.S.A. and that Bosnia and Herzegovina and its citizens are at the top of your interest under number one. I know that individuals are dissatisfied that even without their votes, the mandate of the Council of Ministers can be confirmed. And I was unhappy, not saying who loses has the right to be angry. But there is no way to show our discontent by obstructing, stalling for five hours, talking about what is not the subject of the agenda, not what is. I did everything I could not to cause replicas. But let us, people, bear in mind the fact that before us is the opening speech of the Council of Ministers' mandate, which is really a good basis for the work of the Council of Ministers and who, as the prime minister himself said, will be completed through the exposés of what the ministers of all three constituent nations intend to do. That's what the man said at the very beginning. So, I call on you, please let's give our work serious and let's not worry about it, when we say the citizens didn't get any laws, it's a expensive one-session, let's not make that false concern out in a way that we don't do anything. Let's decide to confirm the mandate for the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6846	Thank you. Mr. Milorad Živković, then Mr. Lagumdžija, the replicas of Mrs. Palavrić's exposure. Is it? And be prepared after the replica Mr. Žigić unless Mrs. Palavrić has answers to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6847	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I want to thank my esteemed Mr Lagumdžija, because there have been several false allegations first of all, but I have waited for it to be accumulated, to thank him for the warning that the SNSD is among other parties with the civil option and that, among other things, it is good people who are Bošnjak and Hrvat, but it simply brings a debate where the national parties are obviously playing moderate parties, and then these moderate ones, and we are moderate and there comes to say that Mrs Palavrić is guilty. In which these moderate parties did not come to obstruct the work of this Parliament. If the debate on the mandate, or the proposal of the prime minister for you here, it is not for us from moderate parties, and we will continue to hold this debate and do not feel that we are obstructing the work of this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6848	Mr. Lagumdžija. Replica. Žigić and Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6849	Dear members of the presidency, Mr. Chairman, I'm really sorry that today, I really think the solemn session of Parliament so we should lead it, that it is moving this way, but I am obliged, I would not react to the moderate parties from Republika Srpska attacking the SDS here, then the SDA defends it, that's not my intention to talk about it. It all remains written down and everyone will give their own judgment about it. 36 But you, Mrs. Palavrić, have won, it is not at all controversial. We are not angry, against, we will work responsibly and preserve the dignity of this House. But I am obliged to say this on your claim that the Alijansa did not choose the people two years ago. It's one of the least said tasteless findings. The Alliance had 23 MPs, you're with your partners now defending 19. That's how the people chose. So the people chose what they chose two years ago and the Alliance formed power. Time will give judgment on her. The people gave their judgment in this election and you won. Then I ask you, did the people know that by voting for you for the U.S.A., they would actually vote to win the SDS? Did the people know? Did you tell him when you invited him to win, that you would defend the SDS here from other parties? This same question can be asked by the gentlemen of the SDS who I won't ask in order not to draw unnecessary replicas here and not to violate an idyllic idyll that exists at the mathematical level, and on a logical level, God save us from that idyll. This parliament in its power, I hope it will be strong enough to do so. On my part, I'll do anything to help us and God by watching us help ourselves, so I guess he'll meet us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6850	Mrs. Palavrić, reply to the replicas. He can't take it anymore. He can't. He can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6851	I just need to correct the allegations that Mr. Lagumdžija has twisted. I have made it quite clear that I am disappointed that the party considered moderate is a SNSD accusing here of members of the SDS who deems unmoderate, not reform, not Bosnian for the construction of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm shocked by that, and I'm sorry to have obstructed the work of this house, because I don't feel like sitting in vain until I sit in vain. Mr. Živković is quite right when he says the debate is not obstruction. But there's a scenario for every variant. There is and that is my answer. So I ask Mr. Lagumdžija not to spark my words. He's got a stenogram.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6852	Mr. Žigić answered the question. Here you go, Mr. Žigić. What a replica. I have to, to give you my word, you're replicating every discussion. Tell me what you're replicating. Who do you have a replica on? Tell me what you're replicating. I beg the ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, all of you who have purpose, if there is therefore such here, and I see that there are such, that from this session that should be a solemn act do something else, I invite you not to do it. We're doing a very responsible job for this country today. Please. No, no, no, Mr. Gligorić, no. I showed that I did. Mr. Gligorić, I am one of 42 MPs here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6853	The very important question, ladies and gentlemen, is when is mentioned here, when the lady mentioned Suada means the character of war. And I remember in the last session when the SDA said there was an aggression against Bosnia and Herzegovina, then the SDS came out and said it wasn't. Given that this has been the subject of many debates in Parliament all the time, I would like to say today that the SDS in this coalition relationship has succeeded, that it means these demands that the aggression has been carried out on Bosnia and Herzegovina by the SDA in this Parliament that it has succeeded and that in this way such a single desire and such a constant in Parliament is a dangerous phenomenon which could have been politicised and led to the heat that it has agreed with the SDA partnerly and that this is no longer spoken in Parliament, but that it was a civil war. It really calms me down, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6854	Please, please, just a minute. Please. So we must lead, Mr. Blagojević. What have you got? It's a replica. Here you go, Mr. Blagojević. Have Mr. Žigić prepare for the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6855	Gentlemen, I'd like to rephrase briefly to Mr. Chairman, as he insists here he's trying to charge here with a pretentious opposition to obstruction. However, during today's session, there is nothing to suggest that we have tried in any way to obstruct the work of this session and only when the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers is elected, will you see the true role of the opposition and the obstruction of the work of this Parliament and, of course, the work of the position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6856	Thank you, Mr. Blagojević. I didn't call anyone individually. I'm just inviting you all together to understand the moment we're in and the act we're supposed to join. So that's what it's all about, and I guess everyone will agree that there have been unnecessary discussions and unnecessary replicas here. That's my opinion. I'm right about that. Mr. Žigić answered the question. Have Mr. Bešlagić prepare himself. Discussions. And Mr. Potočnik, after Mr. Bešlagić. Discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6857	Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be brief and try to say a few sentences that I hope will not cause replication. For today, there really was a lot of replicas. First, I would like to congratulate Mr. Terzić on his courage and hope that there will be enough responsibility. Personally, I think it's about a responsible man, a man who knows what's waiting for him. A team before there are two responsibilities to me. It is the responsibility against the already started processes and what has been done these two years and in this parliament, as well as in the Council of Ministers. I would, in some ways, like to express my respect for what has been done so far in the Council of Ministers and how the Council of Ministers has worked and for certain that much has been done for the past two years, especially two years, and that it has been done best to say that there are 20 laws and more laws that this House of Representatives has not verified, it has not approved. I also want to talk about responsibility. I would blame here, perhaps in this approach, everyone should divide or divide what these 9 points are, or 9 responsibilities, as stated here that part of the responsibility or main responsibility stands right in front of this House or the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina. How ready we will be to participate what is called reform, what is called to impose reforms, to create these reforms, etc. I'm sure 20 or 38 or more of the laws I'm talking about, standing here in this house, are no encouragement to the new council of ministers, no matter what composition. Personal, I'm talking personal. But I hope that this part of our responsibility will take over and help, not the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers will be and will pass, people will change, chairs will change, but we will take over their share of responsibility and simply do that what is needed by Bosnia and Herzegovina, that is optimism and hope that it can be better, be restored for the next year, two. Because here, the Council of Ministers' mandate has said well that we have a slightly longer journey to those true optimism and better days in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But at the same time, I would pray that when we discuss the programme of work that will be the programme of this Parliament, or this home, the Council of Ministers' work programme, to support this necessary optimism with concrete moves that it, which the new council of ministers will do to make us all feel better. I couldn't have this exposé, or this approach exposure being on the 20-30s page. I don't appreciate it against the number of sides, but against the commitment that is clearly formulated here in these nine points. It's a commitment that we've been devoting ourselves about for a long time or what we've been discussing. I think there's one concession around these nine points. There are nine points here, surely there are many more questions that will be opened. I will be one of those people who will support Mr. Terzić for this post, for this responsible duty to discuss more about the six-month and annual report that he and the Council of Ministers will submit. And I think it's going to be the best parameter of whether we did it or if we're going to succeed or not after six months. I know someone will say that Bosnia is full of experiments, that experiments cost, etc., I'm talking about Bosnia and Herzegovina. But I believe there will be enough strength in the Council of Ministers and responsibilities to create together with them something called better for all of us in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6858	I thank Mr. Žigić. Mr. Bešlagić and finally behind Mr. Bešlagić Mr. Potočnik and I have no more applications for discussion. Mr. Moranjkić also answers Mr. Moranjkić. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6859	Dear Presidency, Mr. Terzić, allow me to share my discussion in two parts. I am starting with the fact that as members of Parliament, we did not have to know Mr Terzić. And that's why I think you need to.....put in more detail. Because only from some data could you ask yourself if you are citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina? You know. I mean, Adnan Terzić was born in Zagreb, the Republic of Croatia, and that is all the data on the other hand, a little more support for certain things where you were. I'm talking about just not doubting you. The reason for my doubt is that you're as long as my father was, and I trusted my father deeply, because I know that the pants could never fail. You know. And that's the thing I appreciate and I think in that sense. I'd like to ask you for one so we can just have an insight into it. Another thing he would suggest and which is very clear and loud. Today, you failed to submit exposés of the work of the Council of Ministers or ministers, and you said you would do so the moment you had the Council of Ministers. According to everything we know, you'll get packages. I would love it when you open a package of people's names, that just by respecting all of this, and even Mr Paravac's words, you give a proposal on which we, as MPs of this House 39, will be able to express ourselves with one note and ask that you take the document, job and justice as an element that will be processed perhaps in more detail, because it leads us precisely to solving all these problems that you have taken. And the second post-admission conditions of the Council of Europe as elements that dictate to us that we, as parliamentarians who have adopted or complemented this Parliament, or simply commit to what the document says. And once again wishing you luck in your further work, I would like to point out that today's discussions, in my opinion, were aimed at giving it to you through the Council of Ministers' programme and the presentation of the Council of Ministers, and I said with respect and respect what Mr. Paravac said you have in mind and to explain and give us answers to all the almost questions that were needed here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6860	Thank you, Mr. Bešlagić. Mr. Mladen Potočnik and finally prepare Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6861	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs and honored guests. The peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina directly chose the legislative authority and the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina have shown no confidence in the current policy by their modest appearance in the elections. That's why I ask you not to be involved in a crime against the peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because they didn't deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6862	Thank you very much. Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6863	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of fellow Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, listening to this systolic speech before and better said conversations, and even false historical allegations and threats, which is beyond the point of the agenda and the words of Mr. Terzić's opening and introductory speech, I believe that some things are ominous. I am standing at a certain point of view expressed by some speakers so far, because most of it is past the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament and beyond the logic of the framework that is in the agenda. That's why I suggest you stay out of the box, and I see it's already been brought to this end. If that were the case at first, we would not spend a day in such speeches, that, if we are well-intentioned, and we should be all those who sit in these benches, we would be well-intentioned and well-intentioned in our opinions and suggestions on what and how the Prime Minister and the Government are supposed to do, that we should time-indicate and give in writing our opinions and suggestions that will be the guides under his practical work programme and exposé which he should present to this respected home. And I pray that this high house does not turn into a already seen scenario in its initial time frame, because this parliament should serve to bring this country into a position we pledge to bring it to. 40 I implore the chairman to end this and to vote the point, and let me now congratulate Mr. Terzić behind this payphone on his courage, especially if he knew it, and today he has seen what kind of congomer he will work in and how he will practically carry out his task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6864	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. This way we've finished discussing this item on the agenda. I call upon the sekretarijat of the parlametnaran Assembly to inform the MPs to enter the O.R. We must therefore identify the condition of the quorum and practically identify the vote of each MP. I'm asking the MPs to come into the O.R. We're approaching the voting act. I'm closing the debate. Only Mr. Terzić has the need to speak. Here you go, Mr. Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6865	In the opening statement, I said that I consider this home to be respectable and that I respect the members of this house, so I am going out, although I certainly have the necessary parliamentary majority to confirm my appointment, to say that I have mostly considered the discussion so far as to be a well-intentioned path that I should go and I am also the future council of ministers. I'm sorry that someone took it for themselves, let's say for the right to say that something I wrote and precisely defined his name and gave him his name and his last name turns into something he wants at this point, and that's probably the need to have some kind of exposé. Surely the work and justice of the gentlemen is something that is my commitment and the commitment of the future council of ministers. And all these discussions you've had today I'll take a stenogram and they'll find their answer in this exposé when I propose the Council of Ministers' composition. For these doubts about the profession, I still think it's most wrong today's Liberation with that cartoon so you wouldn't want that cartoon to be taken literally.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6866	I thank Mr. Terzić. Please, nice. I ask professional services to determine the condition of the quorum. 38 MPs. Please tell me who's missing the MPs at the session. Kunić, Hadžiahmetović, Zorić and Križanović. All right, all right. Please, we're moving on to a plea. According to the Rules of Procedure, we are now pleading on the confirmation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency's decision to appoint the prime minister for the Council of Ministers' composition. I ask the MPs to declare by raising the chart “for” who is to confirm the decision. 41 Who's in? Just clear out these charts so we can see that we can I.D. Thank you. Thank you to those who are in favour. Let's see who's against it. I ask the MPs who is against this decision? Please. Thank you. I ask the messengers who is restrained? Please. I'm publishing the results of the vote. A total of 38 MPs in the O.R. are present. 26 MPs voted in favour, eight MPs voted against, four abstentions. We're moving on to an ethnic statement. I'm asking the Federation MPs who's here to confirm this decision. Please pick up the charts who's in. Mr. Jahić. I'm sorry. You won't be confused at all. Thank you. From the Federation who's against? I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We're just asking for it. There's no further, questions don't go. So, I ask from Republika Srpska who's in favour? I find that by entities the vote is next. Bosnia and Herzegovina's Federation voted 18th. Republika Srpska voted 8. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina confirmed the Decision of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency on the appointment of Mr Adnan Terzić as chairman of the Council of Ministers. I invite you to stand up, and Mr. Terzić will make a solemn statement. I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6867	I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6868	Respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6869	Respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6870	Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6871	Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6872	Protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6873	Protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6874	Protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6875	And protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens. 42 Mr. Terzić, on behalf of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly and on his own behalf, welcome my congratulations on the election of the Council of Ministers chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest we continue our work. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad. 2. The request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Import and Export of Arms and Military Equipment, as referred to in Article 105. It's the rules of procedure at home. You received a request from the Council of Ministers and the Bill of Law at last session of the House. I'm opening a debate. Does anyone want to talk? If there's no discussion reported. Mr. Hasan Muratović is asking for a word. Here you go, Mr. Muratović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6876	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like first to say a few general things about this law. First, you will all agree that exporting to this country is one of the key issues of the recovery of its economy. Secondly, the producers treated by this law are almost exclusively exporters. Because of the lack of funds in the defence ministries, a very small part of their production is being placed in the country. So they export in some cases 80-90, and some in this year and 100% of their production. Secondly, the general rule is that this law is completely deviating from some of the basic principles of legislation, the writing of laws. So the law defines what is allowed and what is not allowed. And here he wants to participate in the process of controlling what is not allowed and what is, before he who is concerned shows any result in the action. Now going from member to member before I go over it I want to tell you that I've been called by three manufacturers to whom this law applies and said, if this law is passed as it's written, we have to shut down the company. We have nothing to do under that law. You see now in particular, firstly it is required that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs give consent, i.e. permission to import, export transit and traffic intervention... by means of transport equipment etc. It doesn't say whether you generally do dà or that for every contract yes. But you can tell from the law that it's for every contract. That's how I realized the law. What does that mean? That means if one manufacturer closes a contract now to take out German gun ammunition, it will go through all this procedure, it appears from Germany again in a month, it re-contracts, again the whole procedure, etc. It's simple, believe me, impossible to do in practice. If that's how we're going to do it, some ministry will set up an export company and let it worry and export, etc. Let him do the work instead of the one who manufactures it. But if the law says it can't be exported to Germany, then there's nothing more to customs than these people when a truck comes they see it going to Germany, it's not allowed, not to pass the truck. So the law is completely wrong. It's completely wrong. Second, it doesn't say what time the ministry has to issue. Well, then don't give me the details. It says if it's about the country's policy, etc. If it's not with the country's policy, the state will say in these countries it can't be exported. And it's over, it's all the law if someone takes out 43, right? But they won't even let those countries get past it. If it's defined what's not to be done, all the work is done. Furthermore, three ministries are projected to give consent. It's absurd, believe me. If this kind of consent is necessary at all, then it should be directed where he submits a request for consent and there is no one left to seek. He can't walk from one ministry to another in the government and ask for consent. Let the government walk there from the ministry to the ministry and ask for consent. He needs one place to surrender and one place to get it. But believe me, I haven't found any reason, except that it's in the minds of some people that they have to control all of this for every contract, etc. And watch the absurd now, I can't go from member to member, since we're tired. It says he should even worry about the Ministry of Transport through the country of it. So imagine how far people go. To keep the ministry from the Horsemen to the border secure transport and wait for this one downstairs. And I know a manufacturer who was on the border for 16 days with a million value of goods who, there's no excuse to stand there, it's known which country he's going to, to the EU country, etc. And finally, we want to join the EU and we want laws in line with the EU. Let it be said which country in the EU has such a law. Whoever suggests it is like this in Austria, this is how it is in the Czech Republic that enters, etc. Let's see if we're the only ones in the world that make life so complicated for our export industry. Just to be very constructive, it should be returned, you need to ask the manufacturer's opinion to see what they're going to say. Let the parliamentary commission consider with the manufacturers and with this promoter what led him to complicate and thus value them as business people and to control them in such a way. So I agree that one situation in which we must be very careful and very careful about exporting this, but it is prescribed what is allowed, what is not. What's not allowed, he can't do, if he's doing what's right. But not every thing like this, believe me, is a source of corruption. Every license is a source of corruption. Why should an officer there, it will come down to an official or two to give the entire industry consent whether they will give them or not to give them consent. And they don't actually have anything, they just have to rush them to do their job. It's not what if most of them, if they're actually always going where they're allowed, because they can't make a deal with that ski is not allowed. So I suggest that we don't waste a lot of time as at the first point, get it back, hear what our commission is going to say to which it belongs to the parliamentary, make sure it consults the manufacturer, hear their opinion, and then take a position. But believe me, as a man who's worked long in the economy, this shouldn't go away.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6877	I thank Mr. Muratović. Next came Mr. Blagojević, Mr. Moranjkić, and Jovanović, and Mr. Duraković. It's the order of discussion, so Mr. Špirić. I apologize to Ćeman for reporting behind Mr. Ćema, I was mistaken.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6878	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, as far as the SRS is concerned, we will support this law. We're about to pass this law today. 44 We also have one remark. One refers to a rather complicated authorisation procedure, and it should be concluded that one who needs permission to apply to the foreign trade ministry and economic relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that the Ministry obtains these consents and that, in particular, the ministry's consent is stated in Article 5. It means that the ministry would obtain the consent of the foreign ministry, the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications. So I suggest we pass this law today, but in some future time only in this Article 5. Mr. Terzić has gone probably a new Council of Ministers to propose only the correction of that Article 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6879	I thank Mr. Blagojević. Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6880	My fellow Members and fellow Members, I share quite an opinion with what is from that angle which is therefore not legally technical or craftsy legal character that Mr Muratović spoke of. However, I do believe that, given that the Law is proposed under Article 105 that there are reasons for this law to be considered under this procedure and that it would indeed be to say not only correctly but also an expression of understanding by this House to respect the efforts made by the proposer of this law by providing us with the text. However, I also believe that the provisions of the law of this and each other must be unequivocal as clear as possible, etc. Here, however, there are obviously some formulations that can cause us to say some ambiguities. The general, principled remark really states that it is either a complicated procedure, or it can be complicated if it is, here it is already indicated that the requirements for issuing licences are submitted to different state authorities in their jurisdiction, according to their competences, although rationality and efficiency and in this management area should be followed by a clue which someone has already mentioned, which is that in one place the requests are submitted if they need such permits and then simply within the consistent cooperation and by giving the relevant data, information, and even a permit to do so. I'll just point out, so I'll take into account these general remarks, but also the need for the law to be adopted today on two or three things. At least it's unclear for me in Article 2 here's to ignore everything else, what does the word "service security" mean in Section 4. Whether it's security as physical in terms of security of security, or whether it's about providing some of the financial policy instruments, or financial instruments. It remains unclear, it can be both. I suppose what the suggestion was, but I should make this point specific. Furthermore, I think that, I just had an intention to say to Article 6 that I have noted to myself, but it has already been indicated about these permits and requests from different ministries, but since we are already on track to get the ministry law and the Minister's Council of Ministers' Law is talking about the Minister of Security then I assume that in Article 6 in point 2, i.e. in paragraph 2, perhaps in the future, we should either think about the Ministry of Security or indeed remain the Ministry of Civil Affairs, since according to the former organisation of the Council of Ministers, this was the responsibility of this kind. It remains somewhat unclear to me now whether this should be subject to a new law that will be passed in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Civil Affairs. Perhaps, in that sense, if this is indeed intended to be placed in the jurisdiction of 45 of the Ministry of Security, then you would create a descriptive formulation that would imply it, rather than being so explicit that it could be an obstacle to the application of this law. Furthermore, in the end, I have already been able to look at some of the provisions, although I am informed, the current Council of Ministers has withdrawn the bill from the procedure. The text of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Criminal Law. In one of the members, and this law as a general law will be bound, of course, by its own area, it states that both criminal acts and, of course, criminal sanctions must be defined. In Article 14, therefore, even legally speaking, or in trade terms, it should be explicitly stated that such behaviours are also such, which are referred to in Article 14 of the criminal act, and that such a criminal offence is then subject to criminal sanctions. So there is no statement here in that sense, but only a reference to the behavior that is so. Either to make one of these or that move that is contrary to this law. The improvement of the text would, in fact, be that, explicitly, in this law, which, from the point of view, is a criminally legal lexecialis explicitly says that such behaviour is, in fact, a criminal act. The other thing is, here's even about this topic, so criminally legal part of it is to express one's opinion. I'm not sure that it's quite clear in what way these works here can be done out of negligentness, and here the negligent has been used as general to say, or the work done out of debauchery as a general principle that can be in one of these situations. I don't think this aspect is enough from this angle to consider and that it can create problems in its application tomorrow. Thank you very much. So these are just some of the sightings, but we've had too little time to think about this problem more thoroughly. In the end, it's just another suggestion. To all the promoters, whoever shows up, the truth of the will here is behind this pay phone a few days ago when we're MPs let me say educated a little bit how to work in this house, given the rules of procedure, etc. It would be good to even, evenly say this legal technical regulation to nomochnik in the laws that are proposed, because this law and how it falls away from nomoths applied to others. Although he did not seem to be involved in the preparation of this law by foreign experts, it seems to be according to our previously applied nomotechnical school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6881	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Mr. Moranjkić, and let Mr. Jovanović get his hands on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6882	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the College, MPs, ladies and gentlemen, before I move on to a few details that I would like to make, which I have noticed in my offer in this law, I would like to make one or two or three remarks. First, I, as an MP, can only give my vote “for” needed, and he is, clearly and above all, a applicable and applicable law that regulates some matter. These two last findings I don't think I can get a passing grade. Furthermore, I am not convinced that this law had to be passed by emergency procedure, because there are many laws ahead of us that are more important than this and are awaiting regular procedure. But about that, let's accept that it is on that track. However, I have a general remark that I have to talk about the law offered by the Council, which was brought here by a resolution minister to this House, I think it's a little immaterial, not to say a little bit inconclusive towards this 46-seat parliament. I ask myself who these MPs are going to speak to, if not that minister who should, who brought this law here to record these remarks and to install or not install in any way, and not to read how he knows and observes certain provisions. Third. It is common practice, and unfortunately in such a high home, it is reiterated that the legislator offers a law whose main conditions of its application are the whole list of instructions or better said sublegal acts that will ultimately constitute the core and the essence of this law by looking on the practical side. You know exactly what these two parole instructions are about. It remained deep in my memory when I was talking about this and it gave me the right never to accept a law that remains unarranged, a law on craftsmanship that was passed in Tuzla canton four years ago, and a resolute minister never passed a sublegal act until the day after four years of his law enforcement was not applicable and not applicable. In this proposed law, I will speak specifically of this, there are also certain indeterminations, ambiguities and conditional inconsistencies of this law, because it will stumble and come to some of the questions that will ultimately lead to the inapplicability of this law. And in this sense, I point to - Article 5(3), which speaks for who obtains consent and that remark is made by me, I think Mr Muratović, and I will only rely on the fact that, in part, it is regulated by Article 7(2) only when it comes to one ministry, and the other two ministries are totally unclear in what role they play and who is seeking consent to these ministries both on what basis and how they will receive them. Article 8 states that the ministry therefore provides two instructions that regulate imports, exports, transit, intermediation, arms trafficking, the obligations of customs authorities and the implementation of this law. So, the core of that law. He's instructions that we don't see when we make that law in any form, in any kind of draft or pre-arranged form, and they're practically going to talk about the practical application of that law, and these decisions are practically just going to be icabana. Therefore, these two instructions will depend on whether this law will be good or bad, applicable or inapplicable, either usable or unusable. Article 10. In this article, it is necessary to make clear who decides what the conditions for issuing licences are. That's not said. And there will be an immediate conflict of interest, and it will be inapplicable to this law. I suggest that in attitude one that ends with a point, you put a point and say exactly what that one and that point decide. That it is clearly known in the law, and that the balls are not transferred tomorrow when that law applies whether this one or that one or who it suits. When it comes to the relationship between members 14, 15, and 16 who are talking about penalties, it is not stated anywhere what the fate of troubled goods is. Because she's going to answer, she's usually in these legal tendons and she's a customs and criminal provision. But is she being taken away, what her further destiny is, etc. It should still stand in this law. Article 21 states that the law enters into force on the eighth day following its adoption, and the conditional instructions to be adopted, and that only then can the law be applied is 30 days. I wonder what these 22 days, just to go by comes... So I propose that I also accept Mr Muratović's proposal that this law be returned to completion, that all the remarks that MPs make be included in them offer to this parliament. Thank you very much. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6883	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. Mr. Jovanović, let Mr. Duraković prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6884	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I am always in principle against law-making in this way, as I was against imposing the law by the High Representative, so am I, and against passing the law by emergency procedure, when meaning MPs are not given the opportunity to submit amendments. I'm afraid this way of working doesn't want to marginalize this home. I am afraid that both the political and legislative power that this home has to bear and that it is not a practice for us not to pass it on to the Council of Ministers and that is to say the reason why I am against this kind of lawmaking. However, I agree, given the current problem we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina that this is the law BiH needs. But, personally, I don't want to repeat what my colleagues have been saying, I personally think that this law can be difficult to apply in practice, and so I would suggest Mr. President, maybe some compromise would be better if we passed this law by emergency, according to Rules of Procedure 104. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104 is given the opportunity to give MPs and all those who are interested in making observations and amendments to this law. Because obviously from the discussion of colleagues, and it will probably still be that this law, probably in the application of the brah, will be difficult to realize.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6885	I thank Mr. Jovanović. Mr. Duraković and get ready for Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6886	I'm sorry or sorry, however you wish, for calling me next time for your word. I'm reporting on matter, which I have to admit, I'm not worthy. But by reading this law and listening to this discussion so far, I would first say I am giving absolute support to those proposals and attitudes made by Mr Muratović. That's what they contain, probably in the stenogram of this debate. According to my layman's conviction, this law of the implication, or even of the explicits, involves the first one abject bureaucratic relationship to a very complex and very important matter such as weapons, dedicated production, etc. Secondly, it has shown an incredible legal dilettanteism. That there is no one else in any way able to manage and who would ask for permission from whom, and it is right Muratović when he says it is indeed someone came up with that we have the right bed of corruption and that we should bribe, bribe, beg, pray, and so on. but not to be like natural things in all countries at least so much in this positive sense centralised and that you know how to address the right address. From this law comes our exact protection position or semi-protector position. Obviously, there's September 11th syndrome here, and we're about to, if you'll excuse the expression, take off your paws and say here's one thousand clauses we're going to introduce in order to maintain our, let's say, intended production, even if it's hunting ammunition production for Germany or I don't know the binoculars from Chayevec to America. 48 In fact, from this law, the bill of law, it's an honor he's done. There comes one condescending, obedience, and first incompetence. I'm sorry I use those words. I'm not competent to judge it, but at least it's my impression. In fact, one neocolonial position of BiH stems from all this, and we should at no cost approve this law. My proposal is to work thoroughly, to do professionally and to defend the interests of BiH's economy. And it's still a good part, let's say for a purpose, as we called for production and it doesn't have to be all production for Iraq. So we need to protect this production, because many hundreds and tens of thousands of people live off this production and let's not play with these solutions and I think we need to get it back to one thorough dorado, in line with these remarks that have already been heard. I support my predecessors who spoke of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6887	I thank Mr. Duraković. For God's sake, just a little attention, please. We'll take a break now, we'll make a deal to get some rest. Mr. Špirić has his word. Hold on a second. We'll take a break after the discussion. I'll suggest.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6888	Gentlemen of the chairman, distinguished colleagues, it seems to me again that the story of the essence is here rather than the procedure. We have the motion to adopt this law under Article 105, and we have opened a debate on the essence of the law. So, we've entered something that is not businessly well and I'm afraid, but, of course, there is a democratic term voting will show who is why. I know that arms trade imports and arms exports to BiH and its entities have been a tricky business for criminals only. They had entity and government authorities for a long time to make use of a law in which the funds and exports from the weapons will be recorded in the budget and be the backbone of the development of BiH and its entities. Unfortunately, this has not been possible so far, and if I am opposed to law-making under Article 100, because it passiveises both the work of both the Parliament and the Council of Ministers when it comes to the laws that have been introduced by the OHR, and knowing that this law is important and that it is better to have it than to allow the export and import of weapons to be done so far, and Nijaz is right not necessarily everything for Iraq, nor must everything be for Kosovo. It doesn't matter who makes all the black bills when it comes to guns. You know what's about the Eagle affair in RS, but I also have information here that there is no arsenal of weapons in the Federation, but the question is, where is the money? The citizens are interested in where the money from the arms sold is. Where is the rocket fuel for fire, the olitiorcan 1500 pieces in the grain, where 22,423 pieces of mines 82 millimeters M 68... etc. So it takes ladies and gentlemen of the law and I will first support the procedure of Article 105 and vote for this law and the parliamentary majority that exists, if it makes sense for a better law, can do it in ten days and offer it to this Parliament and precisely get that law that they think won't be omitted to trade and create crime, corruption, etc. Weapons-related. I think that this law, at least, is my view, regardless of the procedure of Article 105, should be supported because the absence of the law left the possibility that tens of millions of dollars in the arms trade could be done in private hands, in the hands of criminal circles, that different stories in BiH and its entities would be told which are not of interest to BiH and no law is a sacred letter that could not be done to make it better, but above all, my support and the procedure of Members 105 and the law should be passed. Thank you. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6889	I thank Mr. Špirić. Is anyone else answering for word? Mr. Lagumdžija pa Mr. Muratović once again and Mrs. Palavrić announces a break after the discussion, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6890	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, at the SDP MPs' Club, we had a debate on this law and we found less use of the second dictionary, we agree less with the remarks that it made in the concept but we do not enter from one to the other with a great attempt to comment on the principled nature which Mr. Muratović, somewhat Mr. Duraković, probably differed from us. Mr Špirić is right, that we should do so today if we had confidence in the parliamentary majority that is forming. However, since I honestly must admit that we do not trust the efficiency of this parliamentary majority, we are not sure that it will end this quickly, we are against this law in accordance with Article 105. We think it would be good to find some chance to move into this procedure under Article 104 to speed up. However, it leaves an open question, Mr. Chairman, which I have asked for the first item of the agenda, let's just say we don't adopt now. I say hypothetically speaking, let's say we don't adopt this law now. Since this was run by the Foreign Trade Ministry, this is theirs. I wasn't on the Council of Ministers when this law was passed, so I'm not so familiar with the details, it doesn't justify me. Now I'm talking like I'm in front of the MPs' club. Now the question is, who's taking over this ministry is going to do their part of the job. But does the Council of Ministers now appear in this term? I mean business. To speed this whole procedure up for me, I would ask that we be answered whether the Council of Ministers can take its stand to go to Parliament. As far as I'm concerned, we're ready to come to Parliament tomorrow for this to happen again in our procedure, so it wouldn't be bad if you'd already announced that you would try to give us the answers to this question, because, indeed, in this way, we'd best be able to put in place a blockade of a large part of the dedicated industry, and in the end, we should have a principle that we've already suggested that, if someone has to approve, then that someone should be the service of the one who's looking for approval and not that we have three or four institutions that, objectively, have no responsibilities, which will lead to a complete blockade. So, I'm in a bit of a weird situation, because as a member of the Council of Ministers, I should, I say, accept this. However, I am speaking in front of the MPs' club, deeply aware of the fact that we would go into a deep crisis if we adopted this by article 105, and otherwise I have no responsibility for this, since I didn't even participate in this together. So if someone thought I was involved in this, a fula in the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6891	Thank you. You, Mr. Lagumdžija, have been repeating the same question twice about this pay phone. I can tell you my opinion. However, this parliament has its own bodies and it is most appropriate that the bodies of this parliament do so. So, I can tell you my opinion on the matter, if that's what you're interested in, here I am, as chairman, going to say immediately what I think about the status of ministers who are still in the Council of Ministers on the status of the Council of Ministers. 50 So, I have, things are clear to me, but I believe you're not asking me for an opinion. Right? Well, here, I can say my opinion, but here we can delegate it. I apologize if we don't understand each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6892	Mr. Chairman, let me be very clear. Every ministry and every minister by law and one who has been before and this one who has been imposed by Mr Pedi Eždaun by Minister Hadžiahemtović and I, I don't know either, Mr Mihajlović we are ministers until further notice. However, the body called the Council of Ministers is his question now, let us not have any different interpretations, as far as I'm concerned by the chairmanship as a member of the Council of Ministers, if you, as chairman or College, give an interpretation before this House, allow me not to know anyone more quantifiable than you to give interpretations. It's better that you give the interpretations here to get into the manetogram so we don't politicize without need, because we may have some technical reasons to function, so what you give, I suppose, I'll pass on to the Council of Ministers' chairman in this outgoing composition. And you pass on to the coming band, what's to be done to him who's to call us if anything's to be done. But I am telling you responsibly the ministry in which I work will work most normally until a new foreign minister is appointed and will be given the duty of the most normal and without any problems. I have no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6893	I thank you, things are clear that we are not opening the polemics of this species. So we'll give if there's an interpretation. I can make my opinion public right now, but let's wait. So for me there must be and there must be, not only for me but it is so by law the continuity of the functioning of the executive authority. The BiH institutions must function at any time regardless of the personal composition, what is the personal composition. The Council of Ministers exists as an institution and it will function all until new members of the Council of Ministers are elected. But I don't want to open that rush. This is my opinion personally. Who else wants to participate in the discussion under this law? Mr Muratović, I apologize to Professor Muratović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6894	I do, indeed, understand the need to pass this law by emergency procedure, but based on what is said here, I consider it necessary for him to suffer some changes. Here, in particular, Article 5 does not say within which time period the ministry must respond to the request for export. The man has a contract, please, signed a contract with a foreign partner that will be delivered in three months or 20 days or what I know for how long. Secondly, it does not differ the first time it starts and generally runs. Third, I said don't say if it's for every contract or if it's general. If for each contract, if he exported now in the first month and re-contracted to export in the sixth, is it the same procedure for the same buyer, from the same country, etc. Is the same deadline, etc.? So, this must, believe me, to make it easier for the exporters to work, it has to be defined. 51 Article 8 states in its first position that everything will be regulated by the manual, if we will have a session of Parliament within a week, if this can be concluded, of course we will immediately re-admit that law, or then, and by then, perhaps the instructions can end up having 30 days for instruction. It doesn't reduce that speed. And, in the end, I would like it to be understood that this law regulates how regular businesses work and export. He doesn't treat what some here talked about those who export illegally, so there are laws what happens if someone does something illegal, which is not allowed at all. So, we're trying to make it easier in my opinion for businesses that produce this type of product, which, as I initially said almost dominantly works for exports, almost dominantly. I want us to see well on purpose what we can do to adopt it very quickly without it being at the expense of these companies that are going to hit it over the head and at least define it, because the law is not as clear as it can be from these some of my questions. For example. Question number 5 until when to answer. Questions whether or not the ministries are collecting from each other and only once a request is made, etc. So that has to be precise. That may be precise in half an hour and what I know is if there's the one who proposed the law. Maybe now the author of the law, always some dominant author here could tell us what he accepts, what he suggests we hear.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6895	I thank Mr. Muratović. Anyone else want to talk about this law? I'm taking a break, Sead, as long as you asked for a break. I'm taking a 15-minute break at the club president's request, then 30 minutes, you want to eat it? Does he have a restaurant? I'm taking a 30-minute break, please. Don't take more than 30 minutes, it'll take 30 minutes. 30 minutes off. ...with work. [[PAUZA]] The president of the SDA Club, Ms. Seada Palavrić, requested a break. Mrs. Palavrić, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6896	We have considered, indeed, the extraordinary need to pass this law at the Club. However, we also had in mind the remarks, in our opinion the very justified remarks that have been heard about this speaker today, and we have a proposal to stand at the point of Article 105(3) at the moment. Therefore, the debate is concluded that it is not now put to the vote by the Council of Ministers for the discussion of the Proposal for a Law on the Import and Export of Arms and Military Equipment under Article 105 but, therefore, to stop here, to stop this point, to continue with other points, and that the Council of Ministers, within 7 days, therefore, by the next session at the latest, shall consider the observations which have been made and decide whether it will remain at the request that the law be considered in this text, or that it will withdraw this text and, instead, offer a law, a bill in which the observations that have been made today have been made to this speaker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6897	Thank you. Mr. Špirić, business intervention. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6898	Gentlemen chaired by fellow Members of Parliament and fellow Members, this is not possible as my colleague, Suad, suggests. Namely, the promoter has a clear request under Article 105 and he can give up his request and may ask for a change in the way we work. We, therefore, must conclude this procedure in business because the debate is concluded to state whether we are in favour of the 105th procedure or against this procedure and it is impossible for the Council of Ministers in the old assembly, because we have chosen today a new mandater to reconsider this request in one way or another. So today we have a chance to vote for the law under Rule 105 of the Rules of Procedure or against the Law and it is impossible to change the agenda because the agenda has been adopted. So, I understand the pain that we've been in, but that should have been taken care of before we put the point in, including the agenda. This law can pass, it can go into a regular procedure, all those who advocate that this law does not pass today by voting against put it in a regular procedure, and that's how long you want to build up the firsts, the corrections, but I think there's another one here that's worried, what Dad's going to say. What the OHR will say, what will the High Representative say. Don't be afraid of it. You've formed power today. Thank you very much. So, don't be afraid, vote yes or no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6899	Please, Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, as minister, as resolute minister, has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6900	Thank you. Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, allow me to give a few explanations. By 16 September, the authorisation procedure for all goods under a special regime of exports and imports or limited by freedom of export and import, therefore, in the external commercial existence, was in the exclusive jurisdiction of the entity trade ministries. In particular, when it comes to arms and military equipment, with the prior consent of defence ministries in jurisdiction, i.e. entity governments. On 16 September, it was sent, i.e. it adopted a decision to amend the regime in external trade, and to decide on a specific regime for exporting and importing goods and, inter alia, to include, i.e. a resolutely, the State Ministry in whose jurisdiction is the external trade policy of issuing a licence for goods under a special regime. That includes weapons and military equipment. So the amended decision has changed the powers, or level of authority in BiH, to a state level where foreign trade policy is, however, many things remain unregulated, making many entities, economic operators in BiH have difficulty and a stalemate in implementing external trade arrangements in the area. The task force formed in the drafting of this law and consisting of representatives of domestic authorities and international organisations involved in the area of security, arms, military equipment, etc. The Council of Ministers adopted a decision on the conduct to say, i.e. to adopt the rules of conduct of the European Union on the conduct of arms exports and military equipment. In this way, the Council of Ministers also pledged to comply with the usual European rules, norms and standards that prevail in this area. The component of these initials is also the list of arms and military equipment to which this Article 3 refers. The bill before 53 of you, where, among other things, says that weapons and military equipment, i.e. spare parts within the meaning of the law, are supporting all positions to the latest common list of military equipment covered by the first behaviour of the European Union and the handling of arms and military equipment exports. The bottom line is the next one. That is, what the change is compared to the existing system of issuing export-export and transport licences. Production is where it complies with existing competences, laws, etc. where it belongs and it is in the regulation of entity resolution ministries. I will remind you not only is it intended production, because some entities that produce, among other things, arms and military equipment produce and other goods and services that are not subject to a special export regime, i.e. imports. So it's only about the regime of foreign trade in exports - imports and transit eventually via BiH territory. The bottom line is the next one. That, in line with international standards, the European first ones are primarily regulated by this area in such a way that all relevant institutions at the state level are involved, i.e. in part, possibly and bear responsibility, i.e. share responsibility in civil control in this very sensitive area. Therefore, export controls - imports and transit of production. I'm only talking about exports here - import and transit. In this respect, the restoring ministries, whose opinions, consent and previous consent are also listed here, etc. necessary to comply with the usual international rules, I repeat here, first and foremost, the European Code of Conduct in this area responds to those requirements and normally meets the rules of the game that prevail in this area. And here it's true, and I'm very sorry, I hope you'll appreciate, for legitimate reasons, in the part of the discussion that concerned the essence, I wasn't present, but based on the information that I've collected at least on these key remarks, possibly queries, etc. which concerns this law, i.e. the proposal for a law, I can mention that all these remarks, suggestions, possible indetermination and even precisions may and may in fact be the subject of instructions issued under the law adopted. So, when the law is passed, the instructions for implementation for procedures issued by the ministry, the resolution ministry, which, among other things, for your information with this draft of the law, simplifys the full procedure for issuing the permits and the necessary consent, which is why I recommend that the Council of Ministers be accepted, that this law be adopted as soon as possible. I'll just remind you that the current dedicated industry in the realization of existing, already concluded external trade arrangements and even the creation of new external trades has a lot of difficulties. About 30,000 people work directly or indirectly in BiH in the dedicated industry, and this law does not complicate, but even more simplifies the existing situation. It very clearly defines in which area and what all weapons are, or what everything is subject to the authorisation regime and how the resolute ministry issues the permits. I, indeed, respecting all the comments, suggestions made here, suggest that this law be adopted as soon as possible, in accordance with the procedure proposed by the Council of Ministers. 54 On the proposal by Mrs Palavrić that the statement, possibly, of this law is prolonged in seven days, I will only mention that within seven days because of the upcoming holidays and all those involved in the work were and this bill is impossible to draw up a group to possibly change some provisions or prolong for the next year or put to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6901	I'm thanking you. No Niko's answering for a word anymore. Mr. Gligorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6902	Ladies and gentlemen, I have come out to commend the efforts that MPs have made when it comes to this stake and if we have a problem, because by Article 8 105, when it comes to emergency procedures, we are unable to change anything. You will see and, probably, you will have resistance to it, because we have had such cases so far, but I want to support the discussion, meaning MP Muratović, and also MP Duraković, as a good example of how we really need to have a debate on a very important text, and to get into a situation to become, in fact, a permanent practice. We now have this situation under the Rules of Procedure, and I suggest you do. Under Article 105, there are no amendments, the vote should be voted upon at first. If we vote for, then it is possible in terms of these constructive remarks which were without protecting domestic production, because this is not protected, I apologize to the minister for it, it is not protected or if we vote then, if we vote for amendments and supplements, we will improve in the next period or if we vote against, then it will go back to regular procedure. I don't see any more other space, we don't have for maneuvers besides that, with it being very important to take care of this law, should be put under control and within standards, but believe this type of war production, military production, as they like to say in the West, war production, is actually the production that the biggest profit brings. There's nothing in America about Coca-Cola and if it's powerful but war production. I'm afraid here when it comes to the environment and we ourselves here, we want to minimize our production in this way and we're going to be in a situation where we can't make that profit that we've had so far and in terms of control. So I'm glad these remarks were very constructive. I agree that we need to change that and we need to deal with it within these standards, but we no longer have the opportunity to vote yes or no, but we still have the opportunity to intervene in this House again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6903	Thank you, Mr. Gligorić. At the club's request, I apologize five minutes ago, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6904	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, I think first of all that this is a proposal from the Council of Ministers and that in this sense no minister can change the proposal or amend the proposal of the Council of Ministers. So it is necessary to have the Council of Ministers' position. So, quite simply speaking of this law must be voted or the Council of Ministers has to change the proposal rather than Madam Minister. Thank you. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6905	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk before I take a break? After the break we'll just plead? Mrs. Palavrić. Take five minutes, don't leave the O.R. MPs, please, we took this break to consult simply yes, these consultations are over. [[PAUZA]] Here we go with the work. I've got two suggestions here for us to do. There is a proposal by Mrs Palavrić, which has suggested that we do not plead today, that the Council of Ministers be able to consider these remarks, be it possible to declare whether they will remain in this procedure or stay, or suggest another procedure and, of course, have what I have to do as chairman and according to the Rules of Procedure, unless this proposal is given the right majority. So, that's to put the law to the vote. Mrs. Palavrić suggested that we do not say this today, but that we stop the debate at this point in the agenda and go to the next point, that the Council of Ministers, having these remarks heard in Parliament, decide whether to enable it, will remain with this procedure under Article 105 which does not assume amendments, or that some other procedure would provide for any amendments, and I, Mrs. Palavrić, will first put it to the vote. Who's in? Here's a suggestion. I put Mr. Lagumdžija on the vote last time, watch out for the vote of one MP to vote on something, so you plead if you're in favour, if you're against it, then I'll be the law after that if the proposal doesn't get most of the vote. Who's up for this proposal? Who's against the proposal? Thank you. Who's being held back? Thank you. Please, nice. Of the 35 MPs – 17 voted in favour – 17 was against – 1 MP was abstention. We don't have the right majority for this proposal. We're going to make a statement about the law itself. So, about the request for a procedure. I'm asking MPs who is this law to be considered by article 105 under this emergency procedure? Who's in, by Article 105? So, super urgent procedure this one. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? There was therefore 37 MPs who voted in total – 21 were in favour – 11-5 were abstentions. There is a general majority in Parliament for this. This is Secretary Dom's interpretation. We're going to a statement on the entities. Who's from the Federation for? Thank you. Who's from RS for? Thank you. So this is how the Federation voted 10 for -- 11 voted in favour of both the entity majority of both the Federation and Republika Srpska from Republika Srpska. Therefore, the majority of the votes decided to consider this law in Article 105. 56 Now we're going to make a statement about the law itself. Isn't that right, Branka? I ask Dom who's in favor of this law? Did you count it? Yes, it is. Who's against it? Thank you. Abstained? The results of the vote are as follows: 37 votes to 18 -- 11 votes against -- abstentions were 8. The law has a general majority. We're going to a statement on the entities. From the Federation, who's in favor of the law? From the RS who's in favor of the law? Please, from the Federation of BiH for voting 6 from RS voted for 11 there is no need for most of the Federation of BiH law to go to the consensus. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. This means that the College is doing the same thing. This means within an hour, or within the next three days, as it is under the Rules of Procedure, please read all of this, and then the report of the College of this Law will put on this House, which is about your decision and you will have the right to make known about this report, was positive he was negative, here is the procedure under the law. I'm begging you, we really have two more points of the day's Geds. I didn't hear you. We keep working. May I have your attention, please? We started working pretty late today, so here we go to the end of the session. A little patience. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. Ad.3. The request of MPs Šefik Džaferović, Borislav Paravac and Bariša Čolak to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Citizenship of BiH under Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives you've won the law. I'm also obliged if we had one extensive bout of this whole thing, when we set the agenda and a few days ago at the session itself. I gave an explanation of what it all meant. I'm opening a debate on this. Mr. Gligorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6906	The submissions of the proposal are in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of BiH in Article 2 in Article 1 of Article 39(1). The BiH citizenship law, the number and that, under number 5, is replaced by 15, which is thought by the current law, which expires at the end of the year, which was valid for five years to be 15 years. I would ask MPs to have in mind and the OHR's opinion on this matter by the first Deputy High Representative of Mr Donald Hejs, not to speak of these two attitudes required of Chairman Dragan Mikerević, after all of these, means that the issue is defined. The OHR's stance is that the transitional period should be extended for an additional 5 years, i.e. by 1 January 2008, as this additional period of time would be sufficient to ensure the adoption and entry into force of the dual citizenship agreement BiH wanted to conclude. 57 We've had, then, one period of five years, now we should definitely regulate it. I think it was supposed to go on for five years. However, here I would ask, in this case, to respect the OHR's position to do so by 2008, or in this case how mathematically it looks by 2013. By the way, and I end up with this, it might be a good idea to keep in mind that we allow double citizenship not to lose the status of BiH citizens who are abroad, but in a political sense, maybe the same thing should be done to make sure that those people who are there who do not want to return, we thus enable them to actually decide on our destiny for us who are here, where it is difficult for them to live with their own voice, say from Sweden, thus enabling a certain congregation majority of them to be provided here and not in the interests of these people who live here. It is, then, one political question and if someone wants to come back it would be good to come back, or if someone lives well and doesn't think to come back, that way we put them in this political game and that way they determine our fate. But I don't think there's a need, and I don't know what motivated Mr. Paravac here and in this case, it's quite the same period as the period and our four-year term, and all of this is supposed to be watched, not for a long time, and I don't know what kind of you would do to explain what motivated you to be that exact period of 10 years.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6907	Thank you, Mr. Gligorić. Mr. Duraković and Mr. Ćeman as far as I was able to track. Who asked for an earlier word? I didn't see Mirsade believe me.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6908	I'm sorry again. I'm talking about something where I'm not competent, but I was recently in Austria, Germany, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, etc. And most of our people, regardless of nationality, I underline it, whether they are Bošnjak, whether they are Srbin, whether the Hrvat, first and foremost, here's Beriza as a witness to me. Let's get the men to keep that up. This is where our foreign minister Lagumdžija is present and he knows it. In fact, it's about legislation. For example, Germany does not allow double citizenship. It's in her constitution. That doesn't allow America either. That doesn't allow many other countries, but let's say some Scandinavian countries, which are mildly blessed. So he says, we know that your people are getting our citizenships, but we're not going to raise the question of what we're doing here, and they're asking Godfathers. So, I repeat, this is not about any individual national interest, it is about the citizens of BiH. If we don't extend this for at least ten years, we're going to lose a few hundred thousand of our citizens. So is there any state that'll sign it? Please, nice. I don't see, at all, any more the subject of debate. If we want to give up our citizens then vote what some suggest. So my proposal is to extend that deadline for at least ten years and yes, and my God, what will happen, I believe that we will be in the European Union in ten years, so that will not matter at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6909	I thank Mr. Duraković. Mr. Ćeman Mirsad. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6910	My colleagues and colleagues, I felt the need to come out, of course, to support the procedure for this member as well as this solution, precisely for the reasons that my colleague Duraković spoke of not to repeat. I think in the truth, no matter what category of citizens we can sort them out by any standard, etc. We're thinking about this subject, there's no reason not to accept this proposal. I even have some knowledge that there are very prominent demands that this deadline should not be imposed at all, that this deadline should be left open and that it would certainly be in the interest of this country if we look from the point of view that we do not need it, no one should be in the interest to wait for the citizens of BiH who for any reason went to third countries to cross the list of citizens of this country. Therefore, I look forward to this proposal and here we think that at least these next ten years is enough time for those who will be in charge of working with the relevant countries to conclude agreements on dual citizenship to do so, and I even urge that this process be speeded up, because I am sure, as my colleague Duraković said, has countries that look favorably at this, not questioning their interests in this, and this is certainly the interest of BiH citizens around the world, so it should be ours here in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6911	Thank you, Mirsada. Mr. Borislav Paravac, the first deputy asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6912	I would like to answer the question why we have proposed for 15 years, because in the initial proposal of the Council of Ministers, the proposal has been made, and the Council of Ministers knows which political forces it is made up of. So I think the answer can be found in your house. I'm taking the opportunity, it seems there was some misunderstanding here in my discussion that I was threatening something, so someone misunderstood it. That I said they had methods, if they wanted to be a constructive opposition to be, and if they didn't want to have other non-civilization methods, because I experienced this one method somewhere some years back at the Hotel Bosnia in Banja Luka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-23-0.u6913	I thank Mr. Paravac. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who is it to consider this law amending the Law on Statehood under Article 105 by emergency procedure? Who's in? 38 present – 38 votes for. Anybody got any pressure? There isn't. Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I realize that we have a general majority, that there is also an entity in this general, and that we have determined that this law goes according to the most urgent procedure under Article 105, so we move to a statement of the law itself. Who's up for the law? Thank you. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There are no 59 I konstatuj that of the 38 MPs – 38 voted in favour. There were no MPs against, no abstentions. So we passed the Law amending the Law on Citizenship with the majority, therefore, unanimously with the general majority that includes the entity majority. Thank you. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.4. Giving consent to the ratification of the BiH-Yugoslavia dual citizenship agreement You received the text of the contract on the bench with a letter from the Council of Ministers and with a letter from the BiH presidency. There was also a committee meeting today. I call upon the president of the board of directors, if he considers it necessary to take his word. You have your opinion in writing, here's the president of the commission who thinks you shouldn't go out for a pay phone. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm asking you, who's to give consent to ratify this contract? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I find that the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives with 38 votes in favour, with no abstentions and no votes against, therefore, the general and entity majority gave consent to ratification of the BiH-SR Yugoslavia's Double Citizenship Treaty. Please, we're not done yet. I'm asking for a few minutes of your attention. I am asked by the president of the BiH Election Commission to read you a short letter here. I'm asking you to listen to him. It is important and concerns the status of MPs. Do you have this letter addressed to me? Please follow that letter so I don't read it. Next thing you know, fill out those forms as requested. I've got two more things. The next session of this house will most likely be held today on the 30th, from today, but you will be notified by invitation. From today to 30th. So there will be a 25th Catholic Christmas and I on behalf of the House of Representatives and on behalf of all Catholics I want to congratulate Christmas. This way, Mr. Lagumdžija cannot determine the exact time when there will be a session at what time. It'll be on a regular basis. This was an emergency today. Please just a minute, whether there's gonna be a session or not, I'll let you know by calling, but we're planning from the College to have a session of 30. She was at 1:00 today because this session was scheduled on Friday afternoon, so we wanted to make sure people could come. Thank you very much. I'm closing the fifth session. I'll see you if Bog gives in today. The session is closed at 7:10 p.m.
