ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2693	Dear delegates, esteemed guests, distinguished representatives of public information funds, I am opening the 22nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear delegates of the House of Peoples, I would like to inform you that today's session is attended by 12 delegates of 4 from the Bosniak people, 4 from the order of the Serb, 4 from the order of the Croatian people, which means that we can work fully and make valid decisions. Also, I would like to inform you that Mr Dragutin Rodić, who is also on the official path, has justified his absence, who is officially absent today, then the delegate Mr Šimić Ilija, who is also on the official path or, I apologize to Mr Dragutin Ilić. His absence was not announced by Mr. Munib Jusufović. I expect you to join us during the session. For the sake of the public, I would like to inform you that the chairman of the BiH Presidency has announced that today the members of the Presidency are unable to attend this session for the important visit of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Kučan, but that they will send their envoys. Also, Foreign Minister Azra Hadžiahmetović announced the presence of her deputies at today's session, related to the agenda points this ministry should refer to. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move to the agenda, I would like to inform you that the College of the People's House has reached agreement that the Air Force Act is being considered under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, it was a request from the BiH Council of Ministers. The College also agreed that the Law on the Foundations of the Public TV System and the Public TV System should be considered under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. I am pleased to inform you that at yesterday's session of the College of the House of Peoples, we have reached agreement and agreed that all proposals submitted to the House of People and require respect for the procedure of Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of People, regardless of whether they came from MPs, the Council of Ministers or the Presidency are today's agenda points. For these reasons, we ask for your understanding. We did this for reasons that are ahead of us, probably a small break of vacations, and today it would be good for the people to show their productivity and to adopt more laws. 2 In that sense of the agenda, I will read the agenda you received for today's session, which differs from that agenda that you received last session. This is the updated agenda on which the Consensus of the College of the House of Peoples was reached. 1. Answers to delegates' questions and delegates' questions; 2. Minutes from the 20th and 21st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 3. The appointment of delegates to the House of Peoples for members of the Joint Commission of both homes to reach an agreement on the same text (a) the Law on Administration, (b) the Law on National Minorities, (c) the Law on concessions, 4. Appointment of members of the Committee for the Making of Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples; 5. Credit agreement between BiH, Development Project for livestock and rural financing – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 6. Treaty on trade in textile products between the European Community and BiH – Proposer of the Presidency; 7. Agreement on Free Trade between BiH and the Republic of Slovenia – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 8. Agreement between the Government of BiH and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial assistance for the establishment of a business by a professional workforce returning to BiH – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 9. Information on the settlement of the Ljubljanska Banka's savings issue – submiter of the Information Council of Ministers; 10. Law amending and supplementing the Central Bank Act – First Reading – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 11. BiH Deposit Insurance Act – First Reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 12. Law amending the Industrial Property Act – first reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 13. The Law on Features – First Reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 14. The Law on Gender Equality and Gender Equality in BiH – First Reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 15. Resolution on young people in BiH – Proposer Sejfudin Tokić; 16. Declaration by the People's House on the consideration under Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples on Amendments of the Law on the Transfer of the Regulator and Operator of the Electricity System to BiH – Proposer of Delegation Ivo Divković; 17. Declaration of the House of Nations consideration under Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples on the movement and residence of foreigners and asylum – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 18. Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH member 100th Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 19th Law amending and supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act with the BiH Customs Tariff – Member of the 100th Proposed Council of Ministers; 3 20. Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH - Article 100 Rules of Procedure of the People's House – Proposing delegate Sejfudin Tokić; 21. Law on registration of legal persons established by the BiH authorities – Member of the 100th Proposed Delegator Sejfudin Tokić; 22. Law amending and supplementing the law on the personal cards of BiH citizens – Member of the 100th Proposer Sejfudin Tokić, and 23rd. Law amending and supplementing the Central Recording and Data Exchange Act of BiH – Member of the 100th Proposer Sejfudin Tokić. You've heard, therefore, the harmonized agenda points by the College. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2694	Finally, half a year after a reasonable deadline, but based on the conclusion we had last time at the House of Nations, we received a final report ten days ago on the execution of the BiH institution's budget for the year and for the first three months. Of course, with that point, I meant that we should consider it at the House of People's session, not keep it at home. I see that there are no points on the agenda. I suggest that it be included in the report on the implementation of the budget of the BiH institution for 2001, especially what I found there are some issues that are rather controversial. That's the first point. That's one suggestion. The second proposal, we, here after 3-4 months of admission to the Council of Europe, do not have the complete and final delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Council of Europe, which is unmarked as a precedent in the history of the Council of Europe. There were already two plenary sessions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where BiH was not a delegation in full. There is also a letter from the Secretary-General of Mr Bruno Haver, where five existing members can be appointed for members or deputies, but insists on completing the delegation, that... I propose a agenda point so that after the upcoming break, which seems to be an recorded and September session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we do not welcome in this shameful way. I propose, therefore, a point of appointment and completion of a delegation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in the Council of Europe. The third addition, there are these days extremely present in the media advertising significant officials from the chairman-in-Office of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly, foreign ministers, ministers at the BiH Council of Ministers, who are all asked by name to examine whether what is written in the press about the CIPS project is true. For me, it is amazing that all significant officials in the current current government and in the legislative and executive demands to check whether it is true what is written in the media about the CIPS project. So, if they are asking to examine whether it is true what is written in the media, then you can think of how an ordinary citizen feels, through which the back goes to pay for this project and somewhat you delegates here in this home, which, simply despite the insistence of three months Šefik, to provide complete information about the CIPS project, we haven't received anything yet. 4 So, I propose to add a agenda of information on the CIPS project, regardless of what I see here only one member of the Council of Ministers. I hope, however, that during the meeting, they will join this Parliament and provide the necessary information on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2695	I thank Mr. Genjac. In writing, please submit proposals, and here I am taking the opportunity to welcome a member of the Council of Ministers to thank Mrs Gordana Ković, deputy minister. Who's next to the word? Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2696	Dear Chairman, fellow delegates, distinguished guests, when I took a closer look at this agenda, I saw that for seven points of the agenda I don't have any material on me right now. Since they weren't scheduled for today's session, to be honest, I haven't even read it. So it could be very difficult to discuss some points of the agenda, and that's why I'm a little bit surprised by the coordinated attitude of the College to put some of these points or all of these points on the agenda. Of course, I appreciate the aim of the College and the wish of the College to adopt certain legislative projects before the annual vacations in this home, but I think it takes one seriousness to adopt them and that I am truly afraid that this is the way we question their adoption. That's why I'm asking that, after the debate on the agenda, a five-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2697	I would like to thank the delegate Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Who's next to the word? Mr. Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2698	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, it is my right to tell you, it was nice to hear from the chairman that the College has agreed that all the laws that are in this Parliament in the procedure and are proposed under that super-sacrifice procedure, under Article 100, that we here have the custom to say that they should be on the agenda and that such agreement has been reached by the College. I'm in the agenda that I got and from what you've read by the chairman I haven't seen the Law on Public TV Service, so I'm asking if it's a mistake not to include it or if there are other reasons and I suggest that, since it's one of the conditions relating to the Roadmap, that this law be found on the agenda. I believe I will come across support, because I stick to what you yourself have said that in College 5 you have reached the agreement that all the laws proposed under article 100 be on the agenda of today's session. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2699	I thank Mr. Džaferović. Please submit your request in writing. Is there any more debaters on the agenda? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2700	Mr. Chairman, I would just like to clarify what Mr. Džaferović was talking about. As far as I know in the last session, this law was proposed on my part and a few other delegates who joined the proposal under the same procedure that proposed most of these laws today 100, and we were to be informed today whether the minutes in the College had been agreed upon, since it was not the entity majority. I don't see, as far as I know and as much as I remember it was one order of things to report on that. You have three days in the Rules of Procedure to inform whether this agreement has been reached or not. It's a simple elemental part of the agenda. It must be simple on the agenda to let us know whether you have reached agreement or not. Since you have expressed a high degree of consent overnight, from yesterday to today and all the laws that have long stood in this procedure, it is obvious that there is a high willingness not to appear all three members of the Kolegijum, but one as a proposing of these laws, which have come on behalf of different institutions, one is the Council of Ministers, the other are the promoters who have already established these legal bases, so I think that, supporting, of course, always the business procedure that we need to make a decision to declare these laws. That's what I've talked about many times. I'd just like to know why and for what formal reasons the procedure regarding this public service law is not respected, and, well, that would be what's fundamental as a question. For the agenda, for the sake of the public, it was agreed in the last session, Mr Špirić promised that all the points of the agenda, which, if you remember the agreements, were put on the agenda in the procedure of the House of Peoples and, here came Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović's reply, the Minister of Foreign Trade that the Council of Ministers established the response to the iteripation that I submitted and which the College accepted and supported and, I think it would be good to say that it is important to have that interpretation on the agenda. I don't know if we're going to be able to finish everything today until the holidays, because as far as I can see, the solutions for the annual vacations for August of the month have arrived. The 22nd should be a long break by September. I find it very important to say to the team that when a letter arrives and an official memo that would be good except for the answer on one page, the answer found on the Council of Ministers comes, so please as chairman to provide that answer. As far as I know, the answer is about ten and a half pages. It's impossible to verbally just send it as general-technical information. Therefore, I ask you to give us an explanation, so you have suggested that all documents and all important papers of the MPs be placed on the agenda as chairman, which I personally appreciate and support, of course, these proposals that, if our fellow delegates have not met 6 with all the legal acts, they have the opportunity to study this once more during the session itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2701	I thank Mr Spahić. Mr. Jerko Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2702	Dear Chairman, fellow envoys, distinguished guests, paragraph 19 is the law on amendments to the BiH Customs Tariff Act, where it is scheduled to go in accordance with Article 100. I think it's a very complex law, which has over 500 pages. The Rules of Procedure stipulates that, in essence, they can also summarise the laws under Article 100, and I have also been informed that the House of Representatives did not adopt this same law under a reduced procedure, according to their Rules of Procedure, which regulates it under Article 105, so that I propose that this law goes in accordance with Article 99 of the shortened procedure. According to that article, the same could be adopted and the envoys would be able to get time to at least read and look at the law, because in the short time I had to look at it, I saw that the law had a lot of technical disadvantages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2703	I thank Mr. Jerko Ivanković's delegate. Who's answering for a word further? Nobody's answering. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to start answering to state the College's position to address these questions and requests for agenda points. Without the pretense to open the polemics, so I'm asking you that from the alignment, it's not the intention of detachment, it's to try our solution. First, we will start with the latest issue of Jerka Ivanković to point 19 of the Customs Tariff Act, instead of Article 100, it goes according to Article 99. We determine the days of order and then we'll state whether it's a member of 100th or not. We cannot, since it is the request of the Council of Ministers to extend the statement, whether or not we will put it on the agenda, and whether or not we will accept the procedure of Article 100, we will decide when this is the point of the agenda, so that this intervention does not close the alteration of the agenda, but simply when we discuss that item on the agenda. As for this issue of the Genjac delegation's proposal, the agenda item should be the report on the implementation of the budget of the BiH institutions for 2001. We had a position on the College, too, that we should see the light of day as soon as possible, because you know these are reports that have to pass the competent commissions. We received it in our procedure a few days ago and it was already forwarded to the competent committees so that we can expect that report in normal procedure at the next regular session. So, we cannot violate the procedure and the Rules of Procedure and what Ibro Spahić Špirić has promised, does not work this home based on Spiric's promises, but works on the basis of the Rules of Procedure which Mr Špirić is obliged to stick to, as chairman and all of us delegates. As for the agenda for the appointment and completion of the delegation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to the Council of Europe, the College stands at the view that this should be completed and I will tell you what the position of the College is. We took a stand and forwarded it in writing 7 to the College of the House of Representatives because it is a joint delegation. So, we need to get that delegation in line. Our position would be to name two, therefore, to remain principle 2 from the House of Nations – 3 from the House of Representatives. In this sense, our concrete proposals to the College of the House of Representatives were to be Mr Halid Genjac and to be Mr Ivo Živković on behalf of the People's House and to remain three delegates, respecting the national structure, set up a House of Representatives, taking into account the correspondence that was on the route. We think in the College that the delegation itself is not questionable but by replacing members and waiting for a statement from another college, because we alone cannot make a decision, because it is a joint committee of both homes and therefore I ask Mr Genjac for understanding, we will bring this work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to a successful end. It's third, information about the CIPS project. You know, someone might be looking for a agenda point, if he's ready to file a report as a proposed dot. If this project, we also talked about the CIPS project but we don't have any concrete material, based on which we could lead the debate. If the promoter has material that could offer delegates, I don't mind having that agenda point right here. There was a proposal by Mr. Džaferović that the Law on Public TV service, why it is not there. It was a law that was the subject of reconciliation, which is why he's in agreement and it's not on the agenda. These laws are required by an emergency procedure whether delegates or members of the Council of Ministers, therefore, an emergency procedure has been adopted and will be held at the first next session, the Rules of Procedure. First, it must be at the first next session, so it is not included as a item of the agenda and these others are. I'm closing the debate. He asked for a break from Mr. Novaković for five minutes to plead on the agenda points, and if those who sought the agenda points, if it would be a valid explanation, I ask that they either withdraw the request or declare their demands. So, after a break, maybe he's wrong, or if he can, since we've concluded the debate, I'd like to ask if we can listen to Mr. Genjac and give him five minutes' rest.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2704	The report on the execution of the budget arrived in parliamentary procedure at the same time in the House of Peoples as well as in the House of Representatives. Two days ago, the House of Representatives discussed the report on the execution of the Budget and unfortunately adopted the report. In the report on the execution of the Budget, I also found errors that are a question of either intentional errors or forgeries. Such a report, unfortunately adopted by the House of Representatives. Therefore, it is good to establish that commissions have not arrived to discuss the execution of the budget, which means that neither in July nor in August is an annual vacation, it is possible that they will not be able to consider it. I can't deal with it and I suggest that, however, it be at today's session on the agenda. That's the first question. As for the Council of Europe delegation, thank you to the great College for proposing certain people from this home to the Council of Europe. But it's not a college job at all. Since the College has been dealing with what is not to be dealt with and has come to this point. So, waiting for the College of the House of Representatives and the College of the House of Nations to agree on a single formula, we will welcome the end of the year without a complete delegation. 8 No one can propose me to a Council of Europe delegation without asking me first, it is scandalous. I am no candidate, I insist that the delegation completes itself to meet European standards and principles and immediately say I am not, categorically I am not a candidate, but I ask the College to bring the formula into line and at least inform the House of Peoples. Why can't I agree with the formula when they agree to the formula for parties and clubs to propose membership in the Council of Europe delegations, as the Rules of Procedure so requests. And, as far as the CIPS project is concerned, Since there are no competent ministers from the Council of Ministers of Information, since there is no one in charge to offer that information, as vice-presidents of both homes in the media say they don't know anything, they are asking to see if what is written in the press is true. I will prepare information on the CIPS project what I know, to deliver for the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2705	I thank Mr. Genjac. I have no intention of really getting along and we all have to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I said that's binding on the College and all the delegates. A five-minute break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2706	In answer to my proposal to include this law on Public TV service in the agenda today,... if I understood that it was that the agenda of this law was subject to the consent of the members of the College and that you agreed that this law was going to the first next session. Today is the first next session of that alignment, so I wonder why he's not at today's session, and if you're thinking of another first next session, I'd ask you to tell us when that first next session is, because look, you had to have Mr. Šimić today. So before the session, you had to get along. This is the first one. So, I'd like just one brief clarification.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2707	I said what the College agreed, what you got. Since there is no Mr. Šimić we cannot change our decisions, I think we can work without consensus, you have received a clear answer from me and you have received your proposal to make a statement. So, what we need to do now is we're dealing with. I said and read at the opening session. The College also agreed that the Public TV Service Act is being considered under Article 100. If anyone was sitting down like this or whatever, it's not my problem. No, I didn't talk fast, you didn't listen. A five-minute break. Let's get back to work. [[PAUZA]] I want to inform you that after this break, we are Mr. Second Deputy and I, consulting the Rules of Procedure agreed that the Law on Public TV service is found as the 24th point of the agenda. So, to accept Mr. Džaferović and Mr. Genjac and Mr. Ibro Spahić's proposal, when it comes to 9 this proposal, but here we will make it clear that it is the 24th point of the agenda and we are going to plead, since Mr. Halid Genjac has given up the proposed points, we will proceed in a procedural manner. Who is it to be found as a part of the agenda report on the implementation of the 2001 BiH institutions budget without the completion of the commission phase? 5 Who's against it? Who's being held back? I find this point has not been supported by the delegates. Mr Genjac's second proposal was the appointment and completion of a delegation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in the Council of Europe. I've told you what the procedure is that it's a joint commission. Who's to find this item on the agenda? Who's against it? Who's being held back? So the point got most of it, and it's going to be like the 25th point of the agenda. Third, information on the CIPS project. Mr. Genjac said he'd prepare the information. I'm grateful for that. I am obliged as the chairman of the House of Nations to request official information from the official state authority, since this is a state project and my position to ask the Council of Ministers for information for the next session, and prepared information will be welcome for Mr Genjac. Is this supposed to be put on a plea? To make today a part of the agenda. Can the Council of Ministers today submit information regarding the CIPS project? He can't. Let's go to the vote. Who's to make this point a part of the agenda? Who's in? 3 Who is against being a part of the agenda because there is no information from the Council of Ministers? - 4 Who Is Restraint? – 4 So this point has not been supported by delegates and cannot be a part of the agenda. We're going to the final point of the Public TV Service Act to be the 24th point of the agenda. So, unanimously. Who's against it? There isn't. Abstained? – 1 So 12 for – 1 abstention. Please raise these cards more freely and courageously for and against, the cameras are there, but nothing will happen ugly if we adopt the agenda. 10 Who is it to adopt a full agenda, the way you got with the changes? - 12 for it. Who's against it? No one's against it. Who's being held back? – 1 I agree that we have adopted the agenda as the 24th item of the agenda of the addition of the Law on Public TV Service Article 100 and that it is the 25th point of the agenda of the appointment and completion of the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the Council of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. Answer the delegate questions and questions of the delegates Who answers the word? Mr. Ivo Divković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2708	Chairman, I just want to remind you that I, perhaps two to three months ago, now don't know exactly how to ask a single question, which was about the question of the dual citizenship treaty. I believe these colleagues of mine remember. I asked the Council of Ministers for information with which we are in the phase, I would say, preparing a double citizenship agreement, where there's no problem. Then I asked which countries to negotiate with and there are problems and I asked for third information, i.e. under c) if this can be said to inform me which countries, given their problems, it is probably not possible to implement the constitution. I expected to get that answer at the next session. That question is neither difficult nor complicated, nor much political, I would say, coloredly, but I have not received it today, so I would ask to re-convening my question.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2709	I thank Mr. Divković. I would like to ask if we are to be updated again if we are to be re-actuated in writing so that we can forward it to the competent authority. Mr. Ibro Spahić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2710	Mr. Chairman, three very clear questions. First, the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees refers to cases relating to the dismissal of company workers in bankruptcy. First of all, in line with the responsibilities of the Ministry of Refugees and displaced persons and human rights, I would like the Ministry to prepare full information on the Polihem case in bankruptcy, given that I was personally a witness to the situation in Tuzla, at the request of the workers, quite justified to link them with a working internship, i.e. to ensure that all possibilities at canton level were exhausted, I have warned of the practice that the judicial, executive and trade union authorities had linked themselves through one protocol which, in practice, violates the legislative, executive and judicial authorities separately, and I believe that the Ministry of Refugees and displaced persons, human rights have the obligation to inform the BiH Parliament of this case. The second issue is addressed to the third BiH presidency. I'd like to make it quite clear that it's one, three-part question. The first question concerns a military, a permanent military committee. I want to repeat as you colleagues know how to delegate a question. When the BiH Parliament will receive information from the BiH Presidency on the work of a permanent military committee and on recommendations to radically reduce budgets for these victims and take responsibility for civil and parliamentary over this sector, which MPs are well informed about and are involved through numerous different projects. It is time for this Parliament to have information on this area once and to gain insight into the potential of the state. The second issue concerns the Council of Ministers and the Presidency is related to the cohesion of the Protection Agency, for information and protection of BiH. It is known that this law has been passed in both homes and I want to ask a very clear question. When will the process of implementing this law and the establishment of an agency in BiH take place? So, personnel crewing and material coverage and action and effective action of this agency. Of course, the third issue concerns the contents of the BiH presidency's talks as domestic and neighbouring countries' representatives. I think it was important that in front of the BiH Parliament, given that in every country, a relationship with neighbours is a priority, a clear picture of the result of this conversation, and it is inappropriate for the BiH Parliament to be informed through the media. It is only when we have the opportunity to see the whole of this report and the information to be submitted by a representative of the Presidency, presidents or any of the members, that it has been good to include in the spirit of our document called the Resolution on Foreign Policy or with neighbours and Euro-Atlantic Integrations and the Parliament of BiH in a stronger connection and co-operation with these neighbouring countries, given the interests and regional co-operation and the direct interests of the citizens of BiH, in particular in the area of resolving the issues of refugees and displaced persons and working social persons, and any other legislation and the interests of citizens living in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2711	I thank Mr Spahić. Who's next to the word? Mr. Džaferović. I would only beg in writing. It's a matter of business being in written form before delivery, but here.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2712	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, BiH is currently funding state funds around 100 million investments in 100 million KM. You are aware of this and my question does not aim at what is known and we will conduct a debate on this, I hope 12 at this House's meetings. The other day, to the soul from private and semi-official sources, I was informed that this one ugly practice, that the state's assets finance projects in which companies outside BiH are practically exclusively involved. We advocate jobs for employment and, as you can see, 100 million converting marks are the funds that finance projects carried out by companies outside BiH. So, semi-official and private information is that these days, a tender has been completed to select a contractor for the guaranteed transition, Izacic, worth around 10 to 11 million KM, and that, besides the companies that competed from BiH, a company outside BiH has been re-elected. My question to the Council of Ministers is. Is that tender over? Is there a job assigned to, and if it is, who and which firm is it assigned to? That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2713	I thank Mr. Džaferović. Who's next to the word? Mr. Genjac and Mr. Novakov and Mr. Turjačanin.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2714	I have one question for the Council of Ministers. Because today was not a report on the execution of the Budget on the agenda, and I found the following in that report on the execution of the Budežt. That in the Budget Law, the BiH institution for last year's Parliamentary Assembly of BiH established a item in the amount of material service expenditure of 435,000 marks. The report on the execution of the Budget states that the law sets out, for this purpose, an item of 837,000. I ask the Council of Ministers that's one of the items, there's a series of examples like this. At whose request and why has the report on the execution of the Budget committed a harsh violation of the Budget Law of the BiH Institutions for 2001? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2715	I'd like to thank the delegate, Genjac. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2716	My question is addressed to the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Why is Mr. Darko Trifunović not returned to work after determining that he is a BiH citizen? Isn't that why his distance from work is different from the one publicly carried out? What did the foreign minister personally do to resolve the problem or not?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2717	I would like to thank Mr. Novaković, delegate Goran Turjačanin. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2718	My two questions refer to the MIP... the remarks. First, it is one for me to have an inappropriate relationship between the BiH Embassy in Brussels, accompanied by last week's two-member BiH delegation at a session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. I would like to say that in eight days, none of the gentlemen from the Embassy in Brussels have been granted the opportunity to accept Mr Mašić and myself as parliamentarians at the Parliamentary Assembly session, as well, during that session, we also had the happy circumstance that Mr Danis Tanović had the screening of the film of Nobody's country and the assignment of international recognition, unfortunately our participation in such an appropriate representative reception of BiH in the world was... thanks to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat, which has responded in a timely manner and provided our presence at the meeting. At the same time, the second question, also addressed to the MIP and, in some ways, the college of both homes is being touched. For me lately, and this stay in Brussels has shown by me a rather inadequate relationship of delegates, there have been, at this moment from the BiH Parliament, international sessions with a lot of ease in the absence of delegated parliamentarians with international sessions, which, in my opinion, creates an unnecessary ugly picture of BiH in an international reflection. But if there are some struggles for these relations outside, then obviously we have both a picture and a situation that, if we are not in a good way mo... and paid by international mediators, if these are just the costs of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly with the daily ones that are real, we must honestly say quite low for international relations, quite often such travel parliamentarians avoid. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2719	Thank you. I'd like to ask a question. These were more findings. Who's next to the word?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2720	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, in order not to remind me of the fact that I have no question in writing, I am here to express my dissatisfaction. On several occasions at the previous Parliament sessions, I asked a question. Here and now I'm going to set up and twice it's been delivered in writing, I never got an answer to it. The question is very problematic, and a large category of people are practically having problems today because this issue is not resolved. It is, in fact, a contract on mutual rights and obligations of pension and disability insurance users signed between the RS and the Federation of BiH. As you know, that contract is, simply broken up by the RS. What I was looking for may be positive, negative, but I think the Council of Ministers, or the Council of Ministers, must give its position on this issue. Practically, this is my emergency on previously asked questions. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2721	I thank the delegate, Mr. Rokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2722	The speaker of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, Nikola Špirić, has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2723	Dear fellow delegates, esteemed guests, I have received an answer to the question of the last asked question. Does common institutions have jobs on black and why a certain number of workers do not have the right to compensation for a warm meal, health, pension and social security? To a wonderful miracle, I got the self-pronounce I am, as no one in one legal state can expect. The answer is, there are people who work on black 23 who only make cash compensations designed to do jobs for which they are hired, and look at the reason why it stands. Because the Council of Ministers did not adopt a change in job systematisation, and it is said that this systematisation was related to the renovation of the first floor. The European Union managed to renovate three floors and the Council of Ministers failed to change the systematisation. It best says what the Council of Ministers' relationship to this problem is. That the international institution, thanks to the donations, renovates three floors of the Parliamentary Assembly to expand employment by 23 and that the Council of Ministers gentlemen are unable to adapt the systematisation to ensure that these people are employed in accordance with the positive legal rules. Here's the answer you can get in this building and this is what I'm going to give the press to have on the insight or the means of information that they have to read. Another question of mine. For a long time, information has been going through the means of information, not to tell stories that Amp-sped or company management has funded individual political parties. I am now asking the competent institutions whether the financing of political parties takes place in accordance with the Law on the financing of political parties, which we adopted in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and ask for an answer to say that what we read is speculative or weaving for certain political parties that plead to participate in the elections and take votes in such a way. Is there more warning to the political public than to say that someone is funding, that some political option of funding is illegal? My second question is, to the Council of Ministers and the competent institutions of BiH, it is that, instead of, of course, creating an atmosphere of joy that took place on a three-way meeting at Beograc-Zagreb-Sarajevo's route, various information was created... until yesterday that the assassination was prepared, that different Islamic circles were, at least I read in the paper, preparing the assassination of Yugoslav President Koštunica and Mr Mesić. If that's not true, it can't be a blacker contribution to this country than that. If it's true, we ask them to come out clearly and say, yes, that's true, there's that too. How can we keep quiet about it? How is it possible for the competent authorities not to come forward after public appearances and representatives of the international community? So these are my two questions and this finding. I think it's insulting. Here we need to create an atmosphere of 15 reconciliations, mutual respect for good neighbourly relations, and not heat up the atmosphere to create possible delays in these relationships. That's why I asked that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2724	Thank you, Mr. Špirić, please, in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2725	Who's next to the word? No more logged in for this agenda item. So, I'm concluding the first item of the agenda to answer the delegate's pirates and the delegates' questions. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. Ad.2. A record from the 20th and 21st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH Who Answers the Word? There's no debate. I'm closing the discussion on the record. We're going to a plea. Who's to get the 20th and 21st sessions? I find that we unanimously adopted the minutes. Ad.3. The appointment of delegates of the people's home for the members of the joint commission of both homes to reach an agreement on the same text, that is, the Law on Administration was adopted in a different text. The joint commission should achieve agreement and, for the members of the commission, the College has proposed Mr Drgutin Rodić, Šefik Dažferović and Nik Sušac. If there are any other suggestions, I'd like you to present them. There isn't. Who is it to adopt this proposal for a joint commission? Unanimity, 13 so, yes. - The adoption of the law on national minorities So the law on national minorities is also adopted in a different text and we need to appoint a joint commission. The college for the joint commission was proposed by Mr Ivo Živković, Ibrahim Spahić and Goran Turjačanin. Any other suggestions? There isn't. Who's up for this proposal? 13 for. No one's against and no one's abstentions. So unanimous. - The appointment of the concession law committee Members of the College have proposed Momčilo Novaković, Munib Jusufović and Jerk Ivanković for members of the commission. 16 Any other suggestions? There isn't. Who's up for this proposal? I find that we unanimously adopted this proposal. We close the 3rd point of the agenda and move to the 4th point of the agenda. Ad.4. I would like to inform you that the House of Representatives has also appointed a nine-member commission, that in the debates there have been conditions to change the rules of procedure of one and the other. It is our intention, therefore, that both colleges work separately for a time to then sit together and try to bring together that part of the common section relating to the joint activities of both homes. For the members of the commission, we have proposed the chairman, first and second vice-president and chair of the delegates' clubs. So, a six-member commission that would work to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure on the work of the people's homes. I'm opening a hearing if there are any other suggestions. I'm closing the debate. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović. I'm sorry, Genjac. I'm sorry. It's not a deliberate lapus.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2726	The position in the House of Peoples is quite specific not to elaborate on it beyond. However, one of the few parties may be among one or two parties in the House of Peoples that is opposition, is currently the Party of Democratic Action, especially as the chairman and presidents of the MPs' clubs, of course from the ruling parties, I think it would be good if one member of the commission were from the SDA as an opposition party and that the commission would be seven members and I would suggest Mr Džaferović, as it is a delegate who is, by the way, the prime minister and has experience in parliamentary work. So, I think it would be both productive and political and first professional and therefore I expect you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2727	Thank you. So far, we have two suggestions. Any other suggestions? There isn't. We are going to make a statement to the first College proposal that the commission will be composed of the chair and vice-presidential, chairing clubs. Who's up for this proposal? - 11 for it. Who's against it? Who's being held back? - 1 I find this proposal adopted. There's no need to vote on another proposal. 17 We move to the fifth item of the agenda. We adopted. We had two suggestions, a proposal from the College and your proposal to be seven members. This is six. The vote is over, I'm sorry. It's not extra. It's to be a seventh member. There were two proposals, a proposal from the College and a proposal from Mr Genjac. Well, we're done voting, because this turns each other off. So if this proposal is adopted, we can't put it in. I'm interpreting the Rules of Procedure, I guess. You know that. Ad.5. Credit agreement – Framework for the development of livestock and rural financing – Proposer of the Presidency I am opening the debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Who's to ratify this credit agreement? - 11 for who's against it? Who's being held back? - There are no abstentions. So I figure we adopted, ratified this agreement. Ad.6. The agreement on trade in textile products between the European Community and BiH – Proposer of the Presidency I am opening the debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. So there's no one to answer for. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who's to give consent to ratify this contract? - 11 Who's against it? There's no one here. Who's being held back? No abstentions. Thank you. We're moving to the 7th point of the agenda. I beg of you, if there's any objection to the presidency to bring it out publicly. I feel like I'm sticking to the Rules of Procedure and trust me I'll never make a failure that's out of business, but I'm asking the delegates to clearly define the demands that they might be declared. Ad.7. Agreement on Free Trade between BiH and the Republic of Slovenia – Proposer of the BiH Presidency Who Answers the Word? Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2728	I'd just ask one question. Since this contract was once and the commission was then, the committee responsible had a proposal, practically not to adopt the treaty until some other issues were cut, so I wonder if this contract was back on the commission and what was the position of the commission? 18
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2729	Please, do we have the chairman's commission. Who are the deputies? The word has Mr. Ivo Divković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2730	I wasn't at the last session of the commission. So I can't really say if the contract was back on the commission. But I know he's never been on board before. The only thing here is Tokić on Tuesday, I don't know if he was in the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2731	I thank Mr. Divković. Rijeka has a second deputy chairman, Mr. Tokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2732	You are familiar with the reasons why the commission has longed to keep the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly from ratifying this agreement. I would like to point out as information that this agreement is already in force. He's on temporary arrangements and that's how it's gonna be until the end of O.G. At the same time, I am being introduced into the European Union, so that, automatically, Slovenia's accession to the European Union stops and the possibility to realise further this agreement. The Commission has not changed its position. She didn't have this agenda point. I will recall once again the reasons why we, purely political reasons, wanted to make it clear is the issue of balancing exchanges, trade exchanges between BiH and Slovenia which is very bad and the problem of resolving, resolving the issue of the savings of the Ljubljanska banka, which we will have one specific information about, so that the commission has never changed its position with the suggestion that this House does not accept ratification of this agreement as a political expression of the relationship to not resolving these important issues that we have discussed. Of course, the presidency had the right to go again with this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2733	I thank Mr. Tokić. Who's next to the word? Mr. Spahić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2734	First of all, I would like to ask a very clear question, Mr. Chairman. If something is in place and if something is working and if we haven't received any information from anyone yet, and above all from the Council of Ministers who are responsible and here are several deputy ministers present, that one free trade contract damages BiH, therefore, that would be the reason why Parliament should stop ratification, then... relates to it diversified. 19 As far as political reasons are concerned, in relations between the two countries they are today the most... in that BiH is currently president of the Republic of Slovenia and, as far as I know, there are meetings with the Council of Ministers in this building. On the other hand, I would like to say that, in politics, when it comes to inter-state contracts, which are related to the stabilisation of economic space and cooperation in Southeast Europe and to links with countries that are in some way related to countries that are, in a way, directly related to the interests of economic BiH. It is necessary to always see what is the interest of the state itself and it is favored and, what are justified requirements, let's say the foreign savings of the Ljubljanska banka, on which Mr Tokić most of the special information, then what are the interests of the trade balance and imbalances, but in BiH about this issue, I have repeatedly insisted that we shed light on, too, the issue of the free trade agreement with Macedonia. That's, as far as I know, kind of behind us. On the occasion of the free trade agreement with Slovenia, I would like to ask a very precise question. Since it's an opportunity to have a debate, the representatives of the Council of Ministers come out and tell us. Is there other than these political reasons, which are fully explained when it comes to protecting the interests of BiH citizens, who were foreign currency savings at the Ljubljanska Banka, is there any damage to the interests of BiH arising from the contract that is in force? So, eventually, Parliament should intervene in this regard. I'm looking for an explicit statement. This is no longer a matter of how I would say bending over one thing, this free trade agreement on all other issues related to relations between the state, the Republic of Slovenia and the state of BiH, and I am very interested in a public and clear debate on the position of our foreign savings as well as all other BiH citizens who are in any way damaged in relations, as regards BiH and Slovenia's relations. I believe it has no dispute that it will be on the agenda as seen, and then every delegate will have to talk about the problem. But, in order not to bind these two things to me, I would like to clarify the position of the political Parliament, because when I talk about politics, the policy of the BiH State and the Council of Ministers, then our partners in Europe and the world, is that in the areas of Southeast Europe and Europe, there are conditions for free trade and, if this is just one expression of the will to postpone it because of this, what we would like to demonstrate political will in relation to other problems, which are, say, foreign exchange savings or some other problem, trade imbalance, then it would be the Council of Ministers' duty, I hope that this will come out on the basis of today's agenda, too, with clear views, which are not only political but existent. So it's about the interests of the BiH citizens and it's time for us to break this circuit round about it. This is the topic on the agenda accepted as far as I know and voted by all MPs and on this point we will talk very clearly and precisely about what everyone thinks about it and we will be glad to hear the information as far as it has come and how far it has gone for solutions that will be correct and just. Now, I would like to ask that before a statement, however, before the Council of Ministers, someone come out responsible and say so. Whether BiH suffers any damage or, in fact, develop some other relations that are related to other countries and are completely natural and normal and are in addition to what is called the market economy and the interest of a country in openness to other countries. 20 I would like to get an answer, so if you can get Mr. Chairman to provide me and if one of the representatives of the Council of Ministers is willing to say so, he is obliged, because it is indeed one question that is not procedural. Ratification can often also be a question that will raise other issues, it is quite normal, but let's see how much capacity there is, here comes another minister, the strength to clearly and precisely state BiH's position, so as not to harm the general interests of BiH, citizens and I would say a policy that, in terms of the market, is free and for co-operation in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2735	The speaker of the House of Peoples, Mr Nikola Špirić, called.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2736	Honorable delegates, esteemed guests, respected members of the Council of Ministers, you see, I think we're talking politics here, not the essence of an agreement which is subject to ratification. I would like to inform you that the House of Representatives has ratified this agreement between BiH and the Republic of Slovenia. I do not believe that the BiH presidency would send as a serious body to Parliament for ratification of an agreement that is harmful to BiH. I know that the trade exchange imbalance at the expense of BiH has been opened for a number of years between BiH and Slovenia, but it is not to Slovenia, but to BiH. So, if we want to export not only to Slovenia someone to Europe, then we need to do more on legislation, in terms of the production of products that can go to a selective market. It seems to me that, when it comes to the ratification of these agreements, if we don't ratify the agreement, we can send an ugly political message in addition to that, instead of opening relations, regulation of relationships, etc. The free trade agreement can't be a condition or a condition, it seems to me that, in my view, it's not good with that agreement to condition some other things that should be dealt with diplomatically. I know it is very difficult to regulate all relations that the countries that have been created by the collapse of the former Yugoslavia, but I am so that we all put a lot of effort together at all levels, not just this parliament, but the executive authority of BiH to have these relations on the rise line, so I think it would be good today, regardless of the Commission's warning that we are ratifying this agreement. I will make my contribution on this path, therefore, to vote for ratification of this agreement, and it would be good that, simply with important state projects, therefore, in important state projects of olives and politicians by politicising certain things, they do not interfere with the construction of good relations. So this is a matter that BiH should take care of, as should those states that want to establish relations with BiH. So, I will vote for ratification of this agreement and it seems to me that we will not make a mistake if we ratify the agreement today, and of course all the warnings that delegates give should be forwarded to the relevant institutions in BiH. Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Mr. Genjac. Here you go. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2737	Indeed, we should be managed by the interests of the state and the content of the agreement in a professional and legal and concrete area. It's a situation of opportunity next. The issue of saving the Ljubljanska Banka is being tremendously sharpened. We have an apparent arrogance on the part of the Slovenian state and representatives of the Slovenian state and a record... that this issue is addressed in an adequate manner. On the other hand, we have a situation that the agreement as it is today, we already have with all the neighbouring dwarves, that this is the road which is the way to Europe, that this is a path that cannot be avoided in achieving co-operation with neighbouring countries and that is clearly the interest of BiH, the long-term interest. We've had some interpretations of certain garnigtures that say so the good deal is in effect anyway. He's changing. If we don't ratify it and give consent and give consent. In other words, however we make clear, the agreement is applicable and our not stating could be a certain kind of message to the Slovenian stranger that anyone is a little bit fit. I don't see that the Slovenian side will belong to any of these effects either. I think we need a very clear set of things. If the ratification agreement is, if its ratification agreement, if it is in preparation, it should also give consent to be ratified. However, if there is any chance that the issue of this agreement is treated in a way that addresses the issue of the savings of the Ljubljanska Banka, the issue of suspension of this agreement should be raised immediately. If that was the case, there is little chance of solving the issue of Ljubljana savings. So, I'm up for that approach. The fact that the House of Representatives has ratified, since the agreement is in place, since it is a practice with all neighbouring countries, I don't think we have much room for something that could be called manipulation. But also, if there is any chance that this issue is sharpened in a way that solves the issue of the savings of the Ljubljanska Banka, I am in order to initiate the procedure for the suspension of this agreement and this would be a fair relationship with the content of this agreement, and to all those who are in some way interested in these issues that are related. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2738	I thank Mr. Genjac. The word has Mr. Tokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2739	It's not said to belong. It's scared. I just went out and transferred the commission's position from a few months ago. I didn't speak my mind at all. And to all of you who are now discussing it, I can offer a stenogram of discussion when this was in the House and Dom refused ratification. This was once at the House of Peoples and Dom refused. The only information I wanted to say was that the commission, meanwhile, did not discuss this issue at all, nor did it change its position. Whether the House will change its attitude today, that is, of course, the topic of the debate, but don't act like you didn't discuss it differently last time. 22 Since there is already an advance declaration here that anyone will act like my chairman, so I will say so. I was restrained last time, and now I'm going to be abstention on this issue, because I don't think that this issue should be so easily refused or accepted, especially without an analysis of the Council of Ministers we've been looking for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2740	I thank the other deputy, Mr. Tokić. Who's next to the word? Mr. Ivanković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2741	Dear Chairman, fellow Islamics, distinguished guests, the agreement with Slovenia has been in effect since the beginning of this year and has been going on for six months. I propose that we refer the agreement to the Commission and that the Commission analyses the effects of this agreement within six months and then give Dom an opinion on how to act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2742	I thank Mr Ivanković. Is it a guilty quote? Wrong quote on the wrong path.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2743	I couldn't possibly get confused like that, the walking one. As a delegate, I have asked for a representative of the Council of Ministers, here we now have a second rank and minister, very explicitly before parlament to say whether the free trade agreement, which is entirely in the spirit of BiH's economic policy, as well as the interest of our entire environment, is real or not real damage. The BiH Council of Ministers here is represented very representatively all of them are experts. We also have a minister, and we're asking him to make a simple statement before us, so now I'm thinking we're going to go to the board now, and we're going to come back to talk to you again and we're going to come back next year. You know, politics needs to separate what's important and what's the state's interest, and in this case, I'm undermining it once more. At first, relations not resolved between BiH, which affect the interests of BiH citizens, such as foreign exchange savings is foreseen by today's agenda and announced and I see no reason not to get the right answer in the best interests of the interdisciplinary relations of the minister who is sitting here. It's his job. What else is he going to do or the deputy? Don't let it get away from us. What? If something is producing damage, and perhaps delegates are not informed, I do not see how the Commission for Foreign and Economic Trade, in which all experts themselves are also sitting, will better assess the matter without a public assessment given by a representative of the Council of Ministers. I highly appreciate my colleagues and their expertise, but I'd like to hear people who are responsible in the country run... politics that's executive power and that's the Council of Ministers. It's a clean thing. Why run from it? I thought I'd hear their answer, so I kept saying more about other things, but I'd like to get a chance. We have a right to ask. Here's a complete team. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2744	If you hadn't discussed Ibro twice, you might have heard.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2745	I didn't listen to you because I asked the Council of Ministers. I believe in your expertise on these issues, but I'd like to hear a representative from the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2746	People will get the word. Who's next to the word? Mr. Divković and Mr. Rodić. The Council of Ministers will certainly get a chance to, if it feels the need to plead out on this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2747	Well, Mr. Chairman, it seems to me that this is the only agreement we've been leading the controversy about so far on free trade, and for the public's sake, it is necessary to say what the commission was doing when we were sort of having reservations about the ratification of this agreement. First of all, we treated this agreement from the point of view of BiH's interest. It is BiH's interest to have agreements with all countries of this type and it is not disputed. The agreement is already in force. We've figured it out, so there's no obstacle to the goods going through. However, what was the reason for us to plead so? Well, the expression of one political will, because there was a certain discriminatory relationship at the border of the Republic of Slovenia towards some goods. Remember that time of milk, etc. This foreign currency savings which are concerned, etc. We wanted you to be here at Parliament then, that is, at the House we accepted all together to send this one political message, which basically comes down to seeking a more equal relationship with the Republic of Slovenia on a mutual scale, and in accordance with the Agreement signed by the Council of Ministers with them and which is in force. It was the essence of things. If we're going to ratify him today or not, that's what we're going to define, but I think the charge knows the reasons why we pleaded so on the committee, and then I'd say to Dom that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2748	I thank Mr. Divković. Who's next to the word? Dragutin Rodić. I apologize to Mr. Secretary. When the delegates are finished, the Council of Ministers can explain it to everyone so we can discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2749	I have no intention of talking about the agreement, since the agreement is applicable and this is a defacto situation and this is something else right now, I just wanted my colleagues Spahić, as he insists on making a statement on this by the Council of Ministers, I just wanted to intervene to say that he is the legislator of this agreement as the Presidency. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2750	I thank Mr Rodić. If he feels the Council of Ministers can, Minister Domazet has asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2751	Dear Mr. President, the distinguished representatives of this high house. Looks like you need to say here about two groups of questions and some attitudes. One group of issues is about a trade agreement between Slovenia and BiH and another group of issues related to the problem of foreign savings. I think, by the way, that in front of this house, so before the Parliamentary Assembly there is always a question of how to implement principled commitment in practice. So, we have the principled commitment of transition reforms, the principles of liberalisation, the creation of a free trade zone, the integration of BiH into broader integration, with the aim of coming to Europe, and these definitions must be implemented through globalised ways, which are already being applied by all democratic countries. One such way is to create a free trade agreement, which is the lowest form of integration. He's based on a bilateral agreement. The higher form is multilateral, let's say, the idea of creating Southeast Europe through free trade protor, which is likely to be achieved as a reality for some time. However, we are going to bilateral agreements. They're much more complex and they're low-level and they're making some economic effects impossible, the volume that multilateral agreements respect. Bosnia and Herzegovina has a basic goal through creating a zone, free trade with neighbouring countries, countries of the region to increase its companies' access to markets, without customs barriers. Here, you take our market, the market that four million people four billion and four million dollars of social product. In this market, many types of production cannot achieve their justification at all. However, if you include the former Yugoslavia market, it is 68 billion and Slovenia itself is a market of $30 billion. Of course, opening and own market can be considered a victim, but access to another market should be considered a potential gain and that is a basic fossil, a fossil of the economy, a brand of economics and integration of economics. The question now is, therefore, how much our economy is able to take advantage of free access to the Slovenian market and whether the Slovenian economy is higher, because of more competitiveness, to use the possibility of access through gradual liberalisation on the Bosnian-Herzegovic market. The long-term needs to be... an execution. So the winners are all. But in the short term, it could probably be an effect that an undeveloped country is a loser and a developed winner. We compensated for the fact that we were able to obtain concessions from the Slovenian government that we had immediately 100% of the customs duties removed and their goods would be gradually released from customs. It's an attempt to compensate the undeveloped country's effect. One area of 25 expected ekts is the possibility of expansion of our exports. The second area, particularly important in this case, is that free trade will provoke the effect of a larger inflow of foreign direct investment from Slovenia. After the macro-economic development of economic development, developed trade has a result in developing foreign direct investment, and this is what Slovenia should expect in the biggest effect. This is possible, since it is now among BiH's leading investment countries, expected to achieve much higher, much more quality forms of joint investment in which domestic BiH companies would partnerly develop production that could go to third markets, which is our particular practical interest. So, when it comes to this agreement, the Council of Ministers assessed, led, firstly by this discussion, two or three times the agreement was discussed, such a discussion was conducted, and the Council of Ministers concluded that this agreement should be concluded and proposed to the Bureau for further verification. Therefore, the Council of Ministers' view is that this is BiH's long-term interest, that this is a step in expanding the free trade zone in Southeast Europe and that this is an extremely important issue for future economic development. So, we have to prove, Parliament has to prove that we are on an integration course. That we're on the cross of liberalisation, that we're on a course of overcoming the car... that we're on a cross-section over the barriers of customs etc. In exchange with Slovenia, we have one problem, and this is the problem of the existence of non-tariff barriers, primarily barriers to quality and product control and that is perhaps the biggest burden on which we in the Council of Ministers actively participate, we are actively working on solving these problems. One such project is a draft law on the BiH Veterinary Service, which you will soon adopt. I hope you will adopt it, because it is a prerequisite for the expansion of our exports of agricultural products not only to Slovenia but also to other countries, because without such service there is no possibility of ensuring the competitiveness of our exports. Then, standardisation and other many solutions affecting product quality are the preconditions to take advantage of these opportunities. There is also today, in conversations with President Kučan, we have turned the most serious attention, there are other forms of discriminatory which can be called just as administrative discriminatory forms, which are said to be completely removed if we do what we do on our own. I could now conclude this chapter with one chance for our exporter. I'll tell you a lively concrete example of the Hivnica Konjuh had ambitions on the Slovenian market and sold there two or three million marks. However, from this Konjuh while I was vice president of the Chamber, I received such a fierce letter of the following content. How do you think we will compete in Slovenia's market for Croatian furniture manufacturers who have free trade with Slovenia. So, gentlemen, please note that we are not the ones who dictate the first game. We're part of the first game. So this is about one multilateral, global approach. Today, our Konjuh will have the same conditions as the Croatian producer in the approaches of Slovenia's market. Of course, it doesn't go without reciprocal concessions. There are the first games and please, our future is to ensure 26 regional competitiveness. To be competitive on the regional market. This is actually the first step in going out on that arena. The regional market arena. Secondly, what I was going to say was about the foreign exchange damage to our savings at the Ljubljana Bank.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2752	That's a special agenda point. I can ask you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2753	Thank you very much. I'm sorry. I thought it was my obligation.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2754	Special.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2755	So I was going to say in the context of this. The issue of foreign savings is one problem that we have to address by focusing on it, because by questioning the overall economic and political relations we are developing with Slovenia.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2756	I thank Minister Domazet. It seems to me that his exposure has managed to resolve the dilemmas that existed among certain delegates. Who's coming forward for the debate? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the raps. We're going to a plea. Who's to ratify this agreement today? - 9 Who's against it? Who's being held back? - 3 I find that with 9 votes for and 3 abstentions we have ratified the Free Trade Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Slovenia. We're moving to the 8th point of the agenda. Ad.8. An agreement between the government of BiH and the government of the SR of Germany on financial assistance for the establishment of a professional workforce that is returning to BiH – the BiH Presidency's proposal, you have received a report from the committee in charge. I'm opening a debate on the 8th agenda. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2757	This report was on the committee responsible. Since I am a member of this committee, we, at that time on the commission, have practically expressed our reservations not according to the agreement, but we have asked for clarification of some terms. I personally asked the commission to clarify 27 specific terms, i.e. why the agreement between the government of BiH and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany is when it is common in almost all agreements that agreements between states are between the Federal Republic of Germany and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, I don't mind, it doesn't matter what it's called an institution that signifies an agreement, whether it's called a government or called a Council of Ministers or called a Council of Ministers, it's important to me to have its powers defined and that's not the problem. For me, it is much more important that agreements like this and all other agreements use the terms in the BiH Constitution. I don't see any reason to use other terms here. The explanation we got from the OHR is, I don't know if everyone got it, it just shows that my reserve shown by this has room. In fact, there was a clear explanation of the Council of Ministers that it was impossible to change and that SR Germany did not want to enter into it, since for them the matter was finished the agreement is as it is and the opportunities are as they are. And then OHR said in an explanation. These words, that's what he said in this term. His correct translation into Serbian would therefore be not government but state. That is also the word used in Article 1st position 1 in the existing translations of the BiH Constitution into Serbian. If that's the case, and I said it at the very beginning, it means that this is about an agreement between states, then why did someone translate the government? Why didn't he translate the state? And I don't see any reason why what doesn't need to be done right now, especially if it can be assumed that it can cause certain problems. I still think that the intention of translation is quite different, and if it's a matter of translation, then we had the attitude to translate it differently, if it's a matter of translation. I insist now if it's a matter of translation to be translated into terms that are in the Constitution. But if it's not a translation, then someone here should say from the D.O.D. Why is that? This is the second agreement of this nature and it's interesting that in the signing of both agreements is Mr. Lagumdžija. For other agreements signed by other ministers, we do not have this situation, which can somehow be a warning to me by some other nature. For these reasons, I would like to suggest that this agreement be returned and translated into a way of using the terms that are constitutional categories.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2758	I thank Mr. Novaković. The word has Mr. Spahić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2759	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would like to say that I am expressing a very special recognition to the government of the SR of Germany and the Government of BiH for reaching an agreement on financial assistance, i.e. the establishment of a company by a professional workforce, which is returning to BiH, because I was talking about it two days ago that one of BiH's major resources is a working force in the diaspora or in BiH's resettlement and refugee. That's the first thing I'd like to say. 28 Secondly, when it comes to the notion of a determination, I would also like to give recognition to Mr. Novaković and express my special satisfaction as a delegate to the House of the Peoples of BiH that I have welcomed after many years of work, following different interpretations of the concepts in BiH, that the concept of the Devil is strongly affirmed here, and I am pleased that Mr. Novaković has so strongly followed the concept of the state of BiH in this translation. In this regard, I am in full support of Mr Novaković's position, as it is an interstate agreement and the instruments of the interstate agreement, whether the ministries were different governments, etc. As far as meaning and translation are concerned in this context, I find no excuse to return this agreement to the Commission, nor to block such a very important agreement, which may be one of the most concrete, rare, concrete in terms of the citizens of BiH, a BiH citizen who stimulates the SR Germany government to establish a business in BiH in his country by returning and to be supported by the SR Government that has given so much money for refugee status over the past years and by our citizens in SR Germany. Therefore, there is no reason to return this agreement. As for the signatories, I'm, I don't know if it's German or English. I'm not quite convinced that it's not exactly intrinsic because I don't see it on the Internet that other ministers rule other than the one mentioned, and in that sense whether it's a termological tendency with ministers, but in this agreement the subject is... the key thing is that all ministers at least speak German, Russian and English well, that would be crucial. Secondly, if it was the intention of pointing out one minister, I believe we will have the opportunity to affirm both the other ministers and the deputy ministers as language-knowers. I didn't know this was a linguistic debate or polygotic. When it comes to two relationships between one institution and another, for all the normal world in BiH, I say normally that I am not insulting anyone, I say that normal states with systems with work, do not refer to Mr. Novaković's statement so that there is no reason to call on my, wrong quote or real, because I would say the whole logical world not to be misunderstood, I am improving the notion is the position of our council of ministers the position of the government of a country. Now, if you're going to call it one way or another, it's a matter of more of your impressions, but we have a government currently called the Council of Ministers and, indeed, this agreement should not depend on the translation of n Serbian, Bosnian or Croatian and thus reduce things. I ask Mr Novaković to withdraw his proposal in the spirit of this general interest, which he has affirmed as a representative of the Commission for this agreement and to support his interest in state, nature and position of the citizens of BiH in this case and in the world, and in this way today we ratify this agreement which is precious and I know that Mr Novaković's interests are the same as the interests of all citizens who return as professional labour and that it is good that we have such an agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2760	I thank Mr Spahić. Replica, wrong quote to Mr. Novaković, what is it? Replica. Here you go. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2761	Of course, I have no intention of getting involved in some big replicas with Mr Spahić, but I can't help but notice two of these stated findings. First, that the name of an institution is a matter of impressions, of individuals, it's not clear to me until today and, obviously, our impressions seem a little different. So it's not an Olympic debate. It is a translation of an agreement into Serbian and it is quite logical that the terms of the constitutional category are used in that translation, perhaps in Bosniak language it is called the Government or I don't know either, but I beg you, therefore, I asked for it, and it is not a matter of any of my impressions. As for today, I have heard for the first time that the translation depends on who the minister is and what language the minister speaks. Well, I didn't even know the ministers were translating this agreement. I thought it was some kind of service.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2762	I thank and ask the delegates to get into the essence of that. No problem, here's the wrong quote. But I'm asking you to stick to the point that we don't spend time on polemics that they won't solve, they don't solve the problem. At least stick with it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2763	I am also convinced that Mr. Novaković is deeply in favour of this agreement because of financial assistance for the establishment of a company by an expert, underlining the workforce that is returning to Bosnia and Herzegovina's delegate as well as I who will support the ratification of this agreement. As for the linguistic part, translations into normal Serbian, Bosnian and Croatian languages in this case in the official languages of Bosnia and Herzegovina do not mean the formation of a fourth name for the Bosniak language. Such a language still under that name does not exist, but would also
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2764	I'd like to ask you, this isn't a language debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2765	So, don't speak, the language of the essence of the interest of the House of Peoples, the House of Representatives of the Parliament of BiH, we support a good agreement between the states of the Federal Republic of Germany and Bosnia and Herzegovina, whose executives are the government of one and the other. I think it's a good substitute like this so we don't have to be burdened by the government of one state or another.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2766	You've wasted your time with the wrong quote. Thank you very much. Who's picking up the word? Mr. Jusufović. Here you go. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2767	I'm the club president, so I'm not under orders. Mr. Chairman, I think this debate is a little bit out of the essence, that is, the course of this issue and should return to the point. I want the same as a member of the Commission to work for the public to inform Mr. Novaković, as a colleague who also participates in the Commission's work, and he is the Vice-President, only as far as I know you have not been translated by Mr. Novaković clearly. You've asked me what I'm not getting into. Therefore, the response received from the OHR should be observed precisely in such a single light not only of this agreement but of any other agreements and any other relations in international law. So logical is the translation. The international community is not interested in what we call the Council of Ministers, someone says the Council, and it should essentially be the Government in international law. Therefore, the Federal Republic of Germany and all that is said in the OHR translation does not just mean that we are called the Council of Ministers or the Council as they call it. It implies all attributes of the government of a state. In this context, the government should be viewed as a sublimation by saying the synthesis of all the authorities of a single state. That's exactly the translation. It can't be any different. These interests in this case represent this body I call government, you call it one way or another. Call whatever you want, she basically is. Maybe you're on the right track when you suggested you give me those tongues some sort of stretch. The same thing there seems to me on this, in this agenda proposal, it seems to me that my colleague Ibro Spahić is proposing, before it is Tokić, so I was the promoter. It never came to the agenda. I hope that once there will be a Pedulum Act on the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we will deal with these dilemmas. And today I really suggest that since someone is giving the help of the essence you should look at and we do the translation simply say we want to refuse help. That's what I think we really don't have.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2768	The word has been given by the chairman of the House of Peoples, the esteemed Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2769	Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial assistance for the establishment of an undertaking by a professional workforce returning to Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think we should deal with the essence of the agreement. God forbid there is someone in this country who wants to provide favourable credit funds for thousands of homeless people who are wandering Bosnia and Herzegovina, and also have the expertise needed by the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 10 million marks, read Article 2 that makes available to the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany for the return of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to Bosnia and Herzegovina are not insignificant and therefore I think that as parliamentarians we should 31 thank the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany and all other states that have been willing to help return citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to Bosnia and Herzegovina in a way that opens up new jobs and strongly support the economic development of Bosnia and Herzegovina through small and medium-sized enterprises. The figure of 5 million that will need to provide 5 million marks to the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina is also not small with regard to our budgetary situation, and these are not the funds that will solve the problem of the return of the professional workforce, but in any case, this agreement is worth my support. I will give my vote to ratify this agreement. I think these language-related things are our long-standing polemics and dilemmas that haven't been solved so far. It seems to me that, of course, Mr. Novaković's warnings against the ratification of the treaty, I think the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina is a matter that we must all respect without reserves and without anger and that we must act legally. So, I think that today we should look at the essence of this agreement, that it needs to be ratified and that conditions should be created for more of these agreements to be and to create conditions of course for credit and for what we say is a sustainable return within Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that this qualified workforce finds peace of mind to create new jobs and that Bosnia and Herzegovina is going to those reform routes that we all are so happy to talk about. So, I think it's a good deal and it needs to be ratified. Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Who is it to ratify this agreement? - 11 Who's against it? - Nobody. Who's being held back? – 1 We therefore conclude that the agreement between the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial assistance for the establishment of an undertaking by a professional workforce returning to Bosnia and Herzegovina has been ratified by 11 votes in favour and 1 abstention. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda. It's Ad. Nine. Information on the settlement of the Ljubljanska banka savings issue submitted by Information Council of Ministers. Perhaps we should hear the presentation of the Council of Ministers' representatives and open the debate. Do you agree? Thank you very much. I call upon a representative of the Council of Ministers, therefore, to take part. Mr. Minister Ante Domazet. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2771	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, this is not the Council of Ministers' position, nor is this Council of Ministers' material. Because we didn't just discuss it. We are preparing the information, and you have asked for it to be delivered within one information, and that is what the Ministry of Treasury as a Resolute Ministry has delivered to Parliament and I can say some things here, but these are not the views of the Council of Ministers, because they simply need to be established. It would be pretentious for me to now say that these are the Council of Ministers' views. If you want me to put it this way, I can, if you're looking for the Council of Ministers' position, we have to wait for those opinions.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2772	I thank Minister Domazet for this correct attitude. I'm asking for a five-minute break to take a stand on whether we're going to be working on a basis (determinations) and information from the Treasury Ministry or the Council of Ministers. Let's have a little consultation to make. A short break for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2773	The respected chairman of the House of Peoples, respected MPs, the issue of foreign savings has been one of the most prominent economic political topics for a long time. We have some new elements now, and I'd just come from them. In fact, it can be said that the ratification of the Agreement on Succession by the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia is one of the very important moments that creates a new, new-quality basis for resolving this problem. Today, a practical conflict agreement has not yet been ratified in the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, and we believe that they will speed up the job after Slovenia has made the move. The problem of foreign savings has been observed in the context of succession. Efforts were made as one obligation and the right of the countries of the former Yugoslavia's co-excessors, the foreign savings that came from the citizens of one country of the latter, through branches of parent banks that were in other countries of followers, or then the republics of the SFRY. In a concrete case for Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is significant that the Ljubljanska Banka had its own branch in Sarajevo through which the collection of savings for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and allocated to Slovenia. That's very important. Transferred to Slovenia from where arrangements with the National Bank of Yugoslavia entered the balance sheets of Slovenia, thus improving its position, buying foreign exchanges that went through the National Bank of Yugoslavia with all the positive economic effects that came out of it. 33 We, our request from Bosnia and Herzegovina is under way and later quantified at about 250 million marks towards the Ljubljanska Banka and Invest Banka DD Belgrade for branches in Sarajevo and Tuzla at 132 million. At the same time, we were in a debt position to save our branch of the Sarajevo Business Bank in Ploča, and that amount is somewhere around 29 million marks. As you can see, our total claims are 382 million and about 29 million debts, so a big positive balance of about 345 million. Hence, it is understandable that our interest in solving this problem is extremely high. I must say that the same attitude, when it comes to the Ljubljanska banka, has a similar attitude in Croatia. Croatia is, Croatian citizens have also saved in the branches of the Ljubljanska Banka in Croatia and are looking for a much larger amount on this basis, I can't tell you exactly, but between 600 and 800 million marks are based on this. I want to point out that there are some countries, such as Croatia has been very correct in solving the problem of saving our citizens in Croatia who have paid full deposits. So Slovenia remained in some way the Ljubljanska Banka and this Invest Banka in Belgrade remained as in Bosnia and Herzegovina they remained as an unresolved problem. It is important to point out another fact, all the countries of the former Yugoslavia except Bosnia and Herzegovina have solved the problem of saving towards their residents through public debt, through one-off payments, etc. and thus all citizens except the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are compensated. So our citizens are in this position in the worst position. I would now like to say that within the framework of the Standaj Agreement with the IMF, we have agreed to prepare a programme for the reconciliation of the internal debts of Bosnia and Herzegovina in which the foreign savings of its citizens represents the highest amount. It's moving around about 2.5 billion marks. So in September 2003, when Stendbej points Stendbaj and when the obligation to prepare this programme begins, we must have solutions to settle internal debts, and especially to settle the foreign exchange, the old frozen savings guaranteed by the state of time. In this context, the proposal to reconcile these obligations with the assets of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You know we've already made a decision about the succession to put into account a depositary and it's waiting for that period when the internal debts will begin to settle. Income from privatisation also some other revenues. It is believed that foreign savings should not be reduced in fact to any percentage, but must be reconciled in total with the fact that the interest issue is still open. Republika Srpska, for example, has recognised interest until some time in its savings, and in the Federation interest is not accounted for since 92, April 92. So we have a situation in which foreign exchange savings as an internal debt to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina must be taken over, i.e. entities on a subtle basis and had this issue of claims to Slovenia and Serbia, i.e. Yugoslavia over 34, because of their parent banks that absorbed money from Bosnia and Herzegovina and transferred it to the then national bank. Now you see from this you can see how important it is that we solve the foreign savings problem that was in Ljubljana Bank and Invest Bank, because the more from this basis we ensure compensation for our savings the less Bosnia and Herzegovina will have to settle from its assets for payment and savings. So if we have 2.5 billion total debt per foreign exchange savings, and we have 350 million claims, then if we charge everything the state will have to provide 2 billion and 150 million, not two and a half billion. Therefore, this problem of billing this savings is at the same time a problem in which there are two stakeholders strongly exposed. These are citizens who have savings, but also the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We were very active in the process of succession. Following ratification of the Council of Ministers' Succession Agreement, a special programme was developed. It has appointed an expert group that has carried out further activities provided for in the Agreement on Succession and which will now have some new obligations that we will probably also have as the Council of Ministers and as Parliament to establish in further action. What did the Sucession Agreement foresee? The concession agreement envisioned continuing within the framework of the bank for international alignments in Fazel to discuss the possibility of resolving the issue of succession in the form of some small, conditionally named arbitration. And the Bank for International Alignment has offered good conditions and in it several mosses organized meetings and proposed some solutions that I must say, here at the last session of July 5th resulted practically in one failure to solve the problem. What were the proposals that resulted in as an aut of work within the bank for international alignments. This was the proposal to treat half of the claims based on foreign savings according to the territorial principle. So where the citizens come from, this new country needs to settle those 50% claims. So we would need about 175 million marks to settle our burden 50% would go according to the legal principle, so in principle, where the parent bank's headquarters was receiving money from the savings. This means that the remaining 50% would be covered by the Ljubljana Bank, i.e. Slovenia and Yugoslavia via Invest Bank. That solution didn't satisfy us and we had a negative attitude. So, such an attitude was actually made by Croatia as an interested party and simply that arbitration in Basel was ended in failure. We will now have this information on the Council of Ministers and will consider further activities. I can now say as responsible resolution minister that, based on consultation with the representatives of the Savings Association, it should now take up new activities within the Council of Europe, try to resolve this problem within its institutions, given that it is one of the fundamental human rights in question and that there are simply a lot of reasons for that to be considered there. We are also considering today in talks with President Kučan, as this issue was extremely important, we mentioned the idea of starting direct negotiations with Slovenia at the government level. We have a feeling that this idea is, and I think that, that the Council of Ministers will operate and that we will begin these talks. 35 So on two lines we could continue to activity with that we have to determine when it's that dedling when we have to have results. After all, there remains a lawsuit in which Bosnia and Herzegovina would appear as the applicant for Slovenia and try to resolve this problem in accordance with international law. We must now strengthen our expert group. We will especially hire one international law attorney and try to strengthen our demands more legally than in political terms. In politics it is extremely well understood, and I think it is necessary to further strengthen these legal arguments in order to ultimately be able to solve, for example, any lawsuits. Anyway, I think the basic message from this whole thing has to be that our savings can't be victims in any way. That we must ensure that they are through one internal debt settlement programme fully concentrationed on the basis of a law that will certainly be passed by this parliamentary assembly, I think by the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think these designed activities could result in perhaps some limited effects, and most of all, I personally take the lead in direct negotiations. In the end, I would like to say that this problem of foreign savings has been brought into the context of overall relations with Slovenia. Today, we have expressed concern that this problem is not being solved. The same concern was expressed by the Slovenian side. The slovenački side has assured that it wants to be a friendly country in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that it wants to be treated as a friend in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that it will do many concrete things to prove it. However, when it comes to the issue of foreign savings, they point out that they exist, that they have certain restrictions and that is certainly not an easy job. As far as we're concerned, I also said in the first part of my move that I think we need to run the activity so that we treat foreign exchange savings as a problem that we can solve this way, as I've put it, thinking, and that our context for overall political economic relations should not be questioned because of this problem. So, we do not consider it productive for Bosnia and Herzegovina, for its long-term interests, boycott Slovenian goods, demonstration against Slovenian companies, boycott Slovenian investors, creating legal uncertainty for Slovenian companies in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I particularly point out that would be a disastrous defeat of the rule of law in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we should not allow that. We simply need to develop the capacity to develop relations between economic and political, even with the existence of such a neural problem, which we want to solve also on the democratic and legal and including the judicial component of the base. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2774	I thank Minister Domazet. Mr. Tokić answered for the word, so Mr. Turjačanin. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2775	Speakers, gentlemen of the delegations of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, I find it very important that today we have this information from the Ministry of Treasury in view of the new moments we have in this process to address the issue of saving the savings of the Ljubljanska Banka. I am thinking primarily of the collapse of the negotiations in Basel, then I think it is very important to point out that the Federation government has abolished one conclusion that has been reached in the previous structures of the government, which has provided a very strong argument to Slovenian negotiators in a certain way, avoiding the obligation to pay the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Ljubljana Bank's subsidiary in Sarajevo, and that in a certain way we have the fact that in the Council of Europe after the June session, parts of the session have been restarted to discuss this issue before the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights of the Council of Europe. I would fully support the activity of the expert team here with which I had the opportunity to synchronise activities several times, but in a certain way this conclusion, proposed by Minister Domazet himself, made it more operational in such a way that this information with a concrete plan of the Council of Ministers' activities to resolve this issue should be kept at the latest until 1 September, since the first discussions and consultations in the Council of Europe have already started on 5 September and all the countries participating in the debate will appear with the official position of their governments and it would be very embarrassing that we do not have the official position of the Council of Ministers in so far before I think there is no dispute in the Parliamentary Assembly or in the Council of Ministers. Secondly, I believe that, at the same time, the whole process of our efforts to make legal progress and diplomatically through this situation should be defined by the end of this year, and that the second conclusion is that the Council of Ministers should begin to prepare a final measure by the end of the year, which is an official interstate lawsuit against Slovenia, in so far as we have a strong argument on this issue. And I think one such conclusion is very important because the Slovenian government obviously intends to stall as much as possible by resolving this issue. This was also felt in the statements of their representatives in Strasbourg when they insisted in a certain way, with a view to holding negotiations in Basel that the process in the Council of Europe should be stopped completely, which was actually a desire to buy time. Of course, I am not in favour of developing an anti-Slovenian mood on the basis of this issue, but I have full understanding of the bitterness of the savings of the Ljubljanska Banka Banka and even of their call for a boycott of Slovenian goods, given the irresponsibility of the Slovenian government, regardless of which this boycott is unfortunately directed against economic operators who are neither guilty nor obliged to eat in the whole process of not resolving this issue in bilateral relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Slovenia. So, I will repeat through three processes, we can resolve this issue, through bilateral negotiations, the Slovenian side, I think that in the Council of Ministers' operational plan, it would have to be made clear whether they accepted the negotiations officially, given that they were very different in public 37. They agree to talk, and then they say that there is actually no such conversation, although one of our groups upstairs was officially staying, or an expert group. Secondly, to intensify the activities of the Council of Europe in a way that we have the official views of the government, the Council of Ministers' pardon and the treći by the end of the year that these processes should and should result in a favourable outcome and after that as the deadline for the House of People to assign the Council of Ministers, i.e. competent institutions to prepare and sue. This so much earlier, given that the Slovenian ambassador advocated that it would be easier for him to resolve it with a new structure of government, so that the process was already being prepared, given that I was convinced that it would not return to that authority which, in a certain way, was even forgiven by the debt of the Ljubljanska Banka to the savings of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Herzegovina, and that conclusion had to be annulled through the Federation government's reaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2776	I thank Mr. Tokić. The word is Mr. Turjačanin.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2777	Dear fellow delegates, representatives of the Council of Ministers, this menu of information that you have given about resolving the issue of the savings of the Ljubljanska Banka, I would only like to ask you, and perhaps in the context of Mr Tokić's further discussion. The fact that so far the discussions where this was going in the context of resolving the issue of the succession of the former Yugoslavia and that there is clearly a diametric attitude, means a legal principle that is probably being cherished by Bosnia and Herzegovina, I suppose Croatia and Macedonia, a territorial principle that prefers Yugoslavia and Slovenia, I suppose, that the negotiations so far that were not to say a multilateral character in bilateral negotiations with Slovenia and probably will not bring anything else, some additional buying time by Slovenia, given the experience of previous talks in a multilateral character. What is certainly evident is that it saves the Ljubljana and Invest banks meaning from Serbia are precisely the category of population that is now due to its age, perhaps the most vulnerable category, and a significant part of the funds that are in fact... their lifespan are being blocked in one I can say to Slovenia and Yugoslavia's unwise relation to Bosnia and Herzegovina in the situation in question. I also plead as Mr. Tokić at the Council of Ministers that in some real timing there is no consensus in the elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina after the elections, however, reached aside from the bilateral and legal principles of resolving this problem, which is important for the large population in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because I believe that the long-term negotiations will not bring anything new, given that it is now said. And he also would not agree with the contaminant that such a clearer and more precise relationship between Bosnia and Herzegovina against Slovenia in the disputed problem could distort the conditionally said good relations between Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, because the people long ago said if we were brothers, they were not our sisters' bags, so I don't see anything more important happening in relations between us and the Slovenians. That's all I'm saying. 38 And it just means one more piece of information. Do you have about any timing then you would eventually reach out for a legal remedy compared to Slovenia in a disputed problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2778	I'd like to thank the Turjačanin delegate. The word is Ibrahim Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2779	Mr. Chairman, first of all, I would like to say three important provisions regarding the review of this agenda. Firstly, it is very important that we have received information from Mr Ante Domazet about the Council of Ministers' efforts from bilateral to multilateral initiatives to address this problem. Other Problem
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2780	I'd like to hear from my colleague Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2781	Another problem is that at this point, it seems to me that Mr. Domazet's statement when he said that of all the savings in the former Yugoslavia only looks like the Bosanac and the Hercegovac should stay after that old joke stupid and that they should swallow it as a normal thing, because it's a joke worth you know in advance and define their position so that they should wait for 2003 to start some game around them real, etc. I must say that I am convinced that Bosanac and Hercegovac are not people who should do anything but those who live in Belgrade and Ljubljana and who protect the interests of their citizens very well across their country. I would like to say that for the state they have saved by the Ljubljanska Banka and the other banks you mentioned is primarily the responsible state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to use this term that Mr. Novaković most
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2782	Novaković's most suited.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2783	uses and most often. So the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its executive bodies are the most responsible for the situation in relation to the situation in which the Bosanac and Hercegovac came is saving in these two banks of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, it's very short for Mr. Domazet, the secretary of the vault, and he didn't have the opportunity to take on his shoulders all this burden of responsibility or this council of ministers can be a problem that took so long to take on the obligation. But if the interests of the Slovenians from Ljubljana or Maribor from Kranj or Copra were as hurt as the interests of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I don't think it would have waited 6-7 years and I don't think such instruments would have been legally used for the benefit of our country and what use it has been so far. I think they would soon find a way to collect their interests and the interests of their citizens. This is a key question, to turn this optics around and not to talk about how something will be arranged with another, but to see where the position is, because it is also as guaranteed as Mr. Domazet has said what every savingser knows in any bank of the province or the world, the state of these funds and the state is guaranteed that role. In this case, Bosnia and Herzegovina is the country and its authorities have a responsibility and that indeed, before a good part of that population dies, it gets sick, accidentally, and implements the savings obligations. That's another thing you'd like to say. And the third thing I would like to say is it is very good that in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in the Committees on Human Rights, etc. The legal issues are moving these things. You know who knows the structure of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I hope that our representatives in that body, have experienced it and understood it after these few years, is not that to be appreciated, but what the people say is not even to be overrated. There is a simple procedure that must be carried out by the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Council of Ministers and the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which represents in Bosnia and Herzegovina's interstate relations. That's why I'm asking you not to wait for September, not September 5th, not another term. Here we have July, here's a very clear program that you've exposed to doing you. I would ask the Council to bring one special, today to the House of Nations a special conclusion, to ask the Council of Ministers, of course, to say nicely our friends from Herzegovina in the atmosphere of Mr Kučan's interstate meeting with the Presidency and the Vlada. After these bilateral talks and interstate meetings to inform the public, chaired by the Council of Ministers, Mr Mikerević and the competent minister no later than 10 days later that they have an extraordinary Council of Ministers session and that this is not information such as Mr. Minister correctly said only the vaults, but that a session of the extraordinary Council of Ministers is held by the end of this month and says what is the programme they will be working on and how they will come out of this to protect the interests of BiH citizens. And the last thing I want to ask is, in all these processes, whether more politicians are involved from different levels, and less people who are directly affected. I respect that politicians have been saving and probably good, but I would like to know whether the Ljubljana Bank Savings Association and these other banks are directly ill-armed in communication with the Council of Ministers expert team. That's what I'd like to know and if they are, I believe it'll make sense, because they have very good experts as soon as they've invested in such a good bank as the Ljubljanska Banka and the Investiciona, I did well remember the bank. So when they knew what bank they were going to invest in, they didn't know what was going to happen. They have a chance, I hope, and here is a greeting from the savings representatives and the minister is witnessing a strong relationship between these two structures. I hope it will be with success by the end of the month presented to the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Not to us in the House, but to the savings and citizens of BiH for the protection of dignity and would say the interest of BiH citizens, whether they are in the country or the world. So I ask that the conclusion be made to the House of Nations special. I'm going to write it because I know it's a protocol, to make a statement about it, that by the end of the month the Council of Ministers has a special session as extraordinary as when there's around this CIPS, which wouldn't have about 40 direct interests of citizens who have been saving these two banks, would expand to another bank. And that the Council of Ministers, what the vault has done carefully, does and brings in a very clear, very precise program that will be outsourced to the public. That's not why we have to sit down again. Our attitudes are clear. It is our obligation to protect the obligations of citizens, but the Council of Ministers should not have a stretching deadline and there are reasons, it is one effective body for now with six ministers who are able to meet whenever this legislative authority so requests. I think that would be the most rational conclusion, and with the inclusion of I say experts on the side of the savings and associations there. And I want happiness to the political and legal committee in the Council of Europe and all the other processes that are listed here, but I would not want to underline once again, to postpone their matter until the end of 2003, September, October, when different engagements, arrangements, etc. will take place. Now, this is my suggestion, and now I'm going to write a conclusion, so I ask that the House of Peoples be made known to this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2784	I thank Mr Spahić. Mr. Novaković has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2785	I'd just like to point out a few points and point out in this debate because I think they deserve attention. Of course, it does not diminish the importance of foreign exchange savings at the Ljubljanska Banka and Invest Banka Belgrade. First of all, this issue of old foreign savings is an extremely important issue for others, and it would not be fair, and not to mention it, regardless of what this internal debt means for this one to say to the internal old foreign savings we cannot solve and we have no authority, but I also think that this is a very serious issue that must be resolved very quickly at the level of entity governments. Of course, this question here that we have today is, in any case, significant because of the relationship between our neighbouring countries. It means between SRJ and Slovenia. When it comes to the proposed conclusion here, I believe that the conclusion of Mr. Minister is complemented by Mr. Tokić, a conclusion that needs to be supported by this House and I will personally support such a conclusion. So in some period that was said there, a comprehensive information with an operational plan was produced by September 1st. And I also came out to say that I absolutely support all the measures taken to maintain the foreign savings of the Ljubljanska Banka against Slovenia. I mean, I'm an absolute supporter and blockage, that is, demanding not to buy Slovenian goods, because I've actually heard here several times today a finding that we don't spoil good neighbourly relations. Now I keep trying to get to what our good neighbourly relations are, if everything that is our interest does not find support in Slovenia. Is this ours, is our relationship good for you because they won't give us back good-neighbour savings, and we won't ask much, or we won't take action. Are they good because 41 is our trade imbalance as it is and probably not, but certainly the biggest in all neighbouring countries. Or they're good for some other reason. So I don't think that we have any particularly good relations, and of course I think we should have and that everything should be done to make them good, and that means that we should send a clear message here today to the Government of Slovenia that we expect this issue to be resolved to the satisfaction of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to contribute to the creation of good relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2786	I thank Mr. Novaković. Who's next to the word? Mr. Džaferović, please. I ask just one thing before, we have agreed first of all, members of the College, club presidents to conduct a debate based on the report of Minister Domazet and that it is approximately ours, so a position after a debate that should not be long to expect clear views and conclusions of the Council of Ministers against this problem. So now we're not going to a series of conclusions, or even support some protests, etc. I don't think that would be a serious call from this house. I apologize to Mr. Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2787	That's why I actually went out here for a pay phone, and I think that on human torture, so on the torture of foreign savings that justifiably seek their claims shouldn't be collected, nor can it be possible to score any points, even points for this pay phone. And so I urge that we as Parliament do what is up to us and what we can do to help these people and that these people get to the money as soon as possible, in fact. It's two and a half billion KMs. It is not only 250m in the Ljubljanska Banka, it is not only 132m in Belgrade's Invest Bank, but it is two and a half billion in foreign exchange savings on the old foreign currency savings. That's why I don't think it's a good idea, so when I go out here for a pay phone and say that we're going to support the boycott of this or that. Mr. Novaković, if you will be principled, then you should say you will support a boycott of goods from Serbia, because Invest Bank owes Bosnia and Herzegovina 132 million KM. I mean, it's not gonna get us anywhere. We must therefore have a cold head and a reasonable attempt to do what we can to help these people. Tokić came out here for a pay phone and there is no matter what he needs to solve as a representative of the current government, which he did not try to accuse earlier authorities of. What the Government of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina did in July 1993, I now learned from Minister Domazet. Let it be established, brother, but I know that as a representative of the former 42 authorities I actively participated in helping foreign savings. I remember saying that I voted in favour of the law and strongly lobbyed for this privatisation solution to make those 35% of the cash in a small privatisation to be recognised as cash savings. So that's a measure. It is therefore a financial weak state and a great demand for foreign savings. Those things need to be aligned. Therefore, the state must function, but the resources of the people who justly seek these funds must also be settled. That's why I support what Mr. Domazet was talking about. So I support the Council of Ministers to make a real programme, to assess how realistic this programme can be, and if, therefore, an assessment is made at a given time that no longer makes sense to hold talks in the context of a succession of bilateral talks with Slovenia, then go with a lawsuit at an international judicial instance on this matter. So sue the Republic of Slovenia, sue the Ljubljanska Banka and so look for our money. So that's our money, because it's our citizens' money. I therefore support all those proposals that were behind this speaker that the Council of Ministers is making the programme as soon as possible and that the programme comes here to Parliament. We simply have to live with this problem until we solve this problem. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2788	I thank Mr. Džaferović. It seems to me that this one, of course, would not predispose others to participate in the debate. The discussion could have been the conclusion that the Council of Ministers was asked to form a programme as soon as possible, a concrete problem-solving programme that we are talking about today. The word is Mr. Ivo Divković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2789	I'll do it very briefly. I think I agree less with the proposals tabled here regarding the Council of Ministers' activities in the coming period. However, I appreciate that this House and the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole, means both homes should, in a certain way, send one message to the Parliament of Slovenia in this interparliamentary communication regarding our activity, namely the position of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament on foreign savings. It would be one declaration that might also help to clarify our position and to understand in the Parliament of Slovenia the seriousness of I would say this problem and our position on it. You heard the minister. That's the problem with the savings will be solved one way or the other. Either the Ljubljanska Banka gets rid of him, or this country gets rid of him. He'll be paid with savings. So we must really protect and save both this country and this interparliamentary, I would say that communication is very clear. Thank you. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2790	I thank Mr. Divković. Who's next to the word? Mr. Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2791	Dear colleagues in the debate have been told what I feel is necessary for this occasion to be said. It is proposed that what I believe should be proposed and there are enough elements of the Council of Ministers to make an operational plan on how to address this issue effectively. And since I'm reacting to it, I'm only responding for the reason that my discussion is provoked. It is said here that the former government, some former government, has written off the debts of the Ljubljanska Banka and that Mr. Tokić hopes that the government will no longer return. I keep having a handicap for Mr. Tokić firing fires here firecrackers and then leaving, and I don't get a chance to replicate it. That's why I'm able to replicate when there's no man, which isn't mine, and I keep sitting here all day. So, in the text that Mr Kemal Kozarić and Mr Jure Pelivan joked the governor and member of the Governing Board of the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as members of the foreign exchange-saving expert team both delivered to the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers in information on the old foreign savings held in Basel, the following is said in the talks – when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina's relationship with Slovenia, part of the circumstances should be highlighted, and still, it is about the beginning of July. In addition to the multiple efforts of the beginning of July this year, therefore, it is still, despite the multiple efforts of the signatories, this information has not been reached by the government of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the annulment of the unfounded conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina from the 93rd year after which the Ljubljanska Banka DD Sarajevo was created and registered by the status change of the Ljubljana Bank of DD Ljubljana, the main branch of Sarajevo. Therefore, it continues to be stated, since the branch had no legal capacity or concluded any contract that would regulate relevant issues of mutual rights and obligations. The appropriate decision, therefore, is the decision of the government of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina to correct registration at the Court of the Ljubljanska Banka DD Sarajevo, because it is a formal legal disturbance in our further talks. To talk about the decisions of the government of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 93rd year when the government was in siege in Sarajevo that was under siege, when Bosnia and Herzegovina was in a state of war, I think it's untasty. What motives of the Government of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina were they at that time? What are the needs? What reasons? We need to open up a question and talk about it. But to tell the speaker that a government in Bosnia and Herzegovina has written off the debts of the Ljubljanska Banka is harmful both to Bosnia and Herzegovina and to foreign savings, to old foreign savings. I think it's reckless and harmful. 44 So it is not about any write-off, it is about one conclusion that has not even been published in the Official Journal. Of course, that too needs to be considered and seen what the motives are, what the reasons are. But it should also be considered why the government of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, after almost two years of its term of office, only in July, draws the necessary conclusion, following a series of warnings that it is necessary to bring this up and that this is a formal legal assumption that Bosnia and Herzegovina's position in the protection of old foreign savings is strengthened. So that's the right approach. And as for the case, I think this sentence on the return of some of the previous authorities to the scene and the non-refundable one shows the reasons why Tokić is dealing with this issue. I don't think these indisputables should wait for a solution from people who deal with this issue in a way that they remember during a pre-election campaign and act on the issue. I think the issue should be resolved by the competent institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not at the end of the term of office, not by dealing with the needs of daily political cheap winning points, but by a thorough, persistent and expert approach. I think Mr. Domazet's exposure is a good basis, and I think that's the way to go and the fronts to be hit to solve the issue of these malignancies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2792	I thank Mr. Genjac. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, there were a few suggestions, so I'm trying to make this discussion a productive conclusion. I think a conclusion that could reconcile several of these conclusions, although only one has written form, would be the House of Peoples of the Council of Ministers' request that it make up the problem of resolving the old foreign currency savings of BiH citizens in Ljubljanska Banka and inform the House of People as soon as possible. So let's give the shortest possible deadline for the Council of Ministers to form an operational problem that we have spoken and to inform the House of Peoples. I think that would be our contribution. I also agree with what Mr Ibro said that we, as Parliament's House of Parliamentary Assembly, are initiating this problem through our contacts with the Slovenian parliamentarians and that in such a way all the state institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina take part in resolving the problem. Can this sublime conclusion? There was only information here about the Ljubljanska banka, please don't add it nicely. That's not even a part of the agenda. I'm not slowing down to be a special item of the agenda. I don't argue with the special point being Invest Bank, but don't end up adding, because it wasn't a debate. It wasn't even a point, please. Here you go, Spahić. I can read your conclusion and put it to a vote. It's not a problem. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2793	I actually suggested quite precisely. You don't have to read.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2794	Here, please, we'll read and we'll plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2795	First, Mr. Domazet said clearly in his presentation
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2796	Just give me a conclusion, please. The debate is closed
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2797	I will, I will. Of course. My conclusion is next. In view of the fact that this is really on the line of what we were saying - the Council of Ministers is tasked by the end of July to present an emergency session to the work programme to address this savings problem, with the participation of the representatives of the Savings Association. I think it's as clean as tears and there's no misunderstanding. Mr. Domazet was very precise in his presentation.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2798	I'm begging you there will be a conclusion. We'll make a statement right away. Who's to conclude Mr. Ibro Spahić? I beg you, I don't know if you've been informed by the Rules of Procedure we can't allow, we can't take part in the debate, the Council of Ministers and State Authorities can. I'm begging you. We've closed the debate. Please don't. I have a reason why. I don't, of course, have a decision to make. I don't mind. Just so we don't point this debate at someone else, I'm talking about it as responsible people in the House. Please, who is it so that the president of the foreign exchange savings association at the Ljubljanska Banka can contact the House? Who's against it? Who's being held back? - 4 So, Mr. Lizalović, go ahead. It's got to be all business. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2799	Thank you very much. I welcome you all present. I'd like a few sentences to say, you probably see that we haven't reported as much as we've been reporting for the...saving of the Ljubljanska Banka no one would know. I'm telling you now. Secondly, we are the association that appeared to the Council of Europe, not to the states. We called the Government of Slovenia, not the State. They were still trying to keep us from raising tensions, and I'm glad that I can say something in front of this tall house, because I'm telling you 165 thousand citizens of the Ljubljanska Banka foreign savings every day are calling us letters every day. We have all over Bosnia and Herzegovina and RS territory and down in Mostar and Široki Brijeg we have branches and people are damaged and have no one to turn to. This is the first time it's a public debate. They don't talk, they can't go to banks, they can't go to banks. The Ministry of Finance can't turn around because they don't receive them. I was in Banja Luka the other day to talk to the citizens downstairs. Banja Luka doesn't receive the same in banks, they don't receive in ministries. I want you to know that this whole burden has been on us for the last six years. We wrote to the Council of Ministers and prayed for what you voted today with Slovenia, I don't think you did well.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2800	I beg you to argue, do not be angry, you cannot tell the MPs whether they are good or not. Stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2801	If they were, if the Slovenac were doing this, you would see that no one would raise their hand to this conclusion. Secondly, I say we tried, I spoke to the Slovenac while it was that expert team formed by the Council of Ministers 98. Believe me, they never wanted to put any points, let alone write a word. They kept saying wait for a succession. And today, whenever they come, they raise the question of succession, even though it was solved a year ago, the issue of succession and where it is, what about foreign savings. So I'm glad that you've made these conclusions today, and I'm glad that you've discussed this issue, because it's a very important question. But there's one thing I need to tell you. Three times Slovenia's television, it came yesterday and today it will be, three times they come to ask us for documents. I'm telling you now this is a document that went to Ljubljana every year, every day, every month, that was taken just from 84 to 90. 200 million marks. So it's six years from now. And today they're asking, they asked us to paint this, even though we proved it to them that we had documents that they transferred foreign currency savings, because they wore it from the '70s to the '90s. Then nothing changed when she was a subsidiary or when she was a basic bank, because the money went to Ljubljana. Ljubljana 47 gave guarantees and approved loans. I guess a lot of you didn't know that. We had to show them to prove it. Second, when they talked to the expert team, when we picked up this one, let's say we raised a little bit of tension, then they just called our people and said don't talk to anyone – do you want 50%? So please, how can we even talk about 50% when it's taken away, I'm telling you it's not 250 million marks, it's $185 million. So calculate, but it's no interest. Now figure out how much money it is. It was converted in 92 when the dollar was very low compared to the stamps. That's why it's not even 130 million Invest Bank, it's $94 million. It's all interest-free. So, I want to tell you, we don't know a lot of things. There's something going on. It's not that. Slovenia must owe over 500 million to our citizens somewhere. I'm telling you, we're not gonna let any interest be on us. We have another case. Believe me, since I say you can't address a citizen's savings to anyone, we have a lot of citizens, they've lost property, they've lost families, they've got foreign savings in the Ljubljanska Banka. The Soviets have been using it for 11 years. And that citizen can't reach his means. We have citizens in the EU who have become citizens of various countries in Europe. They don't give them foreign savings either. And that's why I wanted to say this a few words. I'm very excited to hear something like this. For six years I've been working, believe me, we have a book we can write from a thousand pages that we wrote to a coma and what we were talking about. We started in 2000 in the beginning of November to the Council of Europe and they came here twice. No one has spoken since, and now it's come again, now what Mr. Domazet said here. It is once again our turn to address the Committee on Human Rights of the Council of Europe. Because we, here, I've already done the text and we'll send it. We'll probably have to write Eždauna a letter to go to bilateral talks. We're running it. It's not the Council of Ministers. I'm sorry Mr. Ante left. Lately, Ante Domazet Mr. and I have been working very well together, the Association and the Council of Ministers. Even with Mr. Tokić lately. We have to cooperate. It's the same mission, same goal. I have one more to show you. There is a letter here sent from Zagreb. Because I guess our TV broadcast. The woman is in debt to the Ljubljana Bank in 91, 8 kuna. She was sued. Now she owes 21,000 kuna. Please, 8 kuna has grown by 11 years ten and a half, 22 thousand is due now and will have to retire from their pensions as they call pensions to pay the debt to the Ljubljana Bank. For them, for Slovenac, so please, Slovenac have invested something in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Is investment a marble? So what kind of investment is it when they make profits in Slovenia and don't leave it here? Secondly, they're visiting banks now, the South Bank's former Union Bank, the Central Profit Bank, that they buy it, and when they tell them you can't buy it, we have a debt and we, then they said -- well, you know, your country will take that debt. He'll go public with his debt. And they won't take the Ljubljanska Banka that has its own infrastructure big. They have big spaces just for 48 of these I don't know, let's call them 250 million. So you can pour out as long as it's a corrupt world and you just don't want to talk to us like this. What you're saying about the boycott, so I'm telling you now that we've softened them, that there wasn't this boycott and these names of ours, I'm telling you, they wouldn't have sat down with us to talk. So I'm glad this is the conclusion. I believe, we will complete the expert team and now do what is right, but surely we must again remind the Council of Europe, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights of the obligations they need to make. I'm sure they'll need it. We've had a lawyer so far. We have to have a lawyer who knows international law, who knows English well, who doesn't go there without it. Believe everything Mr. Jure Pelivan and Kozarić wrote, I was involved, maximum in it. Nothing's worth it to us until we do this. For even the West didn't want it; they lobby so well that they don't speak it at meetings; for they don't need those who have made themselves known to them. Well, they suggested in Basel, too, is satisfied with 50%. Who would be happy with 50%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2802	I thank Mr. Lizalović. The debate is closed. We declare Mr. Ibro Spahić's conclusion. Who's to conclude Mr. Ibro Spahić? That the Council of Ministers schedules the next session by the end of the month and informs them that it is working with the Savings Association. Unanimity. 13 for, against no one, abstentioned no one. Thank you. We've finished the ninth item of the agenda. We're going to the tenth point Ad. Ten. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Central Bank Act (first reading), Proposer of the BiH Presidency, I am opening the debate. Who's calling for a hearing?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2803	The word has been given by the Chairman of the House, the Honorable Mr Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2804	Ladies and gentlemen, since this is the first reading of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Central Bank Act, you know when this is therefore a re-try of the Presidency to adopt this law. You know that the remarks, amendments, suggestions that I made in the last debate are respected on the IMF's proposal, which means that sometimes, as an MP or as a delegate, it is worth standing up for a better legal solution for Bosnia and Herzegovina. 49 Since we have received a new proposal concerning the amendment and addition of the Central Bank Act, and this is the first reading, so I will plead for this law in principle, but I would ask the speaker of the predsjednišve to lead, so until the next reading of the second reading, to look at these remarks which I will, of course, speak about the law today in the first reading. It seemed to me that it made sense, so it seemed to me that it made sense because it was about the amendments and the additions that the amendments and the additions included the position of the first member of the 25th law. In that sense, I think that it should be changed in terms of saying that the initial capital of the Central Bank paid by, therefore, that the initial capital of the Central Bank paid by the entity is recorded as the founding capital of the entity in the Central Bank on the basis of which entities belong to profit rights and a net profit relatively by participation in the capital of the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This amendment essentially confirms what the Central Bank is, because entities have given a founding role just as the founders of the Central Bank in Switzerland cantons, and therefore further, according to the founding role, can be negotiated and managed by the Central Bank's policy, etc. It seems to make sense, so it seems to make sense and that would be a good change and a good move. In addition, if the applicant accepts this suggestion, I consider that, in accordance with Amendment I, that is to say, this proposal 1 on amendments proposed in the position of Article 1 of Article 25 of the existing law in Article 27(1), point (a) behind the words - in the manner of the capital of the Central Bank, add words - in favour of the equity owner relative to their participation in capital. Which also makes sense. Because whoever wants to check how much he invested which entity in the establishment of the Central Bank, but unfortunately the law isn't regulated, which is not good. One day we'll have to get into a situation where it's simply legally or legally defined. And finally, the third principle in Article 1. The central bank law should be defined as the founders of the Central Bank of BiH entities, i.e. institutions that invested funds in the Central Bank's initial capital. So, I accept these amendments and additions to this suggestion that the Proposer thinks until the second reading that it would be good to change and change Article 25.Tav 1. So that would be good and that's my proposal and, in that sense, it will depend, of course, on my definitive position on this law, and we still have time, since the amendment phase is just now in progress. But it would be good to say when it comes to the principles that this principle is meant. Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? There are no debaters further for this law. I'm closing the debate? 50 Who is it to adopt this law in our first reading? So with 11 votes for, no one against, no one abstention, we unanimously passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Central Bank Act in the first reading. Moving to point 11. Ad. 11. BiH Deposit Insurance Act (first reading), Proposer of the Council of Ministers I open the debate? Who's answering for a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2806	The speaker of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, the distinguished Mr Nikola Špirić, appears.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2807	Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Deposit Insurance Act, I, of course, have submitted many amendments to the Constitutional and Legal Commission. That's 10 amendments, of course in the Constitutional and Legal Commission, there was no understanding that they would adopt. I appreciate that this is a very important legal project that is missing Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am prepared to withdraw all 10 amendments and today join the first and second readings and adopt this law, with a view to adopting it in a definite version of the House of Representatives and thus making our contribution to further activity with the view that this is very important for ensuring the savings deposits of citizens, creating confidence in the reform of the banking system in Bosnia and Herzegovina and entities. I beg you, of course, if we have the understanding to join together today's first and second readings. So that's my proposal, and I'm ready to withdraw these amendments from the procedure. Thank you very much and it would be my contribution to vote on the law. Thank you. Who's next to the word? No one's answering? I'm closing the debate. First of all, who is it to adopt the law in the first reading? - Nine. Who's against it? No Niko Uzdržan? One I ask you to plead with me on the proposal to make a statement on the law in the second reading. 51 Who is it to pass this law? Eight, who's against it? Who's being held back? Two abstentions, eight for, I find that the BiH Deposit Insurance Act has been adopted in the final version of the same text as the House of Representatives adopted. We're moving to 12 points of the agenda. Ad. 12. The Law amending the Law on Industrial Property of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), the Proposer of the Council of Ministers, received the law as well as a report from the committee responsible. It's about first reading. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Who is it to adopt this law in the first reading? Ten for who's against it? It's okay with anyone. Are there any abstentions? No thanks. So we passed the law in our first reading. Moving to the 14th point of the Ad agenda. 14. The Law on Gender Equality and Gender Equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) We move to 13 points of the Ad agenda. 13. The Law on Features (First Reading) Proposer of the Council of Ministers Who Answers the Word? Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2809	Dear colleagues, delegates with a view to discussing the principles of this law, I would like to draw attention to two principles that would be good for the legislator to be more interested in trying to make certain adjustments by the second reading. Namely, Articles 25 and 26. The law provides for the principle of taking over, so taking over other previously established legal solutions. In the light of the objective here, I am now subject to some questions, namely that the law on the traits of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina provides for rights to be transferred, the rights acquired, or in other words, that, in practice, this House is being verified by the adoption of this law, both by that law and by those members of the law and by those distinctions. It's a matter of principle and principle. Then there is no question of what all the medals of 52 Bosnia and Herzegovina are, is this what is here in the law or are we practically taking all the medals. Whether it is the medal and the Order of Nemanjić, whether those who have received Nemanjić will, of course, enjoy all rights on that basis or not. etc. I don't want to set up any others. The second principle here is, which is in the article, the principle of which the Presidency is practically put above the law, that is, above this law itself. It is intended for Article 19 that the Bureau may decide that legal consequences have not occurred if a person is punishable for more than a year, or is liable. Beware that this is a principle that we could not and should not accept precisely in view of the importance of these decorations that are thus provided by the law to be given. I think that's the way we'd do it in some way and devastate them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2810	I thank Mr. Novaković. I believe that the legislator will have the understanding of these suggestions regarding the principles of Mr. Novaković's law. Who's next to the word? Mr. Džaferović. Here you go. Is it a debate or a replica? It's not defined by the Rules of Procedure, but here's the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2811	Something like that. I can't, I think it's an appeal, for instance, for who knows which times MPs to respect when they're having discussions about what it says in the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't know how many times I'm gonna have to go out for this pay phone and tell Article 1. Bosnia and Herzegovina's constitution, which says the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina whose official name will now be Bosnia and Herzegovina will continue its legal existence under international law as a state, etc. etc. Mr. Novaković. So I would therefore beg you here in the law of Article 25. It clearly writes what is in accordance with Article 1 of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and let us, when we discuss these things, stop once with the discussions that have the content that you have presented behind this speaker.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2812	I thank Mr. Džaferović. Who's next to the word? Mr. Ibro Spahić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2813	Mr. Chairman, I just want to say that with the first debate and first reading that from the first reading, Bosnia and Herzegovina is in the heart of freedom, peace, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the golden coat of arms with swords, the golden coat of arms with flax, the golden coat of arms with gold and gold and a silver crown, which means that we will have one state in 53 with full dignity of people wearing this medal when they deserve and I absolutely support the principles and principles of this law, and I recommend that we allow another reading in the way the Rules of Procedure foresees it and hope that we will soon adopt this law. Finally, many well-deserved BiH citizens will be able to differ by the good they do for BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2814	I thank Mr Spahić. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who is it to adopt this law of distinction in the first reading? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I find that in our first reading, we unanimously passed the Law of Features. We're going to the 14th point of the agenda. Ad. 14. The Law on Gender Equality and Gender Equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer of the Council of Ministers You received the law as well as a report from the committee responsible. Who's answering for a word? Mr Ibrahim Spahić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2815	Mr. Chairman, I just want to say that this law, too, we had it at the debate on our commission in full, in the interests of the Bosnian Herzegovina society, and I hope that we will be the House that will set the example on October 5th and 6th and that at least what we will vote on today is whether, and that is to be gender equality and gender equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that finally this male home will have the opportunity to be confirmed in a practical way by political parties after the elections and that there will be at least 8 women and 7 men, with regard to equality. And I want to congratulate NGOs as well as people in the College of the House of Peoples who had the understanding and commission to participate in the work of making this law and to support all the good solutions that the coalition of NGOs has made in an extraordinary way as a lobbying that is positive. Since two days ago we were talking about two negative beginnings of the lobby. Finally, women are aphirmic, making lobbies, and for the benefit of men. We will be much more comfortable in the next home, those who are elected here if they have one balance both in genders and equality in the approach of government and in this home. And let the rest do other organs. Thank you very much. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2816	I thank Mr Spahić. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. I suggest we make a statement. Who is it to adopt this law on gender equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading? Who's against it? Who's being held back? There's no one here. So I realize that we unanimously adopted the Law on Gender Equality and Gender Equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. We're moving to the 15th point of the agenda. Ad. 15. A resolution on young people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, legislator Sejfudin Tokić ja propose that this resolution be addressed to the competent commission as it has been so far. So let's accept this so that the resolution can be addressed to the committee responsible and adopted at the next home. Who's that? Unanimity. Thank you. We're going to the 16th point of the agenda. Ad. 16. Declaration by the People's House on the consideration under Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the People of the Law amending the Law on the Transfer of the Regulator and Apparatus of the System of Electricity of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer of Delegation Ivo Divković I open the debate. Is there a need for a proposing to explain that the law is governed by Article 99? The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Here you go, Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2817	Mr. Chairman, I'm just going to remind this house of ours, since we're basically discussing whether we're going to support it going by article 99 yes or no? Yeah. If we were before it seemed to me maybe three months ago, as long as he had passed the law, you remember, that's when we brought him in on an emergency procedure, because there was a need for this law to be passed as a prerequisite for getting a loan from the World Bank for the Power Project 3. This 3rd strength project was an extremely important project before, and these are the means from which a portable 55 network of this country should be able to achieve the country's single transmission system and to enable us to be a transit country to transfer energy across this country in the coming period, because those who know better the energy opportunities in Europe know that, say, the countries of South Europe like Greece and Turkey already have a deficit of energy in the coming period, and we have ambition and that is quite natural and we need to have energy transported through this country in that direction and vice versa. So we supported as the House which is very positive, the law passed, but I had an amendment at the time which because of the way it was decided on the law was not discussed, or we did not accept it. That was the reason I had to restart Japan's initiative to amend this law. If you are looking at the Rules of Procedure to make something go according to article 99, it should be very simple to define it precisely, etc. This is a simple law, very precisely defined, this amendment and the addition of the law, and I suggest that we make a statement, that is to say, to accept that it goes according to Article 99, and in the procedure of the shortest, because we will have the opportunity to discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2818	I thank Mr. Divković. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Which is to be by article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House declare amendments to the Law on Transfer of Regulators, an operator of the Electricity System in Bosnia and Herzegovina? - 12 for who against? No abstentions. I find that we have accepted a unanimous statement from the House of Nations. We're going to the 17th point of the agenda. Ad. 17. Declaration by the People's House on the consideration under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the Peoples of the Law on the Movement and stay of Foreigners and Asylum, Proposer of the Council of Ministers So the Council of Ministers asks the House of Nations for a shortened procedure against this bill. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate, and I suggest we make a statement. Who is it so that this law is declared by a shortened procedure, that is, by Article 99? - 12 for it. No one against, no one abstention. Here you go. Timeout at the request of the chairman of the club. 56 I would ask the presidents of the clubs to meet after this break, perhaps even the presidents of the clubs to meet us. Thank you very much. We've had a break for over an hour. We used that break to get the College of the House of Peoples with club presidents to sit down with the intention of reaching the laws that Bosnia and Herzegovina needs. I must inform you that there is no mood at this time for the laws to be passed, but we have agreed that the College and the delegation clubs are in charge of creating a mood and continue as soon as possible to continue this session with a view to adopting the laws. So at this point, we interrupt this session. Club presidents were assigned to the College to create an atmosphere to adopt laws. Thank you very much. You biti be informed of the continuation of the session. Thank you very much. The seat was cut off at 14.40 p.m. 57 I suggest we proceed with the continuation of the interrupted session of the 22nd session of the House of Peoples, so ladies and gentlemen, respected delegates, honored guests, distinguished representatives of the information funds, continue with the work of the 22nd session of the House of Peoples. I would like to inform you that we have a quorum and that there are 11 delegates, 4 Serb people, 3 in the order of the Croatian and 3 in the order of the Bosniak people, so that we can make full and full decisions below. You know that we interrupted the session for the reasons why we in the College and with club presidents assessed that there was no mood for legal projects that were on the agenda to get the necessary majority and so we interrupted the session and asked the club presidents, members of the College to continue working on the alignment to make progress and adopt the laws in the interest of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I must say that we have had more contacts, more meetings, us from the College together with club presidents from all three nations and that the result of these meetings and compromises is today's session of the 22nd session. We're left with eight points of the agenda. I suggest we go where we left off. So, Ad. 1. The Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina So I am opening, Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of People, therefore, are required under article 100 of the adoption of this law. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. I suggest we plead who is to discuss this law in accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? I find that we unanimously adopted the procedure for declaring this law. 58 We are going to the second part to vote on the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's in favor of this law? - It's unanimous. Thank you. So I agree that we unanimously passed the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're going to the second item of the agenda, that's Ad. 2. Law amending and supplementing the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the customs tariff of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Member of the 100th Proposed Council of Ministers, in accordance with Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on the requirement for the law to be considered in accordance with this Article after the debate. So I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Here you go. Mr. Jerko Ivanković answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2820	Dear Chairman, fellow envoys, distinguished guests. The Law amending and supplementing the Customs Tariff Act was adopted at the House of Representatives and the House of Representatives did not adopt the same law by a shortened procedure, in accordance with their Rules of Procedure, under Article 105, and that law in the House of Representatives goes into regular procedure or possibly a shortened one, if requested by the Council of Ministers. I don't think there should be any need for envoys in the House of Peoples to deny the right to have this very large-scale bill, which has over 500 pages, so that I can consider it. For this reason, I propose that we do not adopt the law to consider Article 100, but possibly according to Article 99 or the regular procedure. I would also suggest that, after the debate, the Commission for Foreign Trade Policy, which is responsible for this law, also hold a brief session and that it is apparent about this law. I suggest a 15-minute break in which this commission would do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2821	I thank Mr Ivanković. Who's next to the word?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2822	Mr. Špirić has his word. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2823	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed delegates, distinguished guests, when it comes to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina with the customs tariff of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is a law that has long been in parliamentary procedure, and I was an MP in the Representative's Council two years ago and then there was a debate on this law that is very important for Bosnia and Herzegovina to join the World Trade Organisation. I think the Council of Ministers, asking for a member of the 100th, was knowingly aware of certain delays in the adoption of this law. It seems to me that there was also an obligation to include in the creation of this law known experts, people dealing with this problem, and it seems to me that this expert phase had to be completed when I would say making this legal project. It is true that the legal project is complex to count several hundred pages, but I think we should get the strength to step up to the House of Peoples to adopt this law today to give a message to the House of Representatives so that Bosnia and Herzegovina has this law. Of course, I had more conversations with Foreign Minister Azra Hadžiahmetović, Miss Azra, and would say Deputy Minister Mr Kragulj. Therefore, their request by the ministry, the Council of Ministers' law towards the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is a member of 100. I think it would be good, after this break, to sit together, so the College with the club presidents and try simply to find a way out to give a boost to the foreign trade ministry, and of course the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina would come to this legal project. It seems to me that it would not be good if after four years of extensive parliamentary debates, including different experts agreeing from the level of the entity, it says here that this agreement exists, if we were to re-enter different political areas, I would say circumvention activities so as not to reach a legal project. I know that Mr. Ivanković did not have that intention, and that is why I support, after this debate, that we should take a break and talk to come to a solution. Thank you very much. I will otherwise make a positive statement about the proposal for this law and respect the procedure of Article 100. Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Mr. Spahić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2825	Mr. Chairman, representatives of the Council of Ministers, fellow delegates, I would just like to say that you would have made it valuable to postpone this session, to extend this 60-session for a certain number of days, one week or more, and that we had the opportunity to look at these remaining few laws per article 100 that we have proposed. And now that the agenda has been formulated which you have naturally confirmed as a continuation and clearly inserted and point 7 of the Law on Public RTS and all the others we have insisted on as delegates, I would like to say that I am convinced that it is the most rational, since I have also consulted people in this area, but within one expert team, that this law by Article 100 should certainly be voted today and not send any message to the international community or the House of Representatives, but to do its part of the job. In fact, under number one, this is one of the main points where state institutions are built and refer to state institutions. Under number two. The home of the people has an explicit obligation to complete this job under Article 100, means to now bring the Council of Ministers into a position as a proposer to return it, either in accordance with Article 99 or in some other regular procedure, in fact, bring nothing in the time ahead, and far more affirmation of this law gives room for intervention through amendments. So those of us who would like in some way to make sure that we are more useful in 99th than 100th, so that we are going slower than we are to the same goal, I must say that they do nothing when it comes to the quality and content of this law and that it is much more rational to commit ourselves, if there are concrete amendments to the law itself to build...by the law of Article 100th and to act immediately as legislators, whoever has any interest and offers amendments that must enter that procedure. Practically, it would be instead of losing, say, one station on a platform to get out, you get a chance to just let everyone get on where they need to go in that accelerated walk. If we return this law to procedure 99 or any other procedure, in a correspondence that will be led between the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples and the Council of Ministers from August to September, it is in fact those advocates who want a better customs law on amendments and tariff supplements that lose the pace. Therefore, both legal experts and those dealing with procedures in Parliament and relations with the Council of Ministers as well as people dealing with this problem with the customs tariff of Bosnia and Herzegovina believe that it would be very useful, and I am convinced that today, in the most effective way, we treat this law as well as others in order to create quality conditions so that the remaining time until the end of this assembly's term, if there are really key issues that will affect the quality of relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and there is a consensus on these changes, this allows. If this procedure were to be extended, if it were to return to the beginning, precisely these proposings, Mr. Jerković and those who have a position like this would lose that necessary pace and they can't get it. For these two months, there is no way to gain momentum. It's like chess. You have on the table something teat is, you decide two things. Or a smart move, or a stupid move. I don't want to qualify for the 61st move back in the process, but the smart move is to adopt the rules of the game as they are and come out with the prepared variant and correct changes and amendments. I would suggest we reconsider not to force a break, some arrangements, but we can since Mr. Jerko Ivanković asked us to, I agree, too, to take a break. But I wanted before the break, because it sits in different clubs and there's no way to talk among delegates, because there's no such kind of coordination other than the portable and indirect through the chair clubs, I wanted to say it publicly for any other reason, but because I can say in this way one position that seems rational to me in relation to this law and to the laws that are before us. And I would pray that Mr. Jerko has, when he goes further after this break, with his suggestions in mind this attitude of mine. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2826	I thank Mr Spahić. I would like to welcome the chairman of the Presidency, Mr Beriz Belkić, and to welcome him on behalf of the House of Peoples. Mr. Munib Jusufović came forward for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2827	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, gentlemen of the delegates, ladies and gentlemen. I went out on this agenda point, although I was thinking whether at the first point or any other point I wanted to say something about breaking up last session of ours. At that time, in our consultations with the Kolegija, we also interrupted the club presidents last session, and it was in a certain way, and by my own concerns whether or not to do so, with a view to getting closer and entering the season of interruptions, or annual holidays. But such a move, that's what I'm saying, has proved very effective. At that time, we have just agreed that in this sense the short break will be used, which is also used and I want to speak affirmatively about the role and the chairmanship of the House of People, that is, the College, and the participation of the club president who took advantage of this short break and here you see today on the agenda are all those laws that involve urgency. And on one agenda and on another agenda, you'd better put it for this second extraordinary session. I would like to say that such work is precisely contributing to what we have and the aim of all of us to adopt the laws that may need to be adopted in the future, regardless of what we are approaching and the end of the mandate, it will be also a matter of continuing the way of reconciliation and all of those issues in question if we evaluate and assess that at some point they are not mature, perhaps to leave a few days to carry out these activities in order to achieve the final result. 62 It means this point of the agenda also in this spirit, although I am reviewing the opinion of my colleague, Jerka Ivanković, who, in the end, may be most concerned with us delegates to others. But perhaps in that spirit, since we're going on here for shorter vacations, I suppose, especially that, and it's not possible that another session will be held until rest time, although as far as I know we're all on vacations of 22, at least that's the kind of solution we have, but here's the contribution today means that this is going to pass in the perceptive working atmosphere by saying and ordering certain results. And I want this agenda point to be possible, even though it wasn't adopted at the House of Representatives, that we do our part of the job, and that in the meantime, we use that period to carry out certain technical measures, so to say, to call them technical corrections, what can be done during this period. It means we do our part of the job. Somehow, it seems to me that if we went on that shorter vacation, we would have gone with a bitter taste that we hadn't done what we did. I may reason that this agenda will go in such a spirit, but I suppose it will. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2828	I thank Mr. Jusufović. Mr Dragutin Rodić answered the word. Is it a replica or is it? So it's Mr. Rodić's guilty of doing business, no problem, you'll get the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2829	Mr. Chairman of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency and Chairman of the House of Peoples and fellow delegates in the House of Peoples. I would like to refer to what delegate Jerko Ivanković said with a few words, but as part of what we have today in the follow-up to this session. We today have seven laws that go according to article 100, meaning an emergency procedure. If we stick strictly to our rules of procedure today we have, with all due respect what Mr. Jerko said, we can only do two things. I don't believe we can vote to do this in a short procedure, under Article 99, but we can and we can plead to the procedure of Article 100. So we either accept this as proposed by this law, or we're going to decide that today we're not even discussing it under Article 100, and then we're going to return it to the regular procedure, which I personally think is not good, and what my predecessors said in this way opens up the possibility that we might act faster and get to what I assume is your intensity when you say this. If we jump out of the general principle of how we're doing today's Article 100, I can tell you out of these seven proposed laws that I would also like to go into some regular procedure, that we can react to them and that we can act in amendment. However, it is obvious that we have brought ourselves into this position in which we are, and these laws are already in the legal order of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Most of them have already been published in the official messenger, and we have the only chance to come forward today about this procedure. And that's why 63 I would suggest with respect, you have the right to pause, but to go with the vote of the law, and perhaps we in the House of Nations may reach a general edifice about other things. It is what Mr. Munib Jusufović said that we should try in our mandate to act in amendment on all these laws that we have adopted, because they have become our laws since today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2830	I thank Mr Rodić. The river has Mr. Ivanković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2831	The Honorable Chairman, chairman of the presidency, fellow envoys, distinguished guests. I just want to explain a little bit. I'm the same as before the adoption of this law. We should have adopted it months ago, because the Council of Ministers committed itself to the conclusion of the House of Representatives, delivered this proposal by the end of the second month for consideration, and today it was the seventh month and was only considered a few days ago. If we adopt procedure 100th, we will have no law again. We will wait for the House of Representatives to implement the full procedure under that law and only then, if there are amendments, will we have to enter into consent and only then will we have the law. So by adopting the 100th procedure, we've won nothing but denied the people's envoys the right to look at this law, to analyze it to get to know it better. I thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2832	I thank Mr Ivanković. Who's next to the word? Niko. I am concluding the debate and giving a break for 10 minutes at the request of the Croatian People's Club of Delegates. Thank you. [[/pause 10 minutes.]] Mr. Spahić, ladies and gentlemen. We took a break of 10 minutes for the commission to express its position even though it is not possible for the commission to give its vision when the law per article 100, but here it is good to hear different sightings. I ask the President of the Commission to inform us of the debate we have just completed at the Commission. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2833	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished guests, fellow delegates. So, after we heard the argument of the essence of the law from the proposing representatives, we would accept, so most of the members of the Commission were to go according to this procedure as proposed, but to propose or suggest to the House of Representatives that they do the same, because I guess the goals for all of us are to get this law as soon as possible, because it is in Bosnia and Herzegovina's interest.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2834	I thank the President-in-Office of the Commission. We're going to a plea. Who is it that the Law amending and supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act with the BiH Customs Tariff is declared by Article 100? Who's against it? One for, one against, are there any abstentions? I do not konstatovati that we have come forward so that we can discuss this legal project in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of Article 100. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Niko one's answering for a hearing. We plead. Who's in favor of this law? Please conclude, we can't suggest another home, we're separated two homes. Who's in? 11 for who's against it? He doesn't mind who's restrained? There are no abstentions unanimity. I'm asking you to count correctly. So we unanimously adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Customs Tariff Act with the BiH Customs Tariff under Article 100. We're moving to the third item of the Ad agenda. 3. Bosnia and Herzegovina's Prosecutor's Office Act, Article 100, proposed by Sejfudin Tokić pursuant to Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations shall decide on the requirement for the law to be considered in accordance with this Article after the debate. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Spahić, please. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2835	Mr. Chairman of the Presidency, chair of the House, Council of Ministers and Delegates, I have here one proposal of the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is of first-rate importance for the completion of all these laws and I only wanted to support not only a member of the 100th, but also to use the opportunity to say that I want to make it very clear about the adoption of a whole set of these laws on the prosecution, then criminal law, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2836	I'm asking you to do the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2837	On the occasion of this agenda, this is all very good, but for Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is also very good that this House of Representatives and the House of Peoples and the Council of Ministers are seriously considering the fact that we are creating through a set of these laws on the prosecution and the judiciary that there is no adequately organised justice in the Council of Ministers, and on the globe of the Earth, there are not so many laws, such institutions of prosecutors and lawyers, and that the Minister of Justice
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2838	I would ask Mr Spahić to stick to the agenda, please. Thank you very much. Who's coming forward for the debate? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate, asking the delegates who is to be considered by the law under Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? - 11 for who's against it? Who's being held back? So we unanimously adopted the procedure under Article 100(2). I'm opening a debate. Who's calling for a hearing? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're pleading to the law. Who's to adopt the law? I am pleased to find that the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been adopted unanimously. 66 We move to the fourth item of the agenda. Ad. 4. The law on registration of legal persons established by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina also requires that the peddler Sejfudin Tokić be declared in accordance with Article 100's procedure. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We plead. Who is in favour of discussing the law under Article 100(2)? Rules of Procedure? Unanimously, then 11, I ask you unanimously to, 11 so for, no one abstention, no one against. We unanimously adopted a plea procedure on this law. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're pleading to the law. Who is it to adopt the Law on the Registration of Legal Persons established by the Bosnia and Herzegovina authorities? 11 for, no one restrained, no one against. So I agree that we unanimously adopted the Law on the Registration of Legal Persons established by the institutions of the Bosnia and Herzegovina authorities. We're moving to the fifth item of the agenda. Ad. 5. Law amending and supplementing the Law on the ID cards of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Article 100. The Rules of Procedure also open a debate. Who's calling for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Who is it to make this law known in accordance with Article 100(2)? 11 for, no one restrained, no one against. I understand we adopted the procedure unanimously. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? No one's answering for a word. I'm closing the debate. We're pleading against the law. Who is it to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the ID cards of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina? 11 for, no one restrained, no one against. I find that the law has been passed unanimously. 67 We move to the sixth item of the agenda. Ad. Six. Law amending and supplementing the Central Record and Data Exchange Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina, also Article 100. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're pleading procedure. Who is it to declare this law by Article 100(2)? Rules of Procedure? 11 for, no one restrained, no one against. I understand we adopted the procedure unanimously. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Niko one's answering. We're pleading to the law. Who is it to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Central Recording and Data Exchange Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina? 11 for, no one restrained, no one against. I find that this law has been passed unanimously. We're moving to the seventh item of the agenda. Ad. Seven. The Law on the Foundations of the Public TV System and the Public TV System of Bosnia and Herzegovina I am opening the debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We declare the procedure under Article 100(2). Who's in favor of this procedure? - 11 So we unanimously adopted the procedure. I'm opening a debate on the law. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We plead. Who's up for the law? - 11 11 for, no one abstention, no one against. I am pleased to find that the Law on the Foundations of the Public TV System and the Public TV System of BiH have been adopted unanimously. Moving to the eighth point of the Ad agenda. 8. The appointment and completion of a delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to inform you that it may be a clumsy continuation or a point of the agenda. I'll introduce you to the attitudes of the College. 68 We at the College agreed therefore the principle of the election of a delegation to the Council of Europe was 2+3, so 2 delegates to the House of Peoples and 3 parliamentarians from the House of Representatives. We agreed at the College to respect this principle and to complete the delegation, so selecting replaceable members, since there is only a September session of this delegation and a new delegation is elected in January. In that sense, we at the College of the House of Nations unanimously concluded that we are completing the delegation by selecting replaceable members, and in this sense we have taken the stand in the College to replace, as permanent members of the delegation are on behalf of the House of the Peoples Mr. Tokić and Mr. Goran Turjačanin to propose to replace Mr. Ivo Živković and this Halid Genjac. That's the attitude of the House of the Peoples. In that sense, we think that it would be good to support today the selection of alternate members, which would inform us of the House of Representatives and thus shorten the debate, would say political stories and the complete delegation itself that could represent us in the Council of Europe at the Session in September of the month. I'm opening a debate on the 8th item of the agenda. I was obliged to give you information regarding the position of the House of People's College. Who's answering for a word? The word is Halid Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2839	Dear President-in-Office, the Honorable President of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, I respect the College's efforts to resolve this issue, but this approach to the College is the way to produce far greater problems than we already have. This story, of course, lasts for a long time, since the new year, somewhere when it became certain that Bosnia and Herzegovina will be admitted to the Council of Europe at the April session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and since then have been warned by representatives of the Council of Europe that the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina will elect its permanent delegation. We had a temporary delegation, it is known to you as guests, visiting and so it took a warning to select a permanent delegation of 5 members and 5 deputies. The responsibility of the head of our delegation who is also a member of the College was to ensure the activities of both colleges and their synchronisation and coordination to do the job. Instead, members of the interim delegation went to the April session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe when it was scheduled for reception, the Council of Ministers left, the BiH Presidency, which is fine, have left many secretaries, numerous translators, numerous drivers, which is wrong, and it is particularly wrong that the permanent delegation of Bosnia and Herzegovina did not leave. Because the permanent delegation 69 did not leave, it threatened to see an incredible incident and unrecorded situation take place, that the continuation of a session of the Parliamentary Assembly at which Bosnia and Herzegovina was admitted to the Council of Europe without a delegation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which would be unacceptable and scandalous. In order to avoid this, since a permanent delegation has not already been elected and has not gone to Strasbourg, two chairmans are on the spot, so Tokić and Mirjanić signed a document stating that this temporary delegation representing Bosnia and Herzegovina at this April session. This is, of course, accepted, because it is also understood because of the recorded situation in which we are brought, not by responsibility, but by whose responsibility and then the mandate of those five members of the delegation has been verified, so the mandate as members of the delegation has been verified, and we understand that the Statute of the Council of Europe implies when a term of office is verified, then he is a member of the delegation throughout the whole session, and the Council of Europe has an annual session in four parts and one who attends one session is a permanent member while the meeting is being held, so that year. Possible changes are only if resignation is submitted, in the event of election. We therefore understand because of the situation in which we were brought, we understand that these five certified members are now members of the delegation. We also understand that they have appointed themselves. Mirjanić later fenced himself and stated it was only a temporary appointment. He probably didn't know the Statute of the Council of Europe that implies this when one is appointed, it remains for a whole year. As a result, these five members who were temporary members are now certified by the signing of Sejfudin Tokić. So that's the part of the story by April. We have problemed this issue several times because the delegation is not complete first, the second is not properly appointed and the third does not reflect the political structure of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the elemental condition and the elemental standard of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the requirement that the delegation of a particular state must reflect the political structure of the Parliamentary Assembly. To represent both the opposition and the position, to represent both the male and female structures of Parliament and to represent political parties. Since this delegation did not have a single member in its composition, let's say that it is 25% of the members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, it is natural that both the Council of Europe resented the structure and that they have made an explicit request that there must be MPs in the delegation, perhaps, the party that received the largest number of voters in the previous elections at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the SDA and some other issues in the structure of representing political parties. Since this is the case, we held a press conference somewhere in June and we asked the question in a way that we asked the Colleges of both homes to coordinate, to establish a formula as requested by the Rules of Procedure, and new delegations and respecting the fact that five members have already been verified and that these members are within that structure of 10 total members, so 5 members and 5 deputies. Of course, at the press conference, we clearly located 70 people who are responsible for this and who is the culprit, who is actually interfering with the arrangements of the College to settle this issue properly. After our press conference, the press conference of a group of MPs from both the House of People and the House of Representatives, an unheardly worded scandalous thing happened that a group of employees at the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina from the Public Department had come forward with a statement and said no, no, the MPs were not correct about what they were saying at the press conference. It is exactly what we are saying, so they said, among other things, that at the 25th session of 23 May this year, the Parliamentary Assembly held a debate. It has been concluded that the colleges of assembly homes agree on the criteria of full membership of the delegation. So the appointment process for the deputy members is not raised or stopped, but is exactly the opposite in progress and will try to end until the June session of the Council of Europe. This is the position of the staff of the Department of Public Affairs that they made on the basis of our claims. So I'm going to show that it's a series of false things. Scandalous is the first thing about a series of untruths, it is scandalous that employees at the Secretariat are publicly polarising with MPs, using a distorted and completely wrongly interpreted conclusion of the House of Representatives. So the House of Representatives did have a session on 23 May, the 25th session and did not conclude that the Department of Public Affairs states that it would be filled in to the deputies, but the conclusion from the minutes of the House of Representatives session I read – After the discussion it was found that Parliament has an obligation to elect a new delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of 5 members and 5 alternate members, which does not mean that the members so far cannot be chosen, and that the delegation should be elected within a month. So the staff of the Secretariat of the Department of Public Affairs gave themselves the right to completely distort the conclusion of a deliberately misread public controversy with the MPs. That's one thing. They further stated that the activities were ongoing and that they would end within a month. It's been a month. The June session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe was held without a complete delegation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and without a confirmed delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. When we asked them what they were doing, why they were doing it, we received a written reply that they wanted to know the truth and they wanted to present the facts to the public. So they present the facts that are antiques by claiming they want to know the public about the truth. Of course, some principles and some procedures and some approaches can be of course in the House of Peoples, I understand both the relations of political structures and the Alliance and the preservation of some relations and the appearance that if some delegate claims something, so if it is from the Alliance, in any case it should take care of the Alijansa, if some delegate is not from the Alliance should ignore it regardless of whether it is in accordance with some procedure or not. And that's okay, maybe it can go through the current political relations in the House of Peoples. But it can't be in the Council of Europe, it can't be in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, because they resent us for not being properly appointed parliamentary delegation and not reflecting the political structure. On June 71, this year, on the request of the chairman of Mr. Mariofil Ljubić's House of Representatives, so on behalf of the entire House of Representatives, which numbers 42 delegates and which has reached its conclusion and on behalf of that house, Mr. Ljubić sent an inquiry to the Council of Europe, deeming it a temporary appointment to appoint a new delegation to seek clarifications. So we have conclusions on one side of the House of Representatives and we have on the other side the position of the Department of Public Affairs and of a man who, in all ways, interferes with finally solving this issue. Mr Ljubić's Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, Mr Bruno Haver, therefore, finds out that 5 temporary members are not responsible for the circumstances, but we, and it is known exactly who from Bosnia and Herzegovina is certified and they are members and they will remain members all year round and that is fine. However, in the follow-up, Bruno Haler says you still have to complete the delegation with five other members. A full delegation of Bosnia and Herzegovina should therefore be composed of 5 already appointed members whose credentials have been ratified as well as five new members who will appoint your parliament. In addition to this composition, the ten-member delegation will maintain the political composition of both of your parliament's homes. It will depend on you, you will decide to propose which of these 10 members will be a member, so who will be the deputy. We've been saying this all year, gentlemen, we've been holding press conferences all year, warning, please, all year long. After all this, the Department of Public Affairs for us, the College, the chairman of the delegations, answers us, no, no, no, we're members, and you just pick the deputies. Should the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe have written what is what and what is 2+2? Did we need that the moment we were admitted to the Council of Europe? Shouldn't four months after the entry into the Council of Europe have yet been agreed by the College on a formula to be represented by a delegation of Bosnia and Herzegovina that five members will be employed as 5 deputies, which parties from which home. Is that what we need, gentlemen? We don't need that, gentlemen. It's no use to Bosnia and Herzegovina at all, but it's not possible to solve it because one man, one member,
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2840	I would ask you to stick to the agenda, I've let you conclude the discussion, but please take care of our business opportunities for as long as we can talk. I didn't want to interrupt for a reason so I wouldn't understand if I didn't care to publicly say what anyone thought. But here's what I'd ask Genjac Gentleman to do if we all took care of the length of the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2841	I thank you because time is particularly important to us and since we haven't even agreed on the formula of the delegation for four months, and it's important for us to have five minutes of discussion, I will really bring the discussion in. So, Mr Bruno Haler had to write to the Parliamentary Assembly what was what and what had to be done. I don't think it should have been allowed, and after this, gentlemen isn't exactly 72 possible the way the College planned to do it. It is not possible to appoint another 5 deputies among whom one MP from the SDA will be. That's not possible, gentlemen. In particular, it is not possible for the College to propose members of the delegation. Political parties, as political entities that have their own representatives, need their rights, their positions and their places in the delegation to propose their members in any case. Based on 25% of the seats in both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so the SDA has, 25% belong to it among permanent members. It's not some deputy. The SDA and any other party that has an adequate number of members in this House should be able to be adequately represented in the delegation. Therefore, the only thing that is possible is the only one responsible approach, because if we were to appoint this delegation today, at the House of Representatives they have the conclusion that four permanent members are from the House of Representatives, one from the home of the people. It's 3:2. How do you solve that? And we suggest we just confirm here five of these, stay like this and pick out some other deputies. It's impossible to solve it that way. The only correct approach, the only responsible approach, so that the September session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe will pass without a delegation from Bosnia and Herzegovina, is to reach a conclusion that we call on both colleges to agree as soon as possible the formula of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly in the Council of Europe, respecting the verification of the 5 existing members who will decide whether to be members or deputies and to respect the standards of the Council of Europe, i.e. the strict obligation of representation of the political structure of the Parliamentary Assembly. So that would be the conclusion that it could result in some useful business of calling on the college to agree on this approach as soon as possible to conclude at some August session that is planned. I will not specifically seek the responsibility of these young people from the Department of Public Affairs who performed this way. I don't want it because they're manipulated, those who obstruct this didn't have the courage to step forward, but they pushed those young people. But I hope that these young people will learn from this and that in their work that they are doing in this congregation, which is very important, they will have in mind what is what. What are MPs, what is dom, what is public relations, what is the Department of Public Relations, what is service and what are the principles of behaviour in a democratic civilised world. So I suggest that they call on the college to finally bring the formula into line with European standards and principles and that this job be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2842	I thank Mr. Genjac. Who's next to the word? Mr. Goran the Turjačanin.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2843	73 The Honorable Chairman, fellow delegates, Mr. Chairman of the BiH Presidency, I do not have the need to settle, this is only to try as a member of the delegation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to look only a little bit at past events and to perhaps plead to this home in order to be very desirable, if this House, or the entire Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, had the honour to be admitted to the permanent composition of the Council of Europe in this meeting, I think that we should also do this story in a dignified way and that for the September session, it means the fact that the final session, which this parliamentary assembly with its delegates, will be attended by a complex delegation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Council of Europe. Due to the accuracy of the information, given that there is quite often... a certain number of misinformation, but probably most MPs here, pardoned delegates are aware that the current costs in terms of Bosnia and Herzegovina's guests as at the Council of Europe at the moment all the travel expenses of delegations have passed from the cost to the cost of not telling the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe at the cost of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This was as information for other members of the delegates and I assume that the appointment of a set of whole delegations will not lead the way of 10 people and pretend to be excursions to what is often, and especially Mr. Genjac pleaded at these sessions of the House of Peoples. What I want to say for the sake of the credibility of the information is that at a preliminary session, when we were still in the capacity of a visiting member, I plead with the delegation of Bosnia and Herzegovina that the addition of members of the delegation would reflect the composition of Parliament and was said among other things, I only want to apostrophe of only two parties, it is mandatory that, in addition to the delegation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the SDA and HDZ should be present. That's what I need for the credibility of the information to pass on. Here I am insisting on the College of the Two Members of the College of Chairmans and Vice-Presidents, however, that it insists on the principle that the principle of 3:2 relations between the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples be maintained. What I'm saying is that the delegation of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Council of Europe had its own verification at this home. In this capacity she was a delegation as a visiting, visiting delegation, but she had a verification as a delegate in front of this house here, i.e. her two members, Mr. Tokić and I were verified in this house as delegates as guests of the delegation. We have not been verified here as visiting delegates, but as delegates in a parliamentary delegation that has the property of a guest. I don't think there'd be any possible replacement of thesis. I am very sorry to see that Mr. Genjac as a Parliamentarian has in front of him a letter from Mr. Haler about the interpretation, and that as a member of the delegation of this delegation now means, you called her a permanent member, or a member, or a substitute, etc. I don't have letters like this, which I'm very sorry about, which means I didn't get a letter like this on my hands. I see you've got it, Mr. Genjac. There's only that much. Thank you. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2844	I thank Mr. Turjačanin. Is anyone else picking up? Mr. Spahić. I would ask you, please, I would ask you to lead the debate in a way that we can come to a solution. If the debates are out of the Rules of Procedure, if they go to the debates we heard four months ago, I will put the motion to the plea. So we ask you to understand that we are on an important mission to complete the delegation, not to talk about why it was not completed, but to complete it. That's the purpose of this agenda point. Excuse me, sir. Here you go, Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2845	Mr. Špirić picked up the phone. Now I'd like to say that it's the word that's already given. So, under number one, I'd like to say that there's a fully explained dialogue on this, and I don't see any panic or anyone has said anything and read something that's unknown and that's not justified. I don't see any anxiety at all. You should have as chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2846	I'm asking you to stick to the exact agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2847	Yes, but the problem is there.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2848	Can I ask you to stick to the agenda or I'll get you off the phone?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2849	I'm sticking to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2850	You have no reason to provoke anyone, neither do I.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2851	You're giving a lecture before you even gave me your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2852	Stick to the agenda, I'll take a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2853	It's good. It's quite right.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2854	75 I think your tirad is enough in this House, I'm watching as long as it takes.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2855	Yeah, good, good.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2856	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2857	So under number one, it's not appropriate to give instructions to delegates about how they speak and what they say.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2858	When you're sitting in my seat, you'll be giving instructions. Here you go. Stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2859	It's not a manual. Well, since that's not an indication, I'd just like to say that it's perfectly logical that we heard the attitude that's ten times repeated in public and hard to get to the ears even when there's a narrow circle of 15 people, because simple arguments don't want to be appreciated and that's one model that I really think is sad. On the other hand, I would like to say that I benevolently gave Mr. Tokić a place where we supported him on behalf of the Bošnjak delegates Club, convinced that it was really one position in which we needed to build one approach that was correct from the point of view of relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina and from the point of view of the whole and some structure that produced such relations here as they were in this house and in Parliament at all. But if it's about choosing a delegation that makes up the corresponding number 5+5 and if it's about now that we're having a debate for the first time, because that was one position, Mr. Turjačanin is absolutely right, one position of things behind us. We don't have to go back to that. Today, when we establish our position, it is still a whole new policy, we are members of the Council of Europe, and in this parliamentary assembly we should be presented in full capacity and it is a very precise statement by Mr Turjačanina and very correct. There is nothing new there, it is the standard of an international institution that binds to Parliament. It is not about the relations of forces in Parliament, but about parliamentary structure. The relations of forces are one and may be the product of a temporary state, but when it comes to Parliament, the structure of that parliament must be respected. And so it applies to many other parliamentary structures where we are present, not just in the Council of Europe. For example. NATO Parliamentary Assembly of the Pact or OSCE, etc. Therefore, nothing here has been introduced within this relationship between the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Europe and everywhere this international standard to express the will of citizens. It is so in the Interparliamentary Union, there 11 MPs we have the right to always send to every 76 sessions and must be from completely different parties and are the same principles. It is so in parliamentary life and international multilateral associations. And in that sense, I would like to say, therefore, Mr Turjačanin's statement, which was actively involved in the process as well as other colleagues and colleagues, quite easily and correctly. So this is one approach that is only possible in such a way as to vote on it, that it cannot accept any position of the House of Nations today, because it must first determine this structure 3:2 which, otherwise, would be 8:2 for the House of Representatives in relation to the House of Peoples. This is not equal to these two homes. Because both the deputies and the members and the whole delegation would be 8:2, 4:1 means 8:2 in fact. So this is how it is. My view is that two colleges should sit down, peacefully, do the job, propose a structure, and at the next session really without any bumps and hard explanations and hard words to finish this job. There is no reason not to immediately enter into the conclusion that you as two colleagues discuss this, suggest a structure in collaboration with hats in the House of Peoples and in collaboration with MPs' clubs in the House of Representatives. It's a normal business procedure. Because colleges are just the result of the strengths we've created in one home and another. So, Mr. Mariofil will probably call the presidents of the MPs' clubs and consult. I'm not gonna say I like this one, I don't like that one, I suggested this one or that one. Or let's say I made a decision that Mariofil Ljubić or Špirić Nikola would propose on behalf of two colleagues. So the structure is a correct proposal and secondly it is correct to include representatives of MP clubs and representatives of the presidents of the clubs of the House of Peoples. There are three men here. And with the Kolegija, they sit down and clear this thing up and there's a dozen parties, they sit down as many clubs and they finish the job. Don't mystify it, no one sets up drama, no one chasing that place so it won't be misunderstood. Please finish this in two colleges and respect that two colleges give a delegation to the BiH Parliament, not to give a delegation to a separate House of People, but a separate House of Representatives. I fully understand solidarity as it exists in a body that develops a natural political, working and friendly atmosphere in which it tries to realize something in accordance with some principles that can be passed through the Rules of Procedure. But it's all very nice to me, and I suggest that it moves from this likable to a practical one to make a statement about the proposal that we have now received, a very correct proposal from Mr Genjac and Mr Turjačanin. It's very clear. It can't be decided today. Please agree, come out with the proposals at the next session. You cannot impose one procedure in which you will be the sole interpreters of the decision. The conclusion is proposed, one and the other delegates spoke very correctly, and I don't think there's any problem with you setting it up for the next August session, or September in early September. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe will not be upset if you do so today, and if you do so in September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2860	I thank Mr Spahić. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Genjac. Here you go. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2861	Just a little bit of a certain quote from Mr. Turjačanin that we understand each other. For a year and a half since I have been in this house, I have been warning of the costs of the Parliamentary Assembly and of the individual travel MPs. I will continue this until the end of this term, and in no way will I contribute to increasing these costs. Despite my warning, however, a constant warning, some MPs have already personally spent 50,000 marks on their travels, and besides being paid to travel to the Council of Europe, in addition to my warning, the costs foreseen for travel
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2862	I beg you, the agenda point is the appointment and completion of the delegation, not the cost. Stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2863	So, since all travel resources have been spent, we will not have a chance in September to travel, and I do not plead to complete a ten-member delegation to all travel. I declare that, in accordance with the standards of the Council of Europe, members and deputies are elected and that a delegation travels as much as possible to present the political structure of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So that's what this is about. And next thing you know, we're not on the agenda to complete the delegation. We on the agenda have a point called – Appointing and completing the delegation. It is therefore necessary to appoint and complete. In order to name a delegation, it must be known how much from which home it must be known from which party. In order to know that, two colleges have to sit down and make a deal. And I therefore ask that it be a conclusion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I recommend that the College sit down and give this formula as soon as possible before the institution, respecting the structure and standards of the Council of Europe, but to do so within a month to be adequately presented, at least in September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2864	Thank you. The word Mr. Turjačanin. It's a replica. I'm just asking you to lead the debate towards its goal. After Mr. Turjačanin, Mr. Džaferović has not been reported for discussion. I hope we can lock her up. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2865	I wouldn't like my fellow delegates to get my words out of context. When this home elected its representatives in the delegation of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Council of Europe, he did not choose guests, but chose delegates, and the delegation had the property of guests. Just for clarification. I don't know if there were any elections in the meantime, I know they weren't. Is in the meantime who got sick or died, as far as I know. And I don't know what that really changes in the name and last name that this house gave us at one of its first sessions, and the delegation had the property of a guest, not our guests in the delegation. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2866	Thank you. The word has Mr. Džaferović and no more reports. We'll close the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2867	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I really think that the debate on this issue should be brought to an end because things are completely clear and completely familiar. I think there's only one misunderstanding here, actually someone's trying to present it as a misunderstanding, I don't know why. Either because this thing does not know, or for some other reason, but the fact is that this parliament had an obligation after Bosnia and Herzegovina was admitted to full membership of the Council of Europe to appoint a delegation. Until then, our delegation was a delegation of the state which has the status of guests, or observers, and after the accession of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Council of Europe, delegations had to be elected. Of course, we haven't done it for famous reasons until today, it's a shame for this Parliament. I think we have a chance to at least save Bosnia and Herzegovina's face in the Council of Europe if we act as we are suggested by responsible persons from the Council of Europe. These people understand what the problem is. Not wanting to repeat what Dr. Genjac was talking about, but here I'm just going to say that Mr. Haler wrote a letter in this House and there's a sentence in that letter that says-- it's going to be up to you, it's going to be up to you to suggest which of these ten members are going to be representatives, and who's going to be the replacement. This means that you are authorized to change the function of 5 already appointed members, to become replacements instead of representatives, but not to exclude them from the delegation unless they resign. So people understand what the problem is. So it's up to us here in Parliament. We have five people who are so here's the chosen one. Five more people should be selected and one step further taken by the College and therefore I cannot accept the College's proposal. It's important to say which of these people are going to be a member and who is going to be a deputy. That's why I, Mr. Chairman, cannot accept such a proposal from the College as you did at the outset. 79 I really think that the right solution is to sit down two colleges, to agree on principles and then to make out of 10 people who will be in the delegation say who will be a member and who will be a member. You should also know immediately that the SDA as the most legitimate in the past party elections in this House with the largest number of votes will not agree to its representative as a member of the Council of Europe. We consider, in light of the principle of election results that is properly incorporated into the Rules of Procedure of this House and which applies in the procedures of all democratic countries, so we believe that we belong to a member in that delegation, and not a member of the deputy. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2868	I thank Mr. Džaferović. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who is to support the position of the Kolegijum to, therefore, remain the principle of 3+2, so the principle we had, and to be called Halid Genjac and Ivo Živković as replacement members. So that's the attitude of the College. Who's in? Please, who's in. We'll also go to your motion for a vote. It can't be different, it can't be said. Who is it, so we vote for the College's position, please. Who's in? Please make a nice statement. All proposals will go to the vote. I beg you, don't, everyone who has a proposal will go to the vote. Who's up for college? I'm asking you to make a statement. - Six for who's against it? - 4 Who Is Restraint? Five against, six for, five against, the College's proposal has been accepted and that's not what we can do. So you put an ad act other proposals.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2869	Entirely now, the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2870	No need, this isn't the law. Where does it say? Well, he's got most of it. This isn't the law, gentlemen. Read the entity's majority. Please have a nice one, we're putting Mr. Genjac's proposal on a plea. We've finished the vote, so here's the business intervention. So we've completed the voting procedure. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2871	So it is evident that despite the violent attempt to travel across Europe, I will not.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2872	Great.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2873	That's one thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2874	That's another thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2875	It's another thing. The second thing, unfortunately, and the Rules of Procedure do not seem to allow it, because the Rules of Procedure say, please, the decisions of the House are made by most of the delegations present. This majority must contain 1/3 of the delegates from each entity for a decision. Every decision of the House is made that way. Please read the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2876	Thank you. Please. We've closed the debate. I thank Mr. Genjac. Have a seat, please. We've concluded, please don't, you'll all get a chance to talk. So we've concluded the vote. We can stay for half an hour now. We can't change the relationship in the vote. Here you go. Mr. Niko Sušac. There's no problem. What? I don't see any reason to be nervous. Well, if you do. The Rules of Procedure interprets the College, you know how business goes. Here you go. I'm just asking for a little patience. This is a serious thing to be unserious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2877	Mr. Genjac, who has a discussion which is a promotional purpose and a qualification of some people, possibly, are not names listed, I disagree. But with this discussion that concerns the way you choose, I agree. Is it true by what article did you members of the College appoint people? Give me that article in the Rules of Procedure. We are
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2878	We've proposed people, and Dom appoints them.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2879	Yes, you suggested them, and by what article. 81
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2880	So the task is for both colleagues to, so ask of over two colleges to agree
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2881	Please, Mr. Genjac is 100% right that you should agree to the formula.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2882	Well, she's in sync.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2883	The formula is not in sync. What's the formula, let's say here.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2884	Three plus two.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2885	No, not the 3+2 party composition.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2886	So the composition confirms the Dom did we say
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2887	Iretati telling you, Mr. Špirić, you're wrong because why you're wrong. In the House of Representatives there is only one member of the NHI and one here. They're both in the Council of Europe. You're an economist, you should know some formulas. So the formulas aren't good. Therefore, Mr. Genjac is right that you in the College should determine the formulas from which the parties
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2888	Looks like there's a party fight here, not a national fight. It is, and the debate showed regrettably that the SDA thinks it belongs to her, that the NHI also thinks it belongs to him. The majority in Parliament make a decision. I'm just asking you to close the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2889	I have no reason for us to have a dialogue here. And I really think that in the formula you need to determine proportionally that you can't suddenly, that anymore, at least two colleges have to meet twice, and further as far as this vote is concerned, they don't have an entity majority. In the 82nd Federation there's only one, from the Federation for, therefore, I apologize two, but it's six against it. So call the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2890	Thank you, please. Thank you. The Rules of Procedure interprets the College. We don't have a third member of the College that we could. We'll let you know about the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. The Rules of Procedure of the College interprets it naturally. Well, you think it's clear from the SDA, it's all clear, but it doesn't seem to you. What I can do. The SDA would like to say it has 51%, and no regrets. You can see you don't have 51%. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2891	Mr. Chairman of the SDA does not ask in this House, when you have already mentioned the SDA, I have been behind a pay phone here, asking for nothing that does not belong to it and is asking for it for democracy and for respect of the principles of election results applied in all democratic countries. And you, as chairman, should not object and comment in that direction. I went out here to do a business intervention and ask you to honor yourself until the end of the Rules of Procedure of this House when the vote on this agenda is at stake. Because our Rules of Procedure in Rule 59 says that decisions in the House are made by the majority of the votes of the envoys present. I'm reading a text that reads and votes. The envoys will make the most of their efforts to include at least 1/3 of the envoys from the territory of each entity, unless otherwise provided for by the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and this Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure therefore, when it comes to voting, does not make a difference whether it is a law or a decision by Wednesday. Of course, the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina provides for an exception when amendments to the Constitution are at issue, and this Rules of Procedure of Article 145 speaks about the election of a delegation, there is no different way of stating from this general principle and the general way of saying it, because Article 145, which only says that the College will seek to find a proportionate formula that paints the overall composition of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, because of this Rules of Procedure, whether and because of our desire to act in accordance with the procedure we adopted, I would like you to supplement your initial vote and ask the delegates by entities who is in favour, or who is against this proposal, which is the total majority in the total parliament. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2892	83 I thank Mr. Džaferović. The word is given by Mr. Chairman Ilija Šimić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2893	Dear colleagues, I told my colleague Špirić here I'll say it in public. I ask him to conclude this session and declare for the third time in this House that our Rules of Procedure is not precise enough in many of its provisions and in those provisions, I am sorry that he is not precise, the College will interpret the Rules of Procedure. So I ask Špirić to close this session. The college will interpret this decision and report it to you at the next session. That's my suggestion, and my second observation is that the constitutional position of the House of Nations, looking at political, ethical, whatever you want, does not allow too much or almost no party competition, or even exposure. We are the home of the people, therefore. This belongs to another home and another form of political struggle. I must say that this one harmless fact for one session in the Council of Europe has been very irrationally spent an hour and we are very irrationally sowing political disagreements among ourselves. So my proposal is clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2894	I thank the chairman. Since, please, I'd like to ask you to close the session. Here, here's Munib Jusufović. I'm asking you to bring the end. You'll get an interpretation of the College. Please, I'm asking this leading Mr. Šimić to stay. We'll close the session. Watch out, adopt 7-8 essential laws. I beg you, so please, this is important for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're making a whole different impression. In seven laws, we spend 45 minutes, spend an hour on interparty games. So please don't put me in a situation where at the end of the session it's interrupted, and we don't have any points behind it. I'm sorry. Here you go, Mr. Jusufović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2895	Okay. I'll just pick up where you left off, in just one other tone. I didn't mean to get involved in this debate before or now, but I feel a real need to say something in the role of club president and delegates, president of the Bosniak Club. 84 I don't understand here that it's about any party bickering, it's about fighting between principle and non-discipline. This time that I didn't hear so clearly, because I didn't deal with this, I didn't have any aspirations to be a member of a delegation or a representative or a deputy, but when I heard today an explanation from a representative from the Council of Europe who is very precisely clear, the rules of the game are clear, then my view is clear to the end that it is still working, don't get me wrong, I don't know for what reasons about an unprincipled one relationship. And just for those reasons that we've done our job today, adopted very important laws, it's not clear to me why we're throwing a shadow into such good work. We could've gotten out of this with great principle, without any distractions. But now I get the impression, now I have to be honest that Mr. Genjac has been right all along, how many times he's been right, just there's no answer here why he's been right all along. And the second question is, now we can't change business, you're going to interpret how you're going to interpret it, although we're all convinced that you're wrong now. But in the end, it's what it is. However, a second question arises, if Mr. Genjac, who is proposed here simply says no – my people, that's farce. Do you want to rape a man in business because we've been misbehaved to say that a man will be, and he says I won't. If I were him, I'd have to say, this time, you'd have done the same for this kind of work.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2896	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Sir. I'm begging you, no more, if it's a replica, a false allegation, to bring it to an end. Please nice Mr. Niko Sušac, so Mr. Genjac. Please stick to the Rules of Procedure and bring this point to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2897	I'm just asking a question, if you're going to close the session now, and the College finds you were wrong that you should have continued.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2898	We'll report home.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2899	What happens then? So they'll be re-elected.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2900	I beg you, you will receive the interpretation of the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2901	85 Mr. Špirić, I ask a clear question. If the College finds that there is no entity majority, whether the delegation is elected.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2902	It's not.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2903	Then don't close the session. Say we'll hang up
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2904	We won't interrupt the session. You'll get an interpretation. Why interrupt? I'm begging you, who else has it. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Genjac. Please, we pleaded. If there are others who think otherwise, everything is clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2905	I feel the duty and need to just say it briefly to my colleague Šimić. I am so glad that today we adopted a large number of laws for which I
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2906	Please stick to the agenda, Mr. Genjac. The exact agenda wasn't passed, that's what we're done with.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2907	Mr. Špirić only in the context of a sentence he said, it's connected. So I look forward to these laws that I've already voted for several times, and it's good that this point ends in a way that disrupts that picture. However, the House of Peoples does not know the category of parties, but it knows the category of homes of the clubs of the people. Well, people's clubs should sit down and talk about candidates. He can't really propose to the College. That's one thing. And the other thing is, it's a matter of one session for someone in September, for me, gentlemen, it's a matter of principle and two years of session where the delegation wasn't represented properly. That's the problem. One session is not a problem. The problem is that for two years, the parliamentary delegation of Bosnia and Herzegovina has not been properly presented and I try for principled reasons, I say, I do not accept the candidacy, I am not a candidate, I will not be a candidate, but for principled reasons to ensure a European standard in our presentation. That's what I insist on, so let's have a session. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-18-0.u2908	I thank Mr. Genjac. There are no more applications for discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude that we have had a very successful session today. I don't think the last act has disrupted that relationship. I'm closing the 22nd session of the House of Peoples. I suggest a break of 10 minutes to start with a regular session that has only two points of the agenda, so maybe a shorter break of 5 minutes just so that the technique can track us. Thank you very much. Break five minutes.
