ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6568	Gentlemen, I am opening the 3rd session of the House of Representatives of the Parliament of the Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to the MPs of this house at today's session, the chairman and members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina's Presidency who are absent and are present in New York as you know it, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, there are some members of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the EU, representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Observer mission, representatives of the Embassy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who expressed interest in monitoring the work of the UN Parliamentary Assembly and representatives of the UN Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina. With the draft agenda at the session, representatives of the International Monetary Fund, the Office of the resident representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina and representatives of the Central Bank in Bosnia and Herzegovina were invited. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests of our session, as well as distinguished media representatives. I agree that today's session is attended by 41 MPs. One MP, Mr. Vinko Zorić, announced his partial absence from this session. He is actually on his way to Sarajevo, so this home has a quorum for full-time work and decision-making. You gentlemen are MPs familiar with the circumstances in which this House session was called, with notice of a change in the date of the meeting from 12 December to 11 December. We sent you a memo from the International Monetary Fund that we received yesterday and why we responded immediately and informed you that it is necessary for the session to take place today. That's why I don't think there's a particular reason for that. You also, as our guests, received a draft agenda for this session. Before we move on to the debate on the agenda proposal, allow me to inform you that up until now 8 MP clubs have been formed in the House of Representatives as follows: 2 1. A club of SDAs that counts ten MPs. The club chairman is Mrs. Seada Palavrić, and the vice-president is Mr. Elmir Jahić; 2. The Party for BiH club, which counts six MPs. The club chairman is Mr. Beriz Belkić, and the vice-president is Mr. Izet Žigić; 3. A SDS club that counts five MPs. Club chairman is Mr Momčilo Novaković, and his deputy is Mr Miloš Jovanović; 4. The HDZ-Demonchrist Coalition Club 5 MPs. The club chairman is Mr. Niko Lozančić, the vice chairman is Mr. Martin Raguž; 5. Club SDP - 3 MPs. The club chairman is Jozo Križanović, the deputy chairman is Mr. Selim Bešlagić; 6. SNSD MPs' club, which counts three MPs. The club chairman is Mr. Nikola Kragulj, Vice-President Milorad Živković; 7. MEPsDNZ Club HDU and BOS - 3 MPs. The club chairman is Mr Ibrahim Đedović, and the vice-presidents are Mr Mladen Potočnik and Muhamed Morankić and 8. Members' Club SDU NHI SPU – 3 MPs. The club chairman is Mr. Sead Avdić, the vice-president is Mr. Ivo Lozančić. So much for the information about the House MPs' clubs. This was one of our first commitments that we should have done after we established the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives. For the third session, then, I suggest the agenda that you received in the invitation for today's session. 1. Proposal for a budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and international commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2003 and 2. The draft law implementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and international obligations for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2003. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Here you go. I just want to let you know that we have practically established this agenda, but here I am obliged to give the word Mr. Potočnik Mladen has asked for a word. Here you go. I apologize to you, I hope that, however, I will repeat it here for a stenogram, so you're looking for an correction in the name of a political party. The People's Party working to improve. Mr. Potočnik. Here's the note. If there are no objections, sir, please, we have established the agenda, Mr. Špirić. You know we did it. Here you go. Mr Nikola Špirić
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6569	Dear Chairman, esteemed fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, namely what I would aim to do today after this debate to get to what we want together, so to hold the debate and to adopt the necessary documents. 3 But what is good we must do according to the Rules of Procedure. We need to know if this is a global general debate at the end of which MPs will plead. You know that article 106. The rules of procedure say the budget is adopted as well as other legal projects, so in accordance with the legislative procedure. So I'm interested in dividing the session into two parts. In the first place where we will have a general debate on the budget and the budget law, and in the second part, let MPs invest amendments so that we can definitely declare these documents. It seems to me that it would be much wiser and closer to the Rules of Procedure that we are now not guessing whether we will be the only country in Europe and in the world that adopts the budget in principle take or leave. I am not because, I think the session should be divided into two parts, in the first place where we will talk about general remarks and suggestions, and in the second part, if someone has amendments to declare that it is the legislative procedure first and second reading. So the first part should be devoted to the budget in the first reading, and the second part in the second reading so that we can finish all activities related to both of these documents today. That's why it would be good to know that we're not going into a global debate, so we're submitting amendments, so we don't know what we're going to plead about. In that sense, I wanted to give a suggestion that we should share this session in part one and two, and that might put an end to my vision of the Middle Rules of Procedure, not to the details of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6570	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. I think this thing you were talking about was undeniable. At a session of the Extended College where you were present, you well know how the College decided to conduct the procedure on these issues that are on the agenda. So the Rules of Procedure of this House will be fully respected, we will discuss the Budget first and the Budget Law in both the first and second readings at today's session, but also the first and second readings. Any new objections, suggestions, suggestions? If there isn't, then I'm doing business without voting, because that's the case, this wasn't an observation of changes and additions to the agenda. This was a suggestion for clarification after I gave the clarification. I agree that we have established the agenda for today's House of Representatives meeting as follows. 1. Proposal for a budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and international commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2003 and below 2. The draft law implementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and international obligations for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2003. As you know, we are obliged to conduct the discussion in the first and second readings. We move to the first item of the agenda 4 Ad.1. The draft budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and international obligations for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2003 is therefore a matter of first reading. This morning, as you also know, the Constitutional and Legal Commission and the Finance and Budget Committee met. The opinion of these committees, therefore the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and the report of the Finance and Budget Commission, I hope you have received before the beginning or in the very course of this session so far. I call on the representatives of the authorised and competent committees, primarily the Constitutional and ustavno-pravni, and then the Finance and Budget Commission to take the floor. I urge the representative of the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to take the floor. Mr. Ćeman Mirsad has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6571	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, so the Constitutional and Legal Commission discussed the draft budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and international commitments for 2003 at both the 1st and the working and constitutional sessions. For technical reasons you have not yet received as I suppose chairing this opinion in writing, the report, which we will do in the future in accordance with the business provisions, but I am obliged, here at the call of the Chairman to present the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. The Constitutional and Legal Commission of the House of Representatives therefore discussed the draft budget of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and international commitments for 2003 submitted by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency on 09.12.2002 to the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for consideration and adoption. The Constitutional and Legal Commission of the House of Representatives unanimously established that there is a valid constitutional and legal basis for the adoption of the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2003 contained in Article 4c. The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that the draft budget of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and international obligations for 2003 is in line with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that the text offered can be addressed, and this has already been done in some way to the competent commission of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the follow-up procedure. The committee in charge, whose opinion you will receive here later, and the report has considered this issue. There have been some opinions, views and conclusions on this draft budget on the Constitutional Commission, but this will be presented in the written form of the Chairman's House. It is mainly said that the Constitutional Commission is of the opinion that within 60 days of the Council of Ministers' constitution in the new term they are convened by an authorised proposing, 5 so Bosnia and Herzegovina's Presidency is proposing a budget rebalancing of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, including those items that are not currently contained in the Budget Proposal for reasonable reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6572	I thank the President, or authorized representative of the Constitutional and Legal Commission of this House. I call on the authorised representative of the Finance and Budget Commission to take the floor. I see the Commission has ordered it to be Mr Beriz Belkić. So the word has an MP, representative of this commission, Mr. Beriz Belkić
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6573	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, the Finance and Budget Committee held its session just before the start of our session. You have received a report on the table from which you can see the current and content of the session itself and I will only repeat what is in the form of a conclusion, i.e. in the form of a recommendation to the House of Representatives on the Commission. The Commission therefore proposes that the Bosnia and Herzegovina Assembly's House of Representatives be adopted today in the unchanged text by the Budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. the institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the service of international debts for 2003, and the Report on and the Law on the implementation of the 2003 budget. It also recommends a conclusion on the need for rebalancing 60 days after the creation of a new Council of Ministers, of course with the Council of Ministers' work programme. It also leaves the possibility and recommends seeing the possibility and changes and changes and the addition of possibly the Law on the implementation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2003 budget. And, of course, for including explaining the deadlines and conditions set by the International Monetary Fund, we think it would be good for the Ministry of the Treasury, or the Council of Ministers to make available the Memorandum of Understanding signed with the International Monetary Fund and reports on the monitors carried out so far related to the implementation of these arrangements. That is how much it recommends that it be adopted in the unchanged text of the 2003 Budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the 2003 Budget Implementation Act. This conclusion was reached by a majority of votes as you will see in the report. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6574	I thank Mr. Belkić. I call if they consider the necessary representatives of the Council of Ministers who are the processors of this text and the authorised representatives of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency who are the official proposal of the Budget and the Law on the implementation of the budget to take part in the debate. 6 The word has the Minister of the Treasury in the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Ante Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6575	Thank you very much. Honorable chairman, respected members of the presidency, respected representatives of this high house. The draft budget for 2003 and the 2003 budget law, which is today in front of you, has been the result of intensive work in the last 3 months to prepare this act and to review the Stand Bay arrangement that we concluded in August this year with the International Monetary Fund. This actively involved the Presidency in the previous composition, which made a real effort to find this budget within the very acceptable deadlines in Parliament. Of course, under the specific circumstances of the stand-by arrangement, so under the specific internal circumstances of the existence of the old Council of Ministers after the October elections, the establishment of a new Parliament and a very complex international position of Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially when it comes to its programme of economic and political reforms. This budget is established and can be considered to be an integral part of the standby arrangement programme that we had in the first revision in the past month. I want to meet this home that Stand Bay arrangement was concluded with the International Monetary Fund in March 2003 and it is the 15th monthly arrangement. It shall apply from August 2, 2002. The first revision in November showed outstandingly good results in the implementation of the Stand Bay arrangement. Especially impressive results in fiscal consolidation. So public spending is fully within the framework of the Stand Bay arrangement, even more favourable results. Then structural reforms are launched and a stable macroeconomic situation is realized, especially a stable inflation that practically tends to zero under the conditions of the existence of Karensa Board in Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, significant problems have been identified, which are being witnessed by all of us and the citizens of this country. So, structural unemployment problems, which, according to official data, reach about 40%, and according to unofficial data, about 22%, the high external deficit of around 20% of the social product and the low economic growth estimated at 4% this year, following this review of the Stand Bay arrangement to 4%. As a result, an additional memorandum on economic and financial policies has been set out for the new tasks the authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina are due to carry out in the coming period. Among other things, there has been an emphasis on timely budget preparation for 2003, so you are witnessing that the entity parliaments are also present today and here is the draft budget for 2003. This budget is the budget of unchanged policies. Therefore, because it is an old Council of Ministers, it cannot establish new policies, we leave it to the new Council of Ministers to propose new budgetary policies and therefore call this budget the budget of unchanged policies. He approached resolving two key problems contained in the budget, the first problem of funding Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, and the second problem of financing international commitments in Bosnia and Herzegovina, primarily after paying off external loans. When it comes to this second assignment, there is no dilemma. There are loan repayment programmes and that part of the 325 million budget, with 125 million interest, and about 200 7 million payments, is at least asked and he is practically asked by the new council of ministers will not be asked. It will practically have sustainability throughout 2003. However, this second part, i.e. the first in my order on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions, was the approach to the problem, was that, practically, on the basis of unchanged policies, we would try to finance the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by the time the new Council of Ministers was unable to propose new policies and budget rebalances. How could you see from the data 310 million marks are the demands of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions for financial resources this year. And we had about 205 million at our disposal. So somewhere 2/3 of those demands could be met globally. We must point out that the problem of unchanged policies is really difficult to apply. In fact, the approach to unchanged policies is difficult to apply because you have the appearance of new institutions in this, in 2003 and early 2003 compared to the situation in 2002. So unchanged policies could be applicable if we had the same structure of institutions, the same structural needs. However, things are in practice quite different. That is why we had to, the Council of Ministers approached and proposed a differentiated approach to the Presidency. The approach in which the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are divided into three groups according to the nature of the problem. The first group is mature institutions. So those who practically work at full capacity. For them, we had to provide sufficient resources to work to ensure functional capacity. The second group is the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina which were founded in 2002 and started work, but not fully developed and their development in 2003 should be supported by certain means. That's for example. The DGS that will have full development, then there's the Court of BiH, there's the Prosecutor's Office, there's the Veterinary Office, there's the Animal Marking Agency, the Competition Council, etc. And the third group are institutions that were founded at the end of 2002 and have not yet been developed and should in 2003, with this budget, provide only initial funds for their development. It is a typical example of the SIP Agency for Information and Protection, which, with a planned amount of 5 million marks as initial for development on the basis of this budget. I must highlight the problem the Council of Ministers has been dealing with, which the Bureau has also accepted as a need to resolve by the new council of ministers, which is a real location of state-level entity resources in those cases where newly-formed institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are replacing existing entities. The SIP is also one of the visible examples. While estimating the activity so far in preparing this document, I would also like to say a little bit about the scope of Bosnia and Herzegovina's external responsibility, because this is an opportunity related to some current stories and to the bankruptcy of Bosnia and Herzegovina, its unsustainableness, etc. Bosnia and Herzegovina calms its international obligations neatly. Bosnia and Herzegovina's debt from 30.6.2002 when we last informed Parliament about this is about 4 billion and 100 million marks. Of which, Republika Srpska's billion and 400 million and the Federation are 2 billion and 700 million. In the long largest-place structure, the most prominent place has an old debt, so Bosnia and Herzegovina's debt inherited by 8 of the former Yugoslavia and is 2 billion and 400 million, and the new debt is 670, i.e. a billion and 700 million. So in terms of the debt structure, the inherited debt is dominant, and the new debt is in a very tolerated volume and in line with the payment possibilities created. The most important thing is the old debt and the new debt, they pay off on very favourable terms. Let's just mention the case of a new debt. It's usually determined by what's called. concession conditions, therefore, not market conditions. For example. from the World Bank, the World Bank Development Agency, we get loans at 35 years at an interest rate of 0.7%, which means that the loan contains a high rate of grant, i.e. practically some help. In this sense, Bosnia and Herzegovina has a somewhat changed situation when it is viewed as the total amount of the loans granted. We have about 5 billion and 100 million marks of approved loans, but they have not yet been used in the use phase, so these 4 billion and 100 have been effectively used. However, with this overall approved level of Bosnia and Herzegovina has a duty of about 51% compared to the country's social product, which is a category that says we are a moderately in charge of the country. As well as the favourable conditions of borrowing, it is so called. net current value of around 45%. So Bosnia and Herzegovina is in a stable position in this respect, and it will also have to secure the inflow of international capital in the future, but less and less by borrowing the country, and increasingly by borrowing private capital, directly by borrowing banks, commercial companies and especially by inflow of foreign direct investment. In that sense, I think that the issue of public debt, the external public debt of Bosnia and Herzegovina is completely under control and that you will be further informed in your work. This is a question that Bosnia and Herzegovina can normally provide the necessary resources and thus secure its international liquidity. We have even made a special annex with this agreement with the International Monetary Fund, predicting that the Federation and Republika Srpska must be 5 days ahead of the international commitment to obtain funds for a single vault account in order to be disposable for reconciliation of international obligations. And it's one of the performances of the stand-by arrangement and it's properly respected with one small exception this year when there was a little delay due to a misunderstanding of 2.5 million marks. Otherwise, there is one complete efficiency in paying off this debt. On the basis of everything that has been stated by us as an existing Council of Ministers' meeting, we have proposed with full responsibility to the Presidency a proposal for this budget. The presidency has accepted it with small modifications and it is proposed to adopt this budget together with the law in the proposed form. I am saying this as an authorised representative of the Presidency who gave me the power at my second session to represent them at Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6576	I thank Mr. Secretary. The minister's move practically began the debate. Can I help you? Who else wants to talk? Yes, the principle debate on principles. Thank you, Mr. Belkić. Mr. Potočnik, get ready for Mr. Novaković, then Mr. Špirić. Here you go, Mr. Mladen. You're going to go out for a pay phone and you're going to say it nicely, so I don't interpret your words in a stenogram. And let's get to know each other a little bit. Introduce yourself to that.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6577	I'm usually the Mladen Potočnik People's Party working to improve. I only have one question for Mr Domazet – what is the internal debt of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6578	I thank Mr. Potočnik. Mr. Novaković asked for a word. Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Have Mr. Nikola Špirić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6579	Madam Chairman, honourable members of the Council of Ministers, esteemed fellow Members, I came out as a member of the Finance and Budget Committee to make some remarks on the Commission's report, in particular that I do not seem to have adopted such a report, i.e. as a member of the Commission, I did not vote for this report, but for a different report. So I am talking about the report on the Law on the implementation of the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and international obligations for 2003. First of all, I think it is necessary in the first part of the report that most of the votes were accepted by the Commission in the light of the fact that the amendments were also accepted by the majority of the votes. Therefore, the Commission was not unanimous and the report should say that most of the votes accepted the text means this law. And second in these conclusions, conclusion number two. It is quite clear, I have asked whether this implies the adoption of a new, i.e. the debate is the adoption of a new budget law, since the newly created institutions under the law imposed by the High Representative cannot be financed from the funds of the reserve, or in any case it will be insufficient. So a new law is necessary, and I therefore think that in this report, so I voted that in 60 days, within 60 days, when the budget rebalance is adopted, and we know for what reasons the new law on budget implementation is adopted. So, please appreciate this, if not then to know that I didn't vote. So I didn't vote as a member of the Commission for this conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6580	Mr. Novaković, I didn't interrupt your fact-finding first call at a regular session, but I would ask all MPs to stick to the agenda. You were actually talking about the next agenda point, the second one. We are now in the debate or in the debate on the budget, so we are not in the debate on the Budget Implementation Act. That's the second item of the agenda. So I'd ask you to take care of it. Does anyone want to talk about the budget? That's the agenda point. Mr. Špirić is therefore, after that Mr. Munib Jusufović should prepare himself. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6581	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests. It is very difficult in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, this is the fifth year in which every time we come as a state parliament not before the deadlines of 5 to 12, but at 12 and 5. This is a country where no one has ever asked why they are forever late and why we are in a situation where someone at 12 and 5 sets such deadlines for us. But I hope that the time ahead will elicit such debates within this House. We are the only country in Europe and in a world where this can be called the budget. The only one. I cannot understand that in the budget for next year, it bears the title – the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2003, we are calling for old policies until the new year, and for new policies from the new year and for the criteria to be mature institutions and other immature institutions. So which was founded in 2002 at the beginning and institutions founded before the end of 2002, and we all know that this is just part of the institutions and part of the budget. It is not unknown the theory that there are annex budgets double budgets. This can be called part of the budget, but it can't be called budget. And we are the only country in the world where Parliament at the same time opens a debate on the budget and mentions the rebalancing before it adopts the budget. Who knows what Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2003 budget will be. But what we got, ladies and gentlemen, I want to draw attention to reading this explanation of the draft budget and budget, I couldn't get to the number of employees employed in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. How can we know, and everything has to be transparent for the sake of the public, for those who don't get paid by here for 5, 10 years, what are the average salaries and how can they be calculated if I don't have a number to share with. It's all over the head in economic statistics per man. I don't know, then, except for the part of the budget or here how busy the workers are in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about reforms here. We have two parallel processes in Bosnia and Herzegovina called not administration reform, but administration growth. The opening of new institutions that we all, therefore, said all political parties should strengthen state institutions is a process that needs to be pursued. But if this process is harder for entities, then gentlemen isn't a bright situation because we can serve external debt, because we do well in this country, but we don't have creditors to behave differently. And we will be forced by the World Bank and the IMF and the London Club to serve our debt. And he's right, Minister Domazet, when he says we won't be inequitable to the international community. That's why they're forcing these institutions to know if they're going to withdraw the funds they've granted us to give us a new loan. And an internal debt of over $10 billion is a matter to put a finger on the head and lead extensive discussions, but it is not a topic of discussion for the budget. What I'm trying to say and so it's about the budget, and I've prepared some amendments in this second part, and it's going to be very specific to my position, knowing what kind of time teat we're in versus the budget of this part of the budget. So I'm not calling him the budget. And here, of course, at least those of us who deal with the economy defends professional dignity, not politicalism. I don't know if there's a professor teaching students who can take this to college and say, you know, this is called your budget. In a country that he can describe as Bosnia and Herzegovina. So ladies and gentlemen, we have the first item of income balance by sources and purposes. It's article two, which shows, excuse me, I'm sorry, article 3. So we have an 11-year-old practice where we started at a time when the rulers in this country thought we should just finance their chairs and it's enough that there's money for them, everything else doesn't matter. So we came to the point that in this country 5, 7 years after Dejton, the three-member presidency spent more than both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's a night. I agree that all institutions should lack a quantum asset. But this practice is continued. So that's why we have a situation where the three-member presidency sometimes appears from Banja Luka, once from Mostar, once from Sarajevo playing decentralisation in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it's only supposed to sit here, just here. It's not decentralisation, and that's what we need to talk about, and all we need is a bus to the Council of Ministers. And then we have a driving society where the administration grows, and the workers say they don't live happily ever after. I am therefore ready to reduce the item of funds for the work of the Presidency and to increase what we have been discussing for two years and to provide different resistances, which is a new institution that is an information and protection agency that is responsible for security, which has the jurisdiction of criminal prosecution, bribery, corruption, crime, and all are full of mouths to fight it. I am in order to reduce by a million expenditures on the Presidency side and strengthen on the revenue side of the Information and Protection Agency. Also in the announcements of the European Integration Ministry in the new year, according to new policies, it will be a sector within the government's Secretariat or those of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and cannot draw funds on principle as if it were the Ministry, unless it makes sense again in this country. So I do not dispute the importance and importance of this sector for European integration, but rather financial resources, and I propose that the reduction of the funds for 500 000 and transfer to the work of the Permanent Election Commission, because here we will have a year to mention how the Election Commission is supposed to bring it into line with the Conventions on the Protection of Human Rights, etc. What I think you should do. It should take care of law enforcement, conflict of interest, financing of political parties, etc. And to increase by 500,000 from that item, just to transfer. So I'm talking about global figures that are consistent with the IMF and the World Bank. There's no breakthrough here, which is a conditional call. And of course I could still count it. And what's particularly unclear to me, and this country, of course, has allowed it under the motto to help happen. You have, for example, institutions that were well funded by the international donation community, where no one knows how many people are employed, whether they pay contributions and taxes, which would be called money laundering or a grey economy anywhere in the world. We have them here, we service part of the space, equipment, etc., but we have no work report at all. This is unfortunately important institutions for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am therefore to make them as large as possible, to the extent possible even budgeted for control, which is the House of Human Rights, the Commission for Property Requirements and the Office for Human Rights, where for salaries and charges the costs of employees are paragraph 0. And do we have a right if they're in the budget to at least ask for a report to see what's done? I think we do. This is legalization, although it cannot be disputed, let's say, the work of these important things that are important to an ordinary man. But this is the legalization of the gentleman's money laundering. This would be called all over the world. We've also entered that stage to a good extent. But as a serious Parliament, we must make sure that the times are coming in which ordinary people will meet us more and more and ask for things. And in that sense, I have proposed amendments in the second part of this debate, so in the second part of this debate and whether or not by adopting those amendments, it will define my relationship with the part of the budget, and this is nowhere in the world that you can believe it could not be called the 2003 budget, if 12 we know there will be new two ministries, a new secretariat in the form of the ministry, a new sector of the ministry that is passing and no one knows what the administrative budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be for 2003. So this is the setting of deadlines for those who have honestly credited us, and that's what we should call it, because they don't give us people that memorial to stall them.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6582	Mr. Špirić about principles, yes, that's what the debate is about.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6583	Here's what I'm talking about. It's principles. The principles are whether we have a budget or we don't have a budget and on what principles it was built on. Made on the basis of old politics, and we're going to enter a new year with new policies. There. So they're not good principles, but the necessity drives us towards those who gave us funds and ask us again to charge us to do so. There's no question about that either. But are we going to change the principles so far? Please, nice. If all MPs are professionals, and the time ahead is for Bosnia and Herzegovina to join the EU, so all professionals to read, I say to you that by April we can. And then we'll see what kind of situation. So the principles aren't right. This is just a commitment to the IMF and the World Bank. That's a fair point. And even a session was called on the basis of a letter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6584	Thank you. Mrs. Hadžiahmetović asked for a word. This is a replica. So she announced the replica. The word has an MP, Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović. Replication to Mr. Špirić's exposure, I presume.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6585	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, allow me to perform here in one of the perhaps unusual roles. Replica to Professor Nikola Špirić, fellow professor. I understand that my colleague, Professor Anto Domazet, cannot defend the language of the profession here, so I have also allowed myself as someone who teaches others what the budget is to go out for this pay phone and remind you of one very important thing. The budget is an account and a budget as well as any account has its own income and expenditure items. And it's true that if we compare this to the normal state budgets, it's not a normal budget, so it could be questionable if this is even the budget. Because, as we know, there is no original income, and in this sense, my colleague Špirić and I very much agree that if this were analysed, it could be asked, i.e. to bring to the field the question of whether this is the budget as it is in normal countries and the rest. I would like to remind all those who will take part in future budgetary policies that the budget is not only for expenditure settlement, i.e. budgetary spending, the state spending of the country's institution financing obligations towards the international community, but also has a developmental character. Unfortunately, we can't even think about it until we meet the first part of the item relating to the budget, which is that we have the original income. I think the issue will come to the agenda very quickly and both parliaments will be through VAT analysis, or finding some other opportunities to meet the requirements that BiH's budget expects. 13 Secondly, when it comes to unchanged policies, since counterpart Špirić was in the previous Council of Ministers' meeting, he knows very well and I think that we will also agree that my fellow Špirić and I will not change the policies that lead us to the ground, restrictions on spending to the extent that the criteria of income are so far. Here, the state budget, as most of you know, is alimony of entity budgets mostly, and when I say alimony, alimony is probably a reminder of something from fellow Špirić and most MPs in this House of Representatives. Therefore, bringing about consumption in the real frameworks with which this country can dispose. It is very nice to bid various forms of consumption, demands and we are very aware here of the need of state institutions, the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, state agencies etc. The old and new, forming new, adapting BiH on our path to membership or to say approaching membership of the European Union or membership of other international associations, which is a perfectly normal path for BiH to require increased requirements, and this requires increased revenues, and we all need to count on that and unchanged policies are that we only still have an unchanged item on the side of income. Why is there a sign of budget rebalancing here and why I felt the need today in this sense and the replicas may be colleagues agreeing or not agreeing with fellow Špirić will understand it very well when mentioning budget rebalancing or the hint of rebalancing, the rebalancing will be but again in real frameworks, more because of the restructuring of state institutions and not because in the next two or three months we will be able to spend much more on some institutions. I think it's better for all MPs, especially those who are not economists to know at first. Thirdly, here is the question either Stand-Stend-bay or Bay-Bay so let all MPs decide in this assembly of the State Parliament, or other parliaments, assuming that we all understand well that Stend Bay is a bridge and budget support for the work of institutions in this case all those mentioned in the Budget, alternatively, let them all conclude.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6586	I thank Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. Sir, it can't be a replica, it can only be an answer to the replica if that's it. Replication response. Here you go, Mr. Špirić, take care of the weather.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6587	Ladies and gentlemen, kolegica Hadžiahmetović came forward to replicate. Looks like we agreed it wasn't a normal budget, at least we agreed to it, and I'm giving it to the right. But it's the first time I've heard it since she mentioned an expert debate about Budget being an account. The budget is an economic-political document or a bag of state registers, it's not an account, but we can open the debate in a tight way. So, if we're going to have an expert discussion, the least place is here, but this afternoon we're going to lead. So, with coffee, me and my colleague, Azra. Therefore, there is time to learn from this bay-bay arrangement and what is important for this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6588	Okay, of course, you'll definitely continue that debate. Thank you for educating us to move on with our work. Mr. Munib Jusufović asked for a word. Here you go, Mr. Munib. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6589	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, gentlemen ministers, honored guests, I'm going to ask a question to Mr. Domazet, who is known from the experience he has so far when he wants to give a good answer but he knows how to bypass it, so I'm guessing that here at least he'll be able to answer something that I'm going to ask a question and that's, with a brief review, as you might notice, with an impact on the tight deadlines, urgency, so that's why it's called on today, I suppose, today, to adopt and vote. But there's something I'd like to ask, though. It is noted that most BiH institutions that are budget users, that most of them are reduced this year, let's say so, that there are a lot of new bodies where they are not, where they are not even foreseen. I am particularly interested in an institution and this is the Regulatory Agency for Communications. If it's known both to you and to me, it seems to me that there have been a lot of these stories in the public around that agency, that it's a special superintendent, for which no one can ask how many employees there are, or how much pay or who formed it. I had the impression that it was a foreign agent, because that's what they're paying for, but here I now notice that it's in Budget, as of today, it's domestic. If it is, and it is, it stands here in Budget and belongs to one of the few institutions, where it has been increased again, income has been increased. Is that certain pressures followed, given such an organ, which cheers and dresses or someone behind it, so you had to increase there. I've entered these items of an individual in the body itself, but there could have been an internal redistribution, or rather, I'm interested in that very agency to explain. If it is a domestic organ, and here I see it is, it can't possibly today, give a brief answer, but we'll probably be in a situation that in two or three months it's going to have to be for all of these new organs and a lot of things to go on rebalancing, it's got to be given an internal structure as many employees as it is, what are the salaries. If this is a domestic institution, then we want to know whether or not someone from the international community liked it or not to like discussing the institution. If you don't like to be paid, and then it's not our obligation, but since it is a budget bond, then we're looking for information and you can't see here, at all, how many employees there are, and it was in public that the cleaning lady has a higher salary than the minister, and it's likely that's the case. Now, that's from an opportunity, there's quite a bit of it, after all, it's time for us to find out, if we're going to lift our fingers for something to find out what the internal structure is, which would logically be the Assembly that's going to have a strong dynamic in this term, here we have or less income here, etc. and a series of other institutions. If you can't answer, then tell us you can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6590	I thank Mr. Jusufović. The word is Mr. Hasan Muratović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6591	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, allow me first to thank Mr. Domazet for informing the public of our country's duties. You know that in the past there have been many wrong interpretations of the country's duties in daily politics. In 1996 and 1997, we successfully reconstructed our debts with the help of the World Bank, and the World Bank has helped us to come to terms with and manage the first phase of reconstruction and primarily in one debt that is now, within a longer period, allowing us to make our external debts, external obligations neatly possible. 15 We should continue our work to rely, in my opinion, on the work of committees. We have enough representatives in committees. They can always charge and have professional assistance from the proposings of what they are considering, and in this sense I would like us to be very rational today, to accept the proposals of these two committees. We are all aware that this is not the quality of the budget or the law this parliament would normally adopt, and we all know that we are under pressure to adopt it as a temporary document, as a temporary solution, under which we will act until the new council of ministers makes a new budget and a law on its execution. I ask you to be rational in this sense, that as much as possible, we take this as one of our obligations, as one of our contributions immediately at the beginning of our work, to function normally towards the international community, which we have promised full cooperation and that we should impose ourselves with our quality and make in the shortest possible time the budget that will best be able to service our needs, within our capabilities and which, again, will be fully in agreement with what we need to do towards the international community, because I think we are expected to have a new phase of reconstruction, the second phase of reconstruction, which is not, unfortunately, understood when the first phase of reconstruction is over. We must again rely on our old friends and more cooperative World Bank, European Union and US experts and those who helped us to implement the first part of the reform, so today we can realize that we, in addition to all the troubles, are able to repay our debts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6592	I thank Mr. Muratović. Mrs. Palavrić Sead has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6593	Dear Ministerial Board of the House, dear colleagues and colleagues, let me state my position that, I think we should vote this budget today as Professor Muratović said, for the reason that this is a commitment to the IMF and the World Bank and the rest of the international community that has helped us during the current period in the procedure without amendments and with the obligation to offer us within 60 days, not for 60 days, but within 60 days the rebalancing of Budžet. However, according to Professor Hadžiahmetović, Budjet is an account. It is an account, but I'm asking for a stenogram and for those who are going to rebalance Budget that we have in mind the fact that it is Budget and the law and that as such it should be, it has to have an explanation. The explanation given to us next to this Budget is just a formal explanation and in fact it does not answer the questions that we ask when we read the Budget. So we must have, in addition to that, in the Budget itself, we really need the number of employees, preferably the level of wages. The fact is that a large number of budget users have expressed a reduction in the planned funds compared to 2002. In an explanation, it must answer the question why the reduction, why only in some reductions, whether these institutions will be able to function with such a reduction or not, also contains new institutions that will have to be established soon. Also, give an answer to the question of the implementation of the specific purpose programme, because as far as I can understand it this way, without reason that they are very questionable, they are high, and it seems to me that Article 6 is conditioned, will only happen under certain conditions. I also need an answer to the question why, as said in Article 6(2), on the scope and priorities of additional financing of the Council of Ministers will make specific decisions. So there are a lot of questions that haven't even been answered at all, and I think they're rebalancing along with the budget that they're probably going to be much bigger than this. The Rebalans Budget will have to answer all the questions 16 and I think this is just part of a question that I believe the other MPs in this house are interested in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6594	Thank you, Mrs. Seada Palavrić. The word was sought by Mr. Jovanović Miloš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6595	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, before I say anything about the 2003 Budget of the Institutions proposal, I would like to ask a question. Was it really so necessary for this session to be held today, instead of tomorrow as we agreed, whether that one day means so much or is on stage again, I'm going to say it freely, disdaining and honoring this home, no matter where it comes from. Because if we agreed on Monday to hold a session on this issue, which we are discussing today, it seems to me that one day didn't mean so much, but good. If someone estimated it to be of interest to BiH and its citizens, it was not difficult for us to come from Bileca and Zvornik, Prnjavor, and it would not be difficult for us to come tomorrow. I wouldn't take a diary, and that one, and I would personally give it here to a lady journalist, who in a very incorrect way when we left last session, said, "How did we come to take the diary and then leave the Assembly?" There, so much about it. And when it comes to the draft budget of the institutions for 2003, we will probably be in a position to discuss Budget and when the budget rebalancing of Budgets is on the agenda to discuss, probably, much more detail and detail. What I have now noticed and what has fallen into my eyes, which is the separation of large funds for the State Border Service. So almost one third of total monetary income, adding up to the Information and Protection Agency, means one third of the budget is set aside. I might say this for the police, and I'm afraid we're not making the police state again, as we had at some point, because I say if one third of the total monetary income is allocated to the State Border Service. One part of mine, to say the principled discussion has already been taken by Mr Špirić and Mr Jusufović and I would not repeat it. So it would be logical for all the institutions that are financed from the Budget of BiH to know how many employees there are, but I suppose, since a new law on the Council of Ministers is imposed, that there will probably be some reorganisation and within the ministries, and I guess that's when we'll probably have that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6596	Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go. After that, Tihomir Gligorić. I'm sorry. I'd like to ask you if anyone wants to participate in the debate, since I obviously won't be able to track all those who hand-sign that they want to speak, write, want to speak, and forward it through the Department's Office here for this table. So much for that. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6597	I thank Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to clarify a possible dilemma that may appear with the inaccurate use of 17 terms of the BiH Presidency under the Constitution of the Budgetor. This is the budget proposed by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency within its constitutional powers. There is Minister Domazet, a man who, in front of the Council of Ministers, has also prepared a technical Budget for the Presidency under the Constitution and under the Council of Ministers Act, and he is here, in this capacity, an authorised proponent on behalf of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency under the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the applicable laws under which we are acting. So, what's ahead of us is the Budget of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency. So he's based on three categories. In the first category, the fact that the Bureau proposed, in the second important category, that determines us by the IMF and Stand Bay arrangements that were approved by us on 2 August o.g. with all that was contained in the letter of intent which, I thought was distributed to all MPs and MPs and I think that the proposal that someone made was a good suggestion to be a complete set, a memorandum and a complete set of papers relating to the nature of the Stand Bay arrangement and what it means and the obligations it was made to be delivered to all MPs and MPs, and I think it is one conclusion of the working character that should be supported. The third element on which this budget was made, if it is the first domestic character, the second international character, is the third domestic and international character, it is to remind you of this paper, this document called "Work and Justice", which adopted the Peace Implementation Council together with the Council of Ministers, which is now in the technical mandate, and that you can see in common on the last page on which it is seen that this document is BiH and ten institutions, or representatives of the international community in BiH, and this is a document which, too, I propose to Parliament's leadership to distribute it to all MPs, because this document will require the first, I suppose, the programme of work of this House, because Budget is a direct reflection of this document. Since the debate is now under Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of Rule 1 I will remain at that level, but I will remind you that by the time we were able to influence it, we violated Rule 106's Rules of Procedure because by 15 October the Bureau was supposed to make a proposal and couldn't give it because there was an outgoing presidency, so we know that we broke our rules of procedure to establish it and that we know that we were doing it for objective reasons, because until 15 November, the House of Nations had to do this. That's what I'm saying, because I keep asking myself a question, which is why we're doing it so quickly. By November 15, we were supposed to do it by the Rules of Procedure, and we couldn't do it because we had a going home to the people. I also remind you of Article 107, all those who speak of rebalanese who say once the budget is passed, and I suppose we will bring it to the point that the budget can be amended by a bill to be passed and discussed under the same conditions, and therefore the conclusion of a 60-day conclusion, which I assume is referencing to this article and it is not about any adoption of a new budget, but about a rebalan which is completely natural. Also, I want to say this opportunity to point out that this budget is in all the documents that you have received and that you did not get that is a transitional framework and that, as the new government is formed, so called the IMF representatives. The new government will be able to, if it wants to rebalance the budget fully in line with its priorities. I'm undermining according to my priorities. What Mr Muratović was talking about suggests some new priorities, which is quite a legitimate thing. However, it stands with the IMF's consultation. Otherwise, we are now in a situation that, and I want it to be found here, at least for this speaker, whether or not we agree to, that by adopting this budget, the new 18 governments are left with a clear situation when it comes to realising the conditions of the Stand Bay arrangement that have been ahead of us so far. This means, if this is accepted today that and this is what we insisted that the first quarter of next year will not be the quarter of the financial impact on the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and both entities, because in the first quarter, let me remind you, it is not just about 15 million dollars being the second tranche of the Stand Bay arrangement under the IMF being paid and it is not just about the need for the first tranche, I apologize this is the second tranche of the IMF. The second tranche is the European Union's 60m-euro package. It is the fact that the first tranche of the 15m-euro package should be paid immediately into the role of the BiH macro-economic assistance programme, and it is very important to stress this because in the first quarter of next year, the inflow of revenues will come into entity budgets, and then the donations to the State budget will be under great pressure from the BiH institution, and by adopting this budget, we are crossing the canyon ahead of us. I would like to say once again that this is the Budget with unchanged budgetary policies and that I am doing this for the public and for our sakes a good underline, because we do not have the right as a technical government to bring any draft budget, even in the working consultation of the Presidency to give which one will be with the amended budgetary policies. The new government can change budget policy. It's perfectly legitimate and even I expect her to apply. By the way, since this was about foreign debt, I want this opportunity to just say to warn us that the IMF is planning three visits next year, one in February, the second in May and the third in September. It will be three visits when an intensive review of what entities are and what we have done in the realisation of the policy we are committed to. Each of these points can be a crisis point for all of us together, whether we're on this or that position, but we represent the highest legislative power in this country. Namely, there is, it can be seen who read more in detail that in the RS already in February, then in May, then in August, and then in November, they can expect a bigger blow to budget requirements, so due to the timing of the payments that entities have committed to sending through a flow water heater called the BiH Treasury Ministry out. So in those four months, which are quite correctly distributed in February, May, August and November will be needed from the Budget of the RS to separate around 60 million marks, which is not a small blow to that budget, and in the Federation it will not be the same months. It will be in the Federation in June and December, where in those two months it will be necessary to separate from the Budget close to 60 million marks just for the tranches outside. I listed this because you will practically have complete insignificantness, whether that month has fallen to your entity or to that entity that you do not experience as your own, because in both cases the flags of all BiH fall. So we're objectively going to be in front of situations once every two months because of what's ahead of us. Otherwise, when it comes to Budget, I want to inform the House of Two Facts, which here in the materials delivered to the MPs cannot be seen. First, the foreign ministry is here with a decrease compared to this year by nearly 4 million marks. The Council of Ministers has so proposed and forwarded a proposal to the Presidency with a note, if such a budget is proposed, the Presidency as constitutionally authorised, so to speak, the country's foreign policy holder, should be in an emergency procedure to determine which few of the three diplomatic and consular representations in the world should be closed. We have made one proposal as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for two just so that we can see if there is a willingness to do so, and there has already come into a bit of a difficult situation, in a certain way, which is to say that you know that this budget implies and gives the Presidency the obligation to reduce at least three DKPs in the world, which I, as Minister of Foreign Affairs at this meeting, believe it is entirely justified and we have proposed and I think it is a good thing to do now and another element that I want to draw attention to, which would say Azra in a rather strange situation as an MP and not as a minister at this point, it is about financing a lawsuit against Yugoslavia. Let me just remind you, the Council of Ministers had a proposal to finance the lawsuit against Yugoslavia at its working stage and the proposal had a ratio of 4-2 to the Council of Ministers, and since the Council of Ministers decided by consensus then the proposal did not go through. The Bureau had such a proposal ahead of it and, as you can see, the Presidency also did not propose financing this lawsuit in the budget. I don't detect hot water. I just want to say, for the public's sake, that a little less than a year ago, we had a very heated debate in this Parliament that remembers. So, the BiH presidency as a proposing, I want the public to know, has not provided funding for the lawsuit against Yugoslavia. Whether it's good or bad, let's just let each one of you evaluate it on its own. As far as I could understand from the means of information, there's someone there to correct me if I'm wrong, there's the Presidency was, indeed, triple in every sense of that word, because the voting ratio was 1-1-1. One for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, So, you know, in this budget that is now ahead of you there is no and to conclude Mr. Chairman, I think we need to be aware of the facts and it is expected that a new council of ministers is really expected, and I fully support what the distinguished colleague Palavrić said, that in less than 60 days we need to find a budget rebalance in line with the same or new policy. But this budget means that the clean bill and the left and that Stend Bay arrangement is still alive. My fellow MP and Professor Hadžiahmetović used one or a style figure to talk about the Bay-Bay arrangement. I, indeed, want to say once again that every country in which the main preoccupation of the common man Stand Bay arrangement is poor. Fortunately, citizens still don't know exactly what a Stend-by arrangement is. They don't know because he's not threatened and because we have him. I sincerely hope we all do everything together so he doesn't be threatened, and then in phase two, we do everything we don't need. He is, unfortunately, necessary to us now, and therefore, Mr. Chairman, once again, I would ask you to forward these documents to us, which I have cited as MPs, and I suggest that, within your presidency, you see how the work plan of this home can be done, as soon as possible, so that it is based, exactly, on these documents that I have told you, and in that sense, I want to tell you that we support the Budget in this fai and we also support, the rebalancing to be done in less than 60 days, and let all of us be fortunate both today and in those 60 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6598	Thank you. Mr. Tihomir Gligorić asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6599	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we're closing this debate, but just because of the different approaches, I wanted to say next. First, I get the feeling that in this House, it's as if someone else's hand has brought us into their own house, so we act as if we're not in our own home. It may be that we are newly elected, but that is why we are now as a technical body, and when we talk about the principle of adoption of the budget, I would ask the Ministry of Treasury, the Council of Ministers, but since they are now as a technical body, and we are again a House of Representatives, not the House of Peoples of Ministers, to remember or reach a conclusion. It is, in order for the ministry to be sober, I am talking about the level of BiH, of course the same applies to the entity level. The ministry of the vault when it works with the IMF and when it goes to the Council of Ministers, 20 then to the Presidency, and the Presidency of this Parliament, to include the Commission for Finance and Budget, the Commission for Administrative Affairs in the House of Peoples, and that they work together, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, not to be surprised by what has been done and not to lead us to the final act, because the Commission for Finance and Budget should, and these are us, because I have been in a previous meeting to educate through the OEP or OSCE, that the Commission in Parliament together participates in the first and initial phase, and that is what MP Mr Muratović has spoken about, and I think that we all agree here to actively include the Commission for Finance and Budget at the very beginning, so that everything will be open and there will be no questions as to how many employees, and you have an item and other ilities that we have in Budget today. We are aware of the situation to support it, but at the same time as Parliament we are not a form but a essence of parliamentary and parliamentary life, because it is a absence at this time for sure. I think that in the part where we talk about the budget, we should especially take the bill into account in this House. We bring laws here, or otherwise imposes on the High Representative on a temporary basis, which is why it is said to come back to Parliament and again we declare it, and what happens then does not follow the budget of the new institutions and are not envisaged, and to remind you, in time, Bosnia and Herzegovina is the only condition that Bosnia and Herzegovina is the first and only condition for the functioning of the system institutions. We have such a paradox today that we have, and here is the Council of Ministers in an extended composition, we have many laws and many institutions where we have not provided space, equipment and housing, and how to operate the legal system and the institutions of the system if we didn't foresee it in Budget, and we haven't said this yet, when we talk about a framework that we can't go beyond the known reasons, but it seems to me that next to the IMF that stands somewhere behind the consciousness and we don't see it, but it pulls those strings and I'll be happy as a messenger when the IMF is not in BiH, when we prove to the development and other programs, and otherwise we can provide what Professor Azra said, it will be a new time where Lagumdžija said. That is why we need to push for it, because the IMF and other world organisations financially have their logic and it is not people's donation that it will and how it will cost the citizens of this country, and it is not in the hands of charity, but it is simply a financial agreement, but without a partner called the BiH Parliament, and it has to be made clear. Partnership relations must be because these are contractual relations, which must be respected and two wills must be agreed on, but not only to criticise the IMF, but also to give criticism to our institutions of the Treasury Ministry, I may be wrong and the Council of Ministers in general, whether they are also hiding behind the IMF and giving us as MPs a framework in which we can't even change the items, because you can't change a word or a comma, and I believe that Parliament can do this and then, as a newly elected parliament, has come to such a bit confused situation that those present here know that they have nicely set up the Presidency, have set up a new council of ministers, and at the expense of Parliament and its basic functions and roles, and will not function a single quarter of about.g. as Parliament and legislative authority, the highest authority in one country, and therefore I would suggest a conclusion in that form to put emphasis on the Finance and Budget Commission that when the IMF first knocks on the door of the Treasury Ministry or the Ministry of Finance per entity. At all levels, he addresses the committees in charge, because this is a four-year mandate for people. Let's keep the dignity and dignity we've lost in the past, surely. So let's build these relationships, because on the one hand you have the education of parliamentarians who say it's said in other countries and then you have, simply, some other way and access to that job, in which you simply don't have the ability to invest amendments and you have to accept everything and, indeed, you lose all your meaning. I will personally support as an MP with all these shortcomings and what you've criticised today, which should be changed in the budget's rebalancing. Thank you. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6600	Thank you, Mr. Gligorić. Mr. Niko Lozančić asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6601	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the council, I must say that I was in a dilemma whether, in the face of today, to report in a breakdown, but here's how I see here we've had very interesting presentations today, so, here, that interest and I make my contribution. We had a very substantial course on what parliament is, how it should function, how even relations in the Presidency are, how the Presidency is voting, how the Presidency should do, how this, how it is, and I think we at least talked about the content itself, about the agenda point, whether we are going to adopt the BiH budget today, the BiH institution or not, and if we want to, and if we don't want to. We know that, in accordance with the applicable legal regulations, even in our Rules of Procedure, it is foreseen that by 15.10 every year, a proposal was submitted by the Presidency and I would like to remind all those who have mentioned that there was no House of Representatives in this House, nor was the BiH Presidency in this meeting, and it is not correct to refer it to the current composition of the Presidency, nor this House of Representatives, because I think none of us mentioned it, so it is not correct to mention it in any other sense. It is also clear that this is not a normal state and that anyone who reads the BiH Constitution can see it on the first reading, on the second, on the 16th and on each and the next, and will see that it is not a normal state, but do not open it just on the Budget issue. It's not normal for me to fill this Federation budget with two-thirds and RS with one-third, but that's what the Constitution says. So it's not something that we're talking about today. It is not normal for me to define in the Budget the amount of expenditure for the work of BiH institutions, literally it says in the Constitution and nothing else and for the service of international debt. It is not normal for me, but it also says in the Constitution and such and similar debates on the normality and abnormality of this state, I hope that we in this House's term will be able to speak, but it is certainly not this point of the agenda. In this context, I would not make a contribution to the expansion of this debate, and I will remind you of what the Presidency said in its accompanying act, and it said it would guide this draft budget to be met, and that is exactly what it says, and we can only decide whether we will support the Presidency's request to meet the IMF's request or not. In the presence of the HDZ Club and the Democratic Coalition, I propose that we support this request from the Presidency, we propose that we adopt the text of the Budget in that text as delivered to us and I support the Commission's conclusion on the Budget which proposed that within 60 days, this could be before, but no later than 60 days, a new Council of Ministers' Assembly shall do and propose to the Presidency the rebalancing of this Budget and the Presidency shall provide us with the rebalancing of the Budget within that deadline.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6602	Thank you, Mr. Lozančić. Ambassador Sead Avdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6603	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, respected members of the Council of Ministers, dear guests, I, too, would like to say a few words about a strategy of four years in order to act primarily on the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Council of Ministers, 22 or the Government of BiH, etc. from the aspect of establishing sincere, responsible partner relations with the international community. I mean, first of all, the IMF institution. Therefore, in this context, I propose that in the next 60 days, as proposed by the Finance and Budget Commission, the new Council of Ministers, or the Government of BiH, prepare itself objectively, I would say, measures of economic policy that will act on the terms and requirements of the IMF. What is in the domain of the BiH Constitution. In that context, in this memo that we signed in August of the month o.g. to review the possibility of redefining certain, simple items, or the conditions that the IMF has set before BiH, in particular from the aspect of blocking the privatisation funds, which are made impossible, simply, encouraging development, or simply forming a fund for restructuring and development of BiH, or simply slowing down in the domain of social policy, etc. That's one suggestion. Two, just, too, so I don't go out again. Given that this is both first and second reading, practically, in one discussion and that there is simply no amendment phase, I suggest that in the next 60 days, the Council of Ministers, or Governments, re-examine the items, in particular contractual services which, in my personal opinion, are the ultimate pre-amendance that is more than 5 million and 800,000 KM and, simply know what it means under contract services, and simply the figures suggest that, simply the Institute of Measurement, intellectual property pleads with 272,000 Foreign Ministry with 2 million and 500. What I know is the Communications Regulatory Agency needs 110 grand. The presidency needs 318 thousand, a CIPS project 479, and so on. You know well that it is realised through an act contract. In that sense, it would also be necessary to fully regulate this item and re-evaluate the second item, it is a project to fight poverty, cost us this year 765,000 KM no man has hired, no family is cared for and we are doing projects in the fight against poverty. I think it is high time that the new BiH government reconsiders this project and really finally responds to what this project is aimed at. I have been on the discussion, at sessions, simply in this context, I still don't understand what the objective of this project is and which we are fighting poverty through the project route and we are only giving 765,000 marks this year and I think it is high time to reconsider it and that, suddenly, BiH, as I received assurances, is not financing this project, however, in Budget it is funding it. Three, there are no institutions in Budget that have been found, simply, the Dayton Agreement, the Institute of Health Protection, and then you have the Department of Geodetic Administration, etc. The vital functions of BiH, especially the Office for Geodetic Administration, are not available in the Budget and simply is not in the Budget, and there is simply no institution at BiH level. It would be high time to initiate the adoption of the laws of these two institutions, to simply declare the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, about, simply, the foundations of these institutions that have been established by the Dayton Agreement, they are legal and legitimate in that regard. So, once again, I ask you to make a strategy of economic policy by the government of BiH and call it what you will, measures of economic policy, which will be adopted by the conditions of macroeconomic policy, which are dictated by the IMF and in this context try to redefine the requirements partly in partnership, the single IMF towards BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6604	Thank you, Mr. Avdić. Do any of the MPs want to speak? If no one wants to, I conclude the debate and can only yet give the word to Minister Domazet to look back, if he considers it necessary to have some talks and, certainly, try to answer the questions asked by esteemed colleagues. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6605	Thank you. I'll try to make it as short as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6606	And as short as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6607	I think this discussion shows that the proposed budget ensures that institutions function in the following year and that they function until the time of rebalancing. I don't want to be some pessimist, but when we were coming, the previous government also adopted the Budget and said let the new implement the rebalancing. We did it before the New Year 2002. I think this budget allows institutions to function, that the right debate and policy should be established by the new council of ministers. I'd like to give the next answer to the questions asked. The internal debt, it is the biggest problem of BiH's macroeconomic stability. He does not know what he is, because it depends on what the legal basis is and how he will eventually be defined in the discussions. If you admit war damage, then you'll have billions and billions, if you don't admit you'll have something less. Work estimates are that it is somewhere around 100% of BiH's social product, i.e. 10 billion marks. However, in the following year, according to the Stand Bay arrangement, this problem should be solved through one comprehensive action and you will be active participants in the process. CER, what agent Mr. Munib has set up and I want to answer openly, therefore, without any hiding. The CRA is an agency that was born by OHR. It has been passed on to us in the jurisdiction of the new telecommunications law. We started control over it for the first time in 2002, now we've done an essential takeover, visible proof is what you have in your budget that the salaries of these central regulatory agencies have been reduced by 20%. As the first measure on the way of a reasonable wage balance, because it is eaten to have salaries when they are provided by someone else, and the second is to have them when they are provided by the BiH budget. As far as grenades are concerned, I don't think we can develop new institutions unless we secure grants and donations, and this will certainly be worked much more intensively despite what we've already included in the budget. The data I presented on the external debt, the new external dig, please gentlemen, bear in mind that this is the period of 96-2002, not the time of the Council of Ministers' term of office, but the post-Dayton period. Finally, to say that you have a budget in front of you, indeed, and not what is in the discussion, especially from fellow Špirić, was disputed. You have a budget that has several key elements. Legal constitutional basis, income structure, expenditure structure, policies followed by it, then, macroeconomic implications of such a budget, you have management, i.e. The management of that budget and you have control of one. These are all important elements that show that you are adopting the right thing, not a cat in a sack, and we can only be dissatisfied and extremely dissatisfied with the fact that it is a budget based on some amount of revenue. This is a budget that, on occasion, covers only 2% of the social product, i.e. a smaller, miniature 24 part of the country's public expenditure. 64% are BiH's public expenditure. The budget you have here covers only 2%. Therefore, the great responsibility is, in fact, at other levels of government and I believe that open problems in today's debate will, in fact, raise the question of how to ensure that we have original revenues at the state level. Let me get this straight. We get a lot with this budget. A number of institutions, which we have developed over the past period, have, I say, blood for their work and they will be able to go into operation, of course in different stages of their cycle. I'm saying again, some are in the mature phase, some are in the initial and some are just beginning, some are in the early stages, and some are just about to start working.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6608	I thank Mr. Secretary. We have in this way concluded, practical, discussion. You have a question. Mr. Hasan Muratović's question.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6609	I ask you to answer who is the founder of the Communications Regulatory Agency? As far as I know, no body of this state has ever established such an agency.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6610	I thank Mr. Muratović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6611	We have a Deputy Minister for Civil Affairs and Communications here.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6612	Mr. Lovrić, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6613	The Honorable Presidency, esteemed MPs, means, established, by the decision of the High Representative, the first independent media agency and the regulatory agency for telecommunications were formed. By the second decision of the High Representative, the two agencies were merged into one, so-called. CRA, so the shortened names themselves are the short names of the English name of these agencies, so today it functions as an independent CRA regulator, so on. Communications Regulatory Agency. She was after those decisions, her functioning was regulated by the telecommunications law. By declaring the new law declared by the High Representative of the Communications Act, it is therefore established and functioning and defined all the rules of functioning of that regulator and what Minister Domazet was saying is one of the agencies formed by the decisions of the High Representative, which enters the budget users. The income would be hers, so she's financed from the fees for doing her job. So these are fees for issuing permits and other activities and in some ways works to collect one other income that is directly income from the State budget, so these are fees for using radio frequency spectrum. So, from the situation where they were completely out of the budget users' system, they were involved last year, this year practically goes through the process and their position has not yet been balanced with the position of the largest part of the budget users. In addition, 25 of us have other agencies, which are also outside the budget users' system and their position is not balanced by other budget users. That's the situation right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6614	I thank Mr. Lovrić. I'm closing the debate now. So, I am concluding the debate definitely on the budget of BiH institutions and international obligations of BiH for 2003. We're moving on to a plea. I put the draft budget on a statement in the first reading. I invite you to speak out who's in favour by lifting your ballot cards. Who's in? Thank you. Can we move forward with the procedure? Do you mind? As far as I can tell, he's gone. Are there any abstentions? I'll keep you informed of the results of the vote. Of the 42 MPs present, I forgot to tell you that Mr Zorić came to Parliament in the meantime. So Parliament is in full capacity. 38 MPs voted yes. He wasn't an MP. Four MPs have been detained. In this situation, I declare there is no need to hold an entity vote. In this state of voting, I realize that we adopted the budget of BiH institutions and international obligations for 2003 in the first reading. We move immediately to this act and to debate the Budget in the second reading. You know that the debate on Budget in the second reading refers to the debate on amendments. We're up to this, so, a moment, please. We can only acknowledge those amendments that have been so far, which have been on the commission and being renewed. That's what you know. All those amendments that weren't on the commission and not being renewed are amendments that can't enter the debate here at home. The question even arises whether any amendments submitted to the budget and not submitted until the start of the debate, so they were submitted after the debate, can enter into competition, but since we do not know whether the amendment was submitted at the time before the debate here at this table or not, I suggest we discuss and then declare the amendments that have passed the commission phase were not adopted on the Commission and are then renewed here for the House. We only have two amendments like that and they're both from Mr. Nikola Špirić. We don't have any other amendments. We don't have any amendments. I said we would not discuss the amendments, because all those who have invested them should know that it is against the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of this House. So that's arranged by Article 94. Rules of Procedure. I, therefore, am opening a debate in the second reading, a debate on amendments. Mr Špirić, in fact, was already talking about these amendments when he spoke about the law in the debate after the first reading. That's why I've done that intervention, but here, that's what I hope he'll deny us now, or he'll save us time. I hope Mr. Špirić doesn't repeat what he was saying at the pay phone. So his amendment I says like this. On the draft budget of the BiH institutions, in the table review of revenue schedules by budget users, the regular number 2 in the table reduce the funds for the work of the BiH Presidency from 26 4,545,351 to 3,545,351 and increase the item under regular number 7. The Agency for Information and Protection from 5 million to 6 million KM. amandman ii says: Reduce funds under regular number 17. The Ministry of Euro-Special Integration, please just pay attention, from 2,031.725 to 1,531.725 KM and for the same amount to increase paragraph 4. BiH Election Commission from 1.600,000 KM to 2,100,000 KM. So these are the two amendments. I, on behalf of the House College, will ask Mr Špirić, if there is any chance that he will give up these amendments and then move on to a plea, to adopt the Budget in the text as we have received from the Proposer. If Mr. Špirić doesn't accept it, then there's nothing left for us to do but follow the business procedure. Are you staying, Mr. Špirić? I'm asking the MPs. I'm going to vote. You're looking for an amendment. Mr. Živković Milorad.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6615	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, let me express my dissatisfaction, because my two amendments that have now been proposed here have not entered the assembly procedure. In fact, I believe that this session has not been decided by the Rules of Procedure either, and we have not received the materials according to the Rules of Procedure, nor has this budget been passed through the Bureau and the Council of Ministers. For this reason, I do not see any haste that this Presidency has been expressing in the last two sessions over and over again, and therefore, if it is possible for these two amendments to enter the procedure, so that the SNSD Club would request a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6616	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Unfortunately, according to the Rules of Procedure, that is not possible. I invite you to respect the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6617	Dear fellow MPs, I will state the position of the SDS Club. In fact, we have had and we have a lot of objections to certain items in the budget, but, given the fact that we adopt this budget in this way, as we have already repeatedly mentioned here, we do not feel that it was necessary to enter with amendments, which relate to changes in certain items, because this is how we enter into a new procedure from which, I believe, the result is not seen, or even this real possibility that Budget is not adopted. As a result, the SDS Club and SDS MPs have not tabled amendments and will not support the amendment of other MPs for principle reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6618	I thank Mr. Novaković. Business intervention. Gosodine Špirić, you have a minute for business intervention. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6619	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I really don't see any reason why the session doesn't run normally and I don't see any reason why anyone, any club, binds the investment of amendments to any other party or any other club. We didn't adopt, so we won't vote. It's not like this is all about SDS and SDS. It is the right of MPs to propose amendments, such as the right of MPs to vote for or against. Well, I mean, really, this is a funny discussion, and at the very least it doesn't fit what's called an MP's right to make an amendment. Whether someone likes him or not, that's another thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6620	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. Mr. Novaković. I guess this is a replica at the business facility. I have to define it somehow, for a stenogram. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6621	I'd ask distinguished colleagues to listen to others when they talk and then replicate. Namely, I have not defiled any MPs the right to make an amendment here. I just said we wouldn't support it for principle reasons, so I ask my fellow Špirić to listen to others and not just himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6622	I thank Mr. Novaković. Anyone else want to talk about the amendments? Please, nice. I'm closing the debate and we're moving on to a plea by amendment. I ask you, who is it to accept amendment I by Mr Nikola Špirić to the BiH institutions' draft budget and international commitments for 2003. I've informed you of the contents of that amendment and you have it in front of you. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? So, the results of the 41 vote that he voted on -- one MP left us in the meantime 6 voted in favour -- 26 voted against -- abstentioned 8. I konstatuj that the amendment and Mr Nikola Špirić did not receive the necessary parliamentary majority. We move to a plea under amendment II of Mr. Nikola Špirić. I've introduced you to the content of this amendment. I ask you who's in favour of that amendment? Who's in? Who's against it? Just a little attention, please. This is the result of this debate. She was paying attention when it was a debate. Let's be careful when we vote not to make a mistake. Abstained? I would like to inform you of the results of the vote under Amendment II to Mr Špirić. Out of the 41 MPs who voted 5 voted in favour, 26 voted -- 10 and 28 were abstentions, I find that Amendment II, Mr Nikola Špirić, did not receive the necessary parliamentary majority. We're moving on to a statement on Budget in general. So, as suggested by the Bureau. I'm asking you who's in? May I have your attention, please? Don't argue with each other without this pay phone over here. Can they lift up the file of those who are against it? Do you mind? I don't mind. Are there any abstentions? I would like to inform you that the results of the vote are as follows: Of the 41 MPs who voted 37 voted in favour – there were no MPs against it and four MPs were co-chaired and I am announcing that there is no need for this result of the entity statement vote and I am announcing that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives adopted the Budget of BiH institutions and international commitments for 2003 in the text that it received it from the BiH Presidency. This is how we finished the first item of the agenda. I'm thanking you. There is also a need to make clear about a conclusion that could often be heard here in the debates of MPs at the speaker. Finally, it is the proposal and the Commission, and I would like to associate it with the official proposal of the Finance Commission and the Budget, which has been supported by many MPs and many participants in today's debate. Mr. Beriz Belkić is asking for a word on this proposal. Here you go, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6623	In order not to remain undefined, Mr. Novaković went out and intervened on this report. We have all seen members of the Commission here on the table and it is true that there are certain things that we have agreed on the Commission and are not in the report. That's exactly what this is for the Budget Act when we talk about it, and we'll recommend it. However, I want to be precise. We said there that within 60 days of the election of the new council of ministers, to provide drebalans of Budget, we also discussed that this House of Representatives should be provided with documents related to the memorandum of understanding with the IMF and a report on the monitoring of the implementation of the Stand Bay arrangement so far, etc. This remains, of course, under the obligation to receive a report on the execution of the budget for 2002. These are essentially the Commission's conclusions and Mr. Novaković's interventions to keep us out of the loop.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6624	Well, I thank Mr. Belkić. So I will now try to define the conclusion given by the Commission and which has been clarified by the person authorised to present the Commission at today's session. So the conclusion is: 1. That the newly elected Council of Ministers is in charge of proposing within 60 days of the date of its entry into office the rebalancing of the BiH Budget for 2003 and 2. That Parliament, and then we within Parliament can do so according to MPs, deliver a document called the Memorandum of Understanding and the monitoring report on the Stand Bay arrangement, which would be those two points. 29 3. To provide Parliament with a report on the implementation of the budget for 2002, it is an obligation, but here if the Commission so requests, I think we can put it in order not to complicate things. Of course, Mr. Lagumdžija's work and justice will certainly take it upon himself. That's what we already have on us, and don't make our own commitments here. It will be granted that conclusion, as this should not be delivered to us by the Council of Ministers or by any other of the executive authorities. I'm asking you who's in favor of this conclusion that has these four points? Mr. Špirić. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? I find that at this point, we are in an O.R. 40 that all 40 votes are this conclusion, that there are no objectors and that there are no abstentions and I realize that we unanimously adopted this conclusion. We're a team, I hope we've exhausted such a 1st agenda. We're moving to agenda number two. Ad.2. The draft law on the implementation of the budget of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2003 has not yet been reported by the Constitutional and Legal Commission in writing. It's split, I'm sorry. That's the kind of notice I've got. So, you've been given the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission as well as the Commission's Finance and Budget report. What about the report? So we haven't received a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission. I call on the commission's authorised representative to come out for a pay phone and address Parliament. So tell me I know what we got.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6625	Mr. Chairman, I think that at the outset one thing should be clarified, which obviously has led us here to the position that the members of the House do not have a written report or better to say at this stage in writing, which, according to the interpretation of the professional services, is delivered to the Chairman of the House, because Budget and this law, so to speak, according to that interpretation, are not of the Commission's fundamental competence and that, as this Commission should assess the ustavno-pravni and legal basis, it delivers such an opinion in writing to the chair and that issues from its jurisdiction as well as other competent working body delivers the report. I have to say when I took my word that I have a bit of a reserve on this interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, but at this point, maybe, it doesn't matter. So, the thing is the next one. I signed a written opinion by the chairman of the House on the existence of a constitutional basis for the adoption of a law on the execution of the Budget. I don't know what's the reason it hasn't been delivered to you all and I don't even know if it's like the chairman or the college of this house. But we will certainly on the commission this issue of consideration, therefore, the application of the Rules of Procedure and in which form is being notified to this House and who everything, whether and when only the chairman, whether and when and when all the members of the House discuss and hopefully take a constructive position, of course in the interest of all MPs to be informed of the views of this committee. 30 Since we have not yet heard, I have not understood that the opening statement of the Minister of Resistance was also a statement on the proposal for a law on the execution of the Budget. I think it might be better if we first heard an explanation from the promoter and then the commission gave its opinion. But all of a sudden, I'm just gonna say for a minute that I'm not lying to you right now and I'm not convincing what you didn't get in writing. The Commission has found constitutionally-legislative that the proposing and this law are properly called upon to the constitutional basis that you have in the light of the law, that is one thing, I do not quote further. The second thing was the debate on the committee of certain opinions that certain items, individual members, etc. Even, maybe they're not even in line with the Constitution. The Commission did not deal with this in detail, but pointed out in its report to you, i.e. in the opinion of the Chairman-in-Office of the House, that, counting on the budget rebalancing and, of course, the amendments and additions and the law on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institutions for 2003 should pay particular attention to a provision that says that capital investment borrowing can be carried out after the Council of Ministers' approval. The position of the commission's members that capital investment borrowings should be with the consent of this parliament, therefore, of the House of Representatives and, of course, the second home in the appropriate procedure. This is one of the questions that has been raised and there have been a number of other issues, but, given the conditions under which we are discussing this law today, I do not think it is necessary to enter these details, unless some other members of the Constitutional and Legal Committee here think that today, in this unexplained situation of the written report, I should, possibly, enter a broader report on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6626	Thank you, Mr. Ćeman. So there's no dilemma. There's no dilemma in the Rules of Procedure. You are a committee that tells us whether something is in front of us in a debate based on the BiH Constitution or not. You said that, and it's perfectly normal and logical, it's a generally known thing that the Law and Budget have constitutional basis, that they have constitutional basis. You're not the competent commission to come in. This has been a practice so far, and there is no dilemma in this regard in any solution. You can, so, but it's not your obligation, it's the responsibility of the committee in charge. This is the Commission for Finance and Budget in this case. I'd ask, I didn't get this report, here's a few times I talked to Secretary Dom. I haven't gotten that report yet. I'm asking the sekretarijat to see what's going on with the report. Please, the president of the SDS Club Mr. Novaković is asking for a 15-minute break and I am taking a 15-minute break from the Rules of Procedure. Well, of course, in the meantime, that report should be shared. Please continue exactly 15 to 2. I ask the Secretariat and the professional services of the aobaviest Members to enter the O.R. to proceed with our work. [[PAUZA]] We're going back to work. In line with the Rules of Procedure, since this is why we took a break, I am informing you that we have received the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee on the Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2003 and that this opinion, also, according to the Rules of Procedure, has been delivered to me as chairman, because I, as chairman, need to get this from the Constitutional and Legal Commission. The problem was that Parliament's services were taken to my desk in the office and they didn't bring it here in the O.R. and I was 31 in the O.R. in the meantime. So that was all the trouble. Everything you've heard in Mr. Ćeman's statement is contained in this opinion and I don't need to read it to you. We're moving on. I am now giving my word to the Commissioner for Finance and Budget to Mr Beriz Belkić to take the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6627	Mr President, fellow Members, that I am not taking up time in the report is the current and content of the debate on this law, and I propose that, since both reports reiterate the same conclusions that the conclusion, relating to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget for 2003, only refers to the fact that this law in the process of consideration, the need to adopt a rebalancing of the Budget, is also subject to changes which are considered necessary and that is what we have concluded today on the Commission on this law and we propose that the House of Representatives adopt the law in unchanged text in relation to the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6628	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. This is a debate about the Budget Act in the first reading. We're discussing principles. Minister Domazet referred to both points of the agenda in a sum exposé in his presentation at parliament. Do any of the MPs want to talk about the principles of this law? Who does? Mr. Špirić. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6629	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed fellow Members, distinguished guests, I, of course, am also bound by the budget projection law for 2003 and the budget implementation law decidedly read and it seems to me that in this country everything should have been transparent. There's no reason they shouldn't be like that. In that sense, I think, to draw attention to certain principles relating to individual members, in that sense I was free and defined my amendments which were the subject of the debate on the committees in charge, and I hope that there will also be an object of a statement of MPs at today's session. But what would be good and what I would like, regardless of the business restrictions that the Constitutional and Legal Commission report is, if it was written which was given to the chairman that they also received MPs, because nothing can be changed in that report, but it would be good to be, therefore, it serves one thing among other things to be familiar with during the talks on the Constitutional and Legal Commission. I would like to draw the attention of MPs to Article 18 of the principles based on which the member is a satanic member of 18 he refers to the funds of the budget reserves and is said to be the first indent, to finance external expenditure and programmes not covered by the budget of the BiH institutions and, of course, it can be defined as part of the budget reserves. Second indent, to finance the costs of international disputes and arbitration. This indent may be woven in the previous or must be a regular item in the Budget, because internationally slow you and arbitration are the most difficult disputes that the dwarves lead, for which preparation must be known, for which they must receive funds in time and they must not be hidden in budget reserves, at least not good. Are we ready to open a political dispute and say what it is from international disputes and arbitration in front of the BiH state and what it will cost the country. Not to be a permanent object of the controversy and politics of the highest state officials, so someone says it's not something contained, like, a lawsuit. Mr. Zlatko said that 32 The presidency decided not to be in the budget reserve, and a member of Mr. Tihic's presidency in Banja Luka when he discussed it said, you know, it's in the budget reserve. So, I can't have some things about the state being a matter of politics and deliberately pushing into the budget reserve. The budget reserve is a serious item. The budget reserve cannot be a matter of individual assessment of the use of any minister, but must be a matter of consensus. It can't be a flood over my aunt's field that's an elemental disaster, but people have to make a deal. It can't finance the club, for me it can be important for BiH, for someone less important. So, there are things from the budget reserve that we have to reach a maximum consensus on, and that is why I was prepared to suggest that transfers of funds from the budget reserves can only be made on the basis of the Council of Ministers' special decisions, which are made by consensus. That's the thing that pleases. That we don't open up politics, the polemics of these or those. But if it stays like this, I can assure you that this country will never get out of a bad political story and none of it will benefit. The question is, why are we doing this as serious people? The other thing is principles, relating to Article 27 where it's said. In order to maintain the liquidity of the budget of the BiH institutions, the BiH Council of Ministers is empowered to decide on short-term loans from the entity or banking sources, in line with their payments during the fiscal year 2003. Where is Parliament here? The struggle for the right of Parliament and MPs to decide is mukotrpan. If we give the Council of Ministers the right to be in charge of the banks against the Budget, then what will Parliament do? Any mandate of the Budget Council should be approved by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Why are we running? You know that we've shot down three times and I can't, believe me, have one attitude towards the previous Council of Ministers and the other to the one that will come. The Council of Ministers essentially requested that it have a parallel budget of 320 million where Parliament has no authority whatsoever. I am against this role of Parliament and MPs, and as long as I sit here, I will fight for the right of Parliament and MPs, and it must be quite tarantically, and that is why I have proposed an amendment and, of course, one principle that is incorporated into criminal provisions. A violation is a provision. Says the fine from 500 to 1000 KM will be fined, etc. 1. If budget funds are not used for the purposes established by the budget and this law and if the creation of expenditure commitments above the budget, this is a criminal offence. This is a violation. Spending funds not prescribed by the budget above is a felony, and we are in violation of 500 marks, and therefore in this country we have a story that 800 million or a billion are out of the budget and no one has a criminal record. I'm here to improve these principles. In that sense, I have defined amendments that are principled and not multitic, and I expect support on these amendments in order to make a positive statement about the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6630	Okay, Mr. Špirić, you've talked about the amendments again, not the principles, but, look, you've probably saved us time for this second part of the debate. Mr. Novaković, Momčilo.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6631	Dear colleagues, I am also on the commission and through my amendment the club has disputed one principle, or suggested that it also has the funds of the reserve in a different way. 33 In fact, we felt that in these 60 days there was no need to spend the funds of the reserve, so if there was no need, then we did not see the need to regulate it in the way it was regulated. So, since it will look quite different after these 60 days and then in that sense we have defined the amendment that we asked for the first four indents, that is, from this part, that is, the purpose of the reserve funds is not now defined but to do so after 60 days. I would pray, indeed, also, not to return, but I will ask that in the conclusions, so when you, Mr. Chairman, define this conclusion of the commission, in the manner agreed there, means that this is clearly about the law, therefore, within 60 days that this law is also passed along with the rebalancing.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6632	I thank Mr. Novaković. Does anyone else want to talk about principles? Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6633	I thank the chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members, concerning the discussion of counterparts Špirić and Novaković, I will remind you that Article 18 says that the funds of the budget reserve can be used, so a purpose is defined which is normally defined by the law on the implementation of the budget, and in point 2 is said that transfers of funds from the budget reserves can only be realised on the basis of specific decisions of the Council of Ministers. So, fellow Špirić, on your instructions that you should possibly define a decision to be made by the Council of Ministers, that is already said here.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6634	Please don't get into each other's words.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6635	Decision-making in the Council of Ministers should not be specified by the law on the execution of the Budget. He was passed by the Council of Ministers Act. Secondly, in the part of your discussion concerning short-term loans, it seems to me that you are calling for Article 27, which says: In order to maintain the liquidity of the Budget, the liquidity of the Budget, the Council of Ministers is empowered to make decisions on short-term loans from the entity or banking sources, in line with the possibilities for their repayment during the fiscal year. Article 2 of this same article says: The debts under this basis must be in line with the conditions set out in the letter of intent with the amendments, an additional memorandum on economic and financial policies signed for 2003 between the IMF and BiH and two entities, respectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6636	I thank you, too, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. Mr. Špirić has the right to reply to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6637	Ladies and gentlemen, I allow my colleague Azra to discuss in a double role because the Council of Ministers is still in the technical mandate and as Minister and as an MP, but we are Parliament and it would be very good to get away with the role of Parliament, because I am fighting for Parliament's right and, of course, I am legalist and respect all the bodies of this country. So Parliament's right to control. You said the Council of Ministers Act was imposed. I've got that law on my desk. Nikola Špirić will never come out here to read anything, be sure and not this, I said in the way we try to spend budget reserves on politics, which is what keeps bringing this country back. Do we have the strength to open the debate or not? So that's the problem, and I think we should remain a consensus on the budget reserves. I'm not talking in my head. Because that's what's involved in the last session so nothing happens to serve in pre-election campaigns to these or those, and there's no people, they don't have any of that. So, I insist on it. It is the right for MPs to say we are against, as is the second amendment. If we allow the Council of Ministers to be in charge of the budget year commercially, without the decision and consent of this Parliament, this task of who knows how short-term it can be 30 million, and that is a sign that we also allow the Council of Ministers to make that get in the budget. Whether or not we will. Therefore, it is irrelevant now who will act as a council of ministers, but it is important that as a State Parliament we take part in our responsibility. It'll be easy if the Council of Ministers makes a mistake and tell me we have no obligation. I want to have it and help with this advice to assess whether it is good to be in charge in the short term, and you know short-term duties are not on the same terms and interest, so now that BiH's rule of law exists, the minister of vaults because gold has been in prison for BiH at the worst time rather than on the loose. It's pride for us if this country loses more than 20 million marks. Let's get this story going. With all due respect to the individuals of the people of the parties. That's why I suggested amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6638	Time's up for the replica, Mr. Špirić. Thank you. Mr. Shymir has a word. Discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6639	Ladies and gentlemen, we're done in the first part, so when we talk about Butdžet, and now we're talking about the Budget Implementation Act, we're talking about the principle that we can change something quality through legal standards. Mr. Špirić, with his amendment, clearly offered such a quality solution. I would ask the MPs, and because of the openness and honesty of this Parliament, that the issue of consensus in Article 18, where the powers of the Council of Ministers, i.e. by means of resources, and among other things under 2) also have the financing of international disputes, should be respected, because if we are honest with each other, why does someone flee from the principle of consensus on this matter. If BiH is a country of consensus, otherwise as a whole. Secondly, as regards Article 27, the proposal also goes to both homes if someone wants to be in charge on some basis, which means there is no possibility that the Council of Ministers can be entrusted without this parliament. This again means the principle that parliamentary control should cover all segments of social life in one country, and in this case it will not be so and it will be broken. Whether this House of Representatives can take on itself to break the basic rule of parliamentary democracy. That's why I'm asking you to keep that in mind 35 that you don't need to watch where the proposal comes from which individual and which party and which club. If he is correct, if he is in the spirit of parliamentary democracy, if he preserves the dignity of MPs and this Parliament, he should be supported, no matter where he came from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6640	I thank Mr. Gligorić. Mr. Beriz Belkić asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6641	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of Parliament, I've been seeing most of the MPs all along, and we've stuck to the principle of doing our job today and respecting the IMF's request. However, things are already slowly getting out of that principle and I want to say the following, apro for honesty. As a number of MPs sincerely seek to eliminate any possibility of funding international disputes and arbitration, to be precise, BiH's dispute against Yugoslavia. You must respect that one significant number of Members supports this. We have reached a degree of compromise on this issue, which has also been transposed into this year's law on enforcement. These amendments that we are discussing here are in the direction of the collapse of this level of compromise that was achieved in this assembly in the last term. So, I would like to say that the BiH Party MPs will absolutely not support the change of solutions given in the Budget Implementation Act, and especially those that leave the theoretical possibility to finance BiH's dispute against Yugoslavia. Apro for honesty.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6642	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. Is, Mr. Paravac, the first deputy chairman looking for a word. Here you go. Paravac Borislav.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6643	Dear Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, I would like to give my review of the Budget Act. It seems to me that the debate leads to a solution to one problem, which is the transfer of power from the legislative authority to executive power. Article 15, which was disputed cannot, is in collegiate with Articles 27 and 30. It can't cost 15 and 27 and 30. The first position says for the implementation of the capital investment programme, beneficiaries of the budget can be credited with the agreement of the Council of Ministers. He can't go with the Council of Ministers. Because Article 30 says it can only be owed with special procedures with the consent of the Parliamentary Assembly. Article 27 allows what is disputed here to be settled during one calendar year, i.e. during one financial year, if it is necessary to temporarily borrow, and should not be disputed in the course of that financial year. Neither Article 26 corresponds to the Law and the principles of budgetary financing, since budget expenditure includes expenditure relating to the realisation of capital expenditures and specific programmes for which additional revenue sources are provided outside the scope of the budget established for 2003. It can't be like that. It has to be covered in Budget and no other way. The second part of my remarks is about the budget reserve debate here. The budget reserve, let's say, is the necessary and the level of the budget reserve is vice-proportional to the degree of bias of the Budget and the degree of democracy of a duity. So, the bigger the budget reserve, the smaller the transparency and vice versa and democracy. 36 The question of the level of the 3.5 million budget reserve with the possibility of increasing more than 6 million revenues achieved tells us that this budget reserve can be made by this law we allow it far, far greater to exceed the funding of some ministries in the Council of Ministers. Therefore, this is our thing to determine the budget reserve given the way in which the joint bodies are financed that everything is precise. The budget reserve in these conditions should be minimal. Now, that makes it even more complicated, with regard to how the budget reserve is spent. I have always represented the thesis that the budget reserve can only be spent on those items listed in the Budget and which are largely insufficient. That's what tax collection is about. For those who have given votes to us messengers have given us the right to debate by means of those taxes which they have paid in the budget, and no one has the right to pass it on to anyone else. Therefore, it must be precise, which is why I support fellow MPs who question the budget reserve, because our budget reserve can be a stumbling block in this House. I would also add this to the fact that in the next member, which speaks of reporting, I do not think it is a member of the 32nd, it is not clear how and how this Parliament will be given a report on how the budget reserve is spent. I would just say to those who think they won't change this law will change it, because Article 33 and Article 34 contains the wrong provision, because it's not about Article 31. It's about Article 32. So we need to change this law, because if we're not going to translate it as a technical error. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6644	I thank Mr. Paravac. Who else wants to talk? If you do, Mr. Novaković wants a word. Here you go. I'm sorry, I think Mr. Munib Jusufović called earlier, but I didn't see it, so here if you agree...
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6645	I will only make a brief proposal, given that I have, in fact, I see that most MPs express a reserve according to these principles that we have brought out here from the SDS, it is obvious that others do not think that in the way we think it, which can bring this parliament into a very awkward position when it comes to the vote of this law, and given its obligation. I suggest that after the debate, I now speak as a member of the Expanded College, after the debate, that one pause again and that the College in an extended composition sits down and we see how to get out of this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6646	Thank you. Mr. Munib Jusufović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6647	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would only talk here about one segment, and it seems to me that the representatives of the Serb people, mostly here, as I say, are heading in the same direction. Two questions, then, are controversial. The question of the reserve and the question of the authority to be given in the case of borrowing. I'll just say a little bit about the reserve. 37 I think the Council of Ministers in this text has given itself a headache, better said that it has entered into a detailed specification of the reserve. Nothing illogical, but in a certain way they listed all that and maybe it's good at applying it. There is nothing illogical and it is to me, since the law on the RS budget and the Federation is known. I am surprised that, from now on, where these are texts which are, after all, in all the legal texts that regulate the budget, i.e. the budget and entities and the budget of the canton and municipalities, there is, after all, one provision that says that the reserves are used for unplanned and unplanned costs and are exclusively available by the executive authority, i.e. the authority of the executive authority, and in this case, it is the Council of Ministers by procedure. When it comes to entities, then it's governments, when it comes to cantons, then it's the government and when it comes to the municipal level, it's the head of government. That's very clear. However, here is something else, and since we are calling for honesty, as counterpart Belkić said, then once again, let's get this thing naked. It's not the essence of the reserves as defined here. Here, I understand, and you have to make it clear that the essence of one item that says that international arbitration and dispute procedures are financed from the reserve, is better said to further dissipate what is thought to be, at least that is how it is indicated here that, among other things in the powers, there is also a lawsuit before the International Court of Justice in The Hague. It is illogical for me to require and insist that this law that regulates the issue of the Budget Law, i.e. the Budget, be inserted into the provisions governed by the Council of Ministers Act, is, after all, unnecessary. So that's where it's regulated. This is what Minister Azra already said, it's regulated and why it needs to be repeated. Then tell me that's it. Eh, now, what's on the dream, what would you say? Mr. Belkić said what the party's position is for BiH and there is absolutely nothing controversial about us, and you say it is controversial for you, but you cannot say it is not in accordance with the law. This is a legal provision that is very simple and clear. So, you don't need to attack the law, but you should clearly say that you're against it, and normally it's your legitimate right, just like our right to say that we are because, but I don't think we should have, at all, regulated it like this, but should have left the one principle that is in all the laws and has the right of the Council of Ministers, as an executive authority to use the reserves. Not to go into this second question, too, is in all the laws that the Council of Ministers has the right to borrow, in accordance with the procedure. However, perhaps the goal here, here I am, so far, when I catch some coordinates of the opposition, I might be supporting my fellow Špirić now, but this time for neither one, then we're not really principled, because we discussed these issues differently when we were in that conference, and I was also Mr. Špirić and so on. So I think this is quite logical, and as far as my attitude and attitude are concerned, you can do whatever you want. I'd rather be clear right now to put it in, to fund a lawsuit against Yugoslavia in front of the International Court, and I don't think it should have been hidden, that should stand. If you want, that's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6648	I thank Mr. Jusufović. Mrs. Seada Paravlić and let Mrs. Azra Hadžiahmetović be prepared. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6649	Allow me, on behalf of the Party of Democratic Action, to present the same proposal as when we discussed the Budget Proposal, and therefore I propose that this law on the implementation of the Budget for 2003 be adopted without amendments, as well as the Budget, with the same deadline as it is said that the rebalancing of the Budget will be made and the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of the budget and that we see, in that period, any disagreements that exist now. Also, this new law, the law on amendments and additions contains the right explanation, because let me, I didn't have time to inform myself, but it seems to me that the obligation of 2% of the budget to be a budget reserve and that the existing reserve is less than the one the law provides. Let me say I think so. On the other hand, the comments on Articles 33 and 34 are indeed legally technical and are clearly well-ordered in them, but it seems that, that the proposer was referring to Article 32. Proposal for a budget law. Furthermore, please, each of us knows that the budget reserve is planned for those needs that are not planned or planned at insufficient amounts. Let us not go back. Let this Parliament really go forward and lead this country and fulfill what the citizens have chosen us for. By changing now what the funds of the budget reserve will be spent on, we will not stop any international dispute, nor should we stop it. I think it is in everyone's interest that the disputes that have started end and that the relevant authority ends it and that it will be easier for us all and let's not forget that already in most parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the citizens' foundations have already formed. So the most ordinary citizens are ready to finance Bosnia and Herzegovina's lawsuit against Yugoslavia. And let's not go back to that problem and make our lives miserable. So we can't stop that lawsuit, nor should we stop it. The relevant authority should decide on her. And let's not open up to every document that comes before us again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again Let's build trust. Because there's no funding for an agent to co-operate with The Hag. And he's being asked. There is, but in a small amount and very questionable, it is very uncertain to fund it. So let's not. What we're trying to do today is politicize. Let's not politicize. Let's let this country go ahead and let the citizens live better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6650	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6651	I thank the chairman. I'll try to remind you briefly, although it might be logical that the Treasury, or the RES, came out here with clarifications. Article 15, which allows for the realisation of capital investment lines, short-term credit borrowing with the agreement of the Council of Ministers, is one of the usual mechanisms of behaviour and state entities as well as economic operators. Therefore, I repeat the possibility of borrowing and repeat again in line with the position of 2nd of this same member who says that restrictions exist in the memorandum of economic policies. This means that no budget user can be charged outside the framework and the time and quantitative, i.e. measures and restrictions given and defined by the memorandum. 39 Member of the 18th, which relates to budget reserves and tax counts of opportunities, says among other things - to finance the costs of international disputes and arbitration. No specific disputes and arbitration are mentioned here, although it could be recognised from the discussion the point of not agreeing on any dispute in this Parliament over concrete international disputes, or possible arbitration. I'll remind you it's not the only one or the dispute or the only arbitration. In the coming period, we may have other disputes. We have had recent incident situations concerning this, which can cause possible international disputes caused by entities, entities, individual entities within Bosnia and Herzegovina, where Bosnia and Herzegovina as an entity under international law appears in a possible international dispute. In addition, some ad hoc arbitration is possible where there is a need for perhaps a short-term rapid response to state institutions. And that is why I suggest that we stay out of this and that there should be any point of dispute, because for any possible disputed point of decision on such funding, it is within the scope of the Council of Ministers. Perhaps both some of you and those who dispute such a formulation will be sitting here tomorrow in the executive office, may be Minister of the trezor, or anyone in the Council of Ministers who will participate in making such decisions. Furthermore, article 26 says -- in financing the expenditure of budget users, I think counterpart Novaković has called for this order of priorities. The following priorities are identified here. Whether these are priorities or possibly others, this Parliament, or the other Council of Ministers' assembly, may also take the Presidency, or refer to this House some different priorities that may reflect the changed policies. My colleague Domazet, my colleague Lagumdžija, has pointed out on several occasions today, and I think it is clear here that this budget, therefore the Law on the implementation of the budget, is based on unchanged policies. Which doesn't mean there won't be any priorities tomorrow. I would personally agree with the SDA's proposal to adopt this law with perhaps these technical corrections in article 34, which calls for Article 32, because it is an integral part of the package. The policy changes are quite different ways of behaviour and budgetary users and everything else will be subject to discussion very soon within two months of the formation and new Council of Ministers' cry and will certainly be part of a package of adoption of a new budget or of an eventual change of policies. It would therefore propose that this law or the bill be adopted as part of the budget package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6652	I thank Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. Mr. Gligorić Tihomir has asked for words for the second time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6653	First, I would like to warn Parliament, or MPs, that we can, by legal norm in the law, allow the executive power in this case, the Council of Ministers, to be in a position to cover the work of the BiH institution for something objectively by ISO standards, I do not know whether they are installed here, because this is the possibility of a legal norm to install ISO standards when it comes to budget. Are we keeping an eye on this and whether we're going to come to each other's collapsing here to give cover for executive power and to have a break-up with the Office or the Main Audit Service? Because their reports on institutions, ministries, the Presidency and other beneficiaries of the budget will be discussed. That's what I don't think you're taking care of. That's why it should be particularly emphasized. 40 Second, when we talk about the Budgetary Reserve, the Audit Service clearly requires that all items must be precisely decidently indicated which amount and which item is concerned. It can't be a well without a bottom, so grab all the water you want. And another thing that keeping an eye on these means, budgets, and when we say here that the law said that it could be 2% of the total budget, of 530 million etc. and it becomes questionable, because it is only one argument by the executive authority that needs to fraternize us here these MPs and that we simply support something so that they have the opportunity to dispose and take over that part of the authority that needs to be in Parliament. Perhaps I too would behave if you were chairman of the Council of Ministers tomorrow, so I'd better trick you into getting the funds, to have them and, of course, share a few million at my discretion. Therefore, the tendency to exercise power is always to make the budget reserve a part of the budget that strengthens the position of the executive authority and ministries and the chairman himself. You can't say that's not true. It's a constant tendency. As much as that fits the standards I was talking about, you gentlemen take responsibility for yourself when tomorrow comes from the Office of Audit here a report in which, instead of civil society, this is Parliament, as a parliamentary control that has to put everything into office to be transparent and that is the only thing it decides, it comes to a situation where it has bound its own hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6654	I thank Mr. Gligorić. Does anyone else want to talk? If he doesn't want anyone, we had a proposal. Mr. Potočnik is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6655	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs. Since there is obvious mistrust on both sides, I do not know if it is legally possible to do so, I propose that this law be adopted today with importance until 30.12, and that by 30.12 it be done to build up this law and balance the relationship between the legislative and executive authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6656	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6657	I mean that way if I could just explain because, in that way, if it's legally possible, there's no danger of someone being paroled, because that law applies to the 2003 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6658	I thank Mr. Potočnik. Who else wants to talk? Are there actually more interested people? We had a request for Mr. Novaković's break. I'm taking a break here for 10 minutes. All right, how much? Okay, I'm taking a break for 30 minutes. Here's a 30-minute break request. I call on representatives of political parties who have MP clubs to come here for this table. 41 /PAUZA 30 MINUTES / Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament continue to work. The break is as usual, though I don't like it to happen that way, and I would ask that we really follow the deadlines that we set as break deadlines about 15 minutes ago, but here's what's there. So we keep working. SDS Club President Mr. Momčilo Novaković asked for a break. Is there a need to address the House or not? Let him decide. After a break, it's like that in the Rules of Procedure. He has the word Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6659	Dear colleagues, MPs, we have analysed the amendments during the break and immediately to say that we have also analysed the Law, imposed the Council of Ministers Act. In view of above all of Article 18, which in a third position provides both Serbian MPs' interests and Republika Srpska's through, we cannot say a consensus, but the obligation to decide on the funds of the reserve at least under 2, so at least 2 ministers from each of the three constituent nations at the end. Also, making sure that we really have one big responsibility today to accept and the Budget and Budget Implementation Act, the SDS Club will withdraw its amendment and, of course, we will plead on Mr Špirić's amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6660	I thank Mr. Novaković. Do you, just a little bit, of course you can. You're Mr. Jovanović. Here you go. Miloš Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6661	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say here primarily because of the public, if I were to possibly vote this bill that journalists would probably wait there now for Mr Špirić, probably Mr Gligorić, and they would assume that they would accuse the SDS of voting for the indictment of Bosnia and Herzegovina against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. I want to be here, so I'll read what Mr. Gligorić and I have adopted in the last term. So the 2002 budget law. I'd like someone to tell me if there's any difference between what I'm about to read for 2002 and what's proposed for this year. "The official messenger of BiH" here it is, just like this to find, I apologize for what – budget reserves, and among other things, means that I don't read everything, says this - for financing the costs of international disputes and arbitration. So it's been in the official messenger since 2002, or the budget law. The same is true in this law that we now need to adopt. 42 Furthermore, Article 27, which we also dispute, is completely rewritten. Fully, so please, a member means I read from 2002 – "In order to maintain the liquidity and budget of BiH institutions, the Council of Ministers is empowered to make decisions on short-term loans from entities or banking sources in accordance with the possibilities of their repayment during the financial year," I found, this is probably Croatian. It's the same in article 27 of this law. So I don't want to accuse my colleagues now, but I don't think it's right for me to do too much in here right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6662	Thank you. I would ask you, please, to understand the moment we are in and to have our attention focused on what we need to do today. I cannot rule out the right of MPs to seek a replica, but I would ask you to reduce it or exclude it or reduce it to the least possible measure for this parliament to be truly what it should be and to fulfil its basic function, which is a legislative function. But here, if you insist still on this replica first, Mr. from below Blagojević's name, Mirko. He's got a replica. I'm sorry, easy, easy. Mr. Gligorić Tihomir replica. Here you go. And he's blaming the quote, says Mr. Gligorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6663	Who here has a problem with their attitudes and retardations I will not fall into the trap to get into these details. But in order to be true and correct, I should say the following. When the same was considered in the previous meeting, then MP Gligorić invested the only amendment in which he clearly requested it, because it was also clearly specified and that amount and thanks to the amendment, etc. There was a solution which was not explicitly stated how the proposal came into play. Therefore, to be called now in this way that there was something last time that I was not consistent is not true, and especially in light of the amendments and addition of the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, where the manner of jurisdiction and decision-making was treated differently compared to the existing Council of Ministers where there is a consensus. Mr. MP therefore had to take care of emerging situations in which it is not the same situation if he already wants to say that everything is exactly the same. So it's not. I supported the proposal for a budget with a desire for the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, at least the part for which they were provided, again part of the funds. Many have stayed to hang on the wagon, I guess in the rebalancing and there we'll somehow predict them as good will, but now with all due respect it's off, so now the subject has emerged excluding a lawsuit against Yugoslavia, a stumbling block just like in the last session. And now I am asking from the Federation of MPs who have discussed or who have not, and share their opinion that it should not endanger 99% of the budget through exclusion, because then the question is where the goodwill is to operate the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and where that future we talked about. You have to take care of it. It can't be someone's fault he's contesting 1%, and he's allowed 99% to work something out. And this, given that Mr. Ambassador Jovanović has spoken a lot of hypothetically what we think, what we assume I will not enter into that sphere and say most about it. But we're 43 here that when it's already mentioned that someone wants to harm the reputation of the SDS in view of the citizens of Republika Srpska, I'm really not your lawyer and the best that I speak as little as possible, because you'll take the best picture of yourself as you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6664	Okay. Thank you. Mr. Špirić, what's with you? I'm a replica. But please take strict care of the weather. Mr. Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6665	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed fellow Members, distinguished guests, gentlemen journalists, if you ask me, of course I will make a statement. There is no man in this country more transparent than I am and who appreciates your profession more. What a statement we'll see, but I see here that the SDS has some magical power like the psychic Zorka reading other people's thoughts about what they think and how they will. I absolutely don't care how any party behaves. This is a state Parliament in which MPs have the right to be in favour and have the right to be against. They have the right to define amendments, you have the right to refuse amendments, but the other thing is that it was in a pre-election Serbian vote. I wouldn't be surprised if they were to interpret now how the funds of a potentially positive lawsuit would be enjoyed by Srbin, not just Bošnjak and Hrvat, but that would be their pain. I ask you to let us bring the debate to an end, to plead. So if there's a majority, the law will be passed, we'll have a legal and legitimate decision and I'm a legalist in this country. Well, it's not like we all have to think like SDS or other parties. And why, here it seems (the most complex or the most controversial) if someone dares to offer an amendment. Come on, please, we don't need one brain and all that stuff, including this one that was a stumbling block, and it was pretty heavy. So I'm asking you not to read each other's thoughts. I Nikola Špirić have the strength to say what I think. And sometimes it's very difficult and not grateful. And I've never been angry with anyone saying that and commenting on what they're saying. But if someone said see now that this is over he'll come out and talk something. I mean, that's really funny. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6666	Okay. Please, nice. Wait a minute, please. There's a line. Take it easy. So we've got this, let's try to channel the course of the session, please. So we have an announcement from the Council of Ministers, Deputy Minister. Do the MPs agree? MPs have the advantage of understanding each other immediately in discussions in Parliament here. Do they agree to address first Mr. Imamović, Deputy Minister of the Treasury? All right. There's no such thing as consent. Mr. Jovanović has the need to, Mr. Jovanović, just tell him what it is? So this is the answer to the replica. Here you go, Mr. Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6667	I really think I made myself clear. I was clear 100% so Mr. Špirić repeats and Mr. Gligorić voted in the last term for the same law, i.e. not to speak now, means those members who were. So the same text that was then is the same now. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6668	Thank you, Mr. Jovanović. Sir, you asked for a word. What do you say? Mr. Mirko Blagojević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6669	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, I would only briefly refer to what we are doing today. And this law from the point of view of the SRS is unacceptable to us precisely because of this Article 18, and if it wasn't for him, we would have ended the debate this long time ago. In this position, the 3rd clears that if the law is adopted, Bosnia and Herzegovina's suit will be filed before the International Court of The Hague against Yugoslavia. It says clearly here and I mean, Mr. Munib Jusufović was also clear when he said what was controversial. And I would like it to stand here to write, so that we can make it clear that the rest will be financed and disputed against, that the dispute will be financed before the International Court in The Hague. Or that it says it will not be financed internationally, it will not finance the dispute before the International Court in The Hague. And if such a text were to be voted upon, then it is quite clear here that those MPs who vote for such a text, and I see that everyone is pushing for this text, this law to be adopted in this text, then it is quite clear that we, those MPs who voted for this vote to fund the lawsuit against Yugoslavia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6670	Okay. Thank you. I've made one mistake, here's my business warning, and it's really like that. A representative of the Council of Ministers has the right to ask for a word at any time of the session and has the advantage of the Rules of Procedure. I apologize to Mr. Imamović for making a mistake and I give him my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6671	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs in the best interest of helping with a project called the 2003 budget, I must say first that you know that there is a Treasury Ministry here, no matter what there is no Minister. We have a mandate to answer your questions. We have the opportunity to respond and propose solutions to all your suggestions. But out of respect for you, we have spared this right to intervene at any moment, and now I have to tell you if there is a need to preside over some evaluations, and you, on your request, can get answers as to why certain solutions in the law are given as they are given. So we're standing at your disposal and we want to tell you that we exist and that we don't get into a situation where there are no proposings and co-proposers. We're here, we're at your disposal. If there's something to answer, change the proposal, we're here. But just one more explanation. This solution that we made about the Hague lawsuit, I have to say it's a lawsuit against Yugoslavia, is a compromise that we sought for six months last year. These are the solutions that are only possible under the given conditions. Everything else leads to elaborates that are off-limits. These are political discussions in which we, as the Council of Ministers, do not have the right to participate. Thank you very much. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6672	I thank Mr. Imamović. The word came from Mr. Paravac Borislav, the first deputy chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6673	Obviously, we've fallen into a crisis over the final law. Opinions are different. The interpretation of the Council of Ministers Act also appears. Someone here said he wasn't familiar with the law yet. I'd like to make a suggestion. I am not sure whether it is in the procedure of business that the newly formed Committee on Constitutional and Legal Issues is to decidently interpret how it stands with the budget allocation, i.e. from the budget reserve. Whether it provides a concession or not is to be in line with Mr Špirić's amendment. If he's got touch points, I think we've solved that problem. So you'd suggest a break. He proposed that the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs meet and give an accurate interpretation of these provisions so that they could, if they could clarify all the dilemmas, be removed.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-11-0.u6674	Please, would anyone else like to talk? So please be nice. Here, watch this. All the legal provisions are perfectly clear, and here they were spoken of for by this speaker. That's what they were talking about. So things are clear, and whoever wants to know what's in the Council of Ministers Act imposed by the High Representative who is in force, he knows that, and here are the solutions to how to vote and make decisions already spoken for by this speaker. Things are completely familiar. I'd like to ask here to move on with our work. What is the difference between Mr. Špirić's amendments and that interpretation______________ That's what I'm interested in. I think the MPs know that things are completely clear, and here you have asked a question, and here are the answers, both from the Council of Ministers and from a few MPs here. I would therefore ask that we continue to work, with this session. If you don't mind, Mr. Paravac, we'll move on. Is anyone else, please? Is anyone else looking for a word? I therefore conclude the debate under this Budget Implementation Act. I invite you, we're in the first reading, so we vote on principles. We're in first reading, voting on principles. Who's in favor of the law in the first reading? Did you make the choice? Okay. Thank you. 46 Who's against it? Please just don't comment. You had a chance to comment. Please, let's have this session properly. I thank you. Are there any abstentions? - One. Give me the results of the vote. Okay. Thank you. I'm publishing the results of the vote. A total of 41 MPs voted. For it was 35. 5 was against, 1 was abstention. I find only the Law on the implementation of the budget in the first reading adopted and find there is no need for entity voting. We're going to discuss this law in a second reading. As far as the second reading is concerned, we've already had a debate, we've had the opportunity to discuss it, and everything has been said, so what was to be said here at the pay phone. Mr. Momčilo Novaković made his statement on the amendment and I thank him for that, therefore, about this amendment, since it has given up, we will not plead. Mr. Špirić, you're staying with your amendments. Okay. Please let us move nicely on to a statement on amendments to the 2003 draft budget law for Mr Špirić. amandman I. I ask MPs who is for the amendment and Mr Špirić? Who's against Mr. Špirić's amendment? Who is abstaining from the amendment and Mr Špirić? Okay. I'm asking you nicely about the voting process. There's no discussion. Like this. I am publishing the results of the vote by amendment and Mr Špirić. Of those who voted and 41 were like that, 10 were for, they were against 24, they were abstentioned 5.. I konstatuj that the amendment and Mr Špirić did not get the necessary majority. We move to a plea under amendment II of Mr Špirić. I ask you who's in favour of Amendment II Mr. Špirić? Who's against Amendment II, Mr. Špirić? Who's against the amendment? Did you count it? Who's being held back? I am publishing the results of the vote under Amendment II to Mr Nikola Špirić. Of the 41 MPs who voted 12 were in favour, against it was 22.7 were abstentions. I find that Mr Nikola Špirić's amendment, Amendment II, did not receive the necessary parliamentary majority. We move to a statement on Amendment III of Mr Nikola Špirić to the 2003 Budget Implementation Act. Who is Mr. Nikola Špirić for Amendment III? Who's against the amendment? Yeah, you counted it. Thank you. Who's being held back? 47 The results of the vote are as follows. 41 MPs voted, 12 for, 21 against, abstention 7. I konstatuj Amendment III to Mr Nikola Špirić has not received the necessary parliamentary majority. We move to a statement on the law as a whole as proposed by the Presidency. Who's up for the law? Did you count it? Thank you. Who's against the law? Thank you. Who's being held back? Who is abstaining from the Law? There aren't any. I'm asking you nicely to announce the results of the vote for the law as it is. Go ahead. You don't have to. Please, I'll tell you everything I have to say, don't worry, every time I say it. Let me do it. Please, nice. Let me respect you. You can't insist until I publish what I think I should do. Please, nice. 41 MPs. Please, nice. 41 MPs voted. Of which 36 were for the Law, 5 MPs were against the Law, there were no abstentions. I find that the law has received the necessary majority and general and entity majority in this House and there is no need for an entity's declaration. I realise that Parliament passed the Law on the implementation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2003 budget and international commitments for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2003. So that's how we did it, that's how the Rules of Procedure is, and that's just how it is. This way we exhausted the agenda of today's session. I thank you with some service information. Please, nice. We, first I call right after this session, of course, the College, then I call on the presidents of the political parties' clubs that make up the extended college to come to my office to discuss the composition of parliamentary working bodies that is one thing. And secondly, let's discuss the term of the next session of this house. On the other hand, this session of this house should be held next week, and I am thanking you for today's arrival and for participating in the work of this high house and thus announcing the completion of the third session of the Parliamentary Houses of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. The session ended at 4:15 p.m.
