ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7104	Dear MPs, distinguished guests, I am opening the 26th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly. In addition to the MPs, the meeting was also invited and attended by the chairman of the House of Peoples, Mr Spiric, the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, Mr Belkić, Križanović and Radišić, the Council of Ministers' Mikerević and members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, the OSCE, the EU representative, the Observer mission to BiH, representatives of the embassy who expressed interest in monitoring today's meeting. I find that the session is attended by 36 representatives and that we can work and decide. The absence was justified by the distinguished representative Mr. Ljubomir Kovačević, also, the respected representative Mr. Amor Mašović. So, the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. I support all present representatives and guests, as well as representatives of public information funds. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you received a two-point draft agenda with a call for the session. 1. This is the BiH institution's draft budget and international commitments for 2002. 2. Proposal for a law on the implementation of the BiH budget and international commitments for 2002 Also, since last session, we have three points left to add to this agenda. It's: 1. Forming a temporary commission to determine the facts relating to the sale of weapons; 2. Forming an investigative committee to investigate the case of weapons finding in Mostar; 3. The adoption of a resolution regarding the use of terminology in accordance with the Dayton Agreement. I would, we're going to open a debate on the agenda now, but I would suggest, that maybe, since this was both an agreement and a representative of the parliamentary parties' clubs and we all agreed on it together. If it is possible for today's session except for these two and what we have left not to add other points of the agenda, not to burden this session and we will agree on an organisation very soon of another session to solve everything that has passed the procedure. But here, I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Two, is anyone picking up? If he doesn't answer, he concludes. Thank you. I suggest that, however, given these three points that are added that we plead to accept this agenda. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. Based on the results of the vote, I find that of the 36 present 36 voted yes. So I'm realizing that the agenda was adopted as planned. So these five points, which is: 1. Proposal to budget BiH institutions and international obligations for 2002; 2. Proposal for a law on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international obligations for 2002; 3. Forming a temporary fact-finding committee for the sale of weapons to Israel-Cameroon; 4. Forming an investigative committee to investigate the case of weapons finding in Mostar; 5. The adoption of a resolution on the use of terminology in accordance with the Dayton Agreement. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. Proposal for a Budget of the BiH institutions and international commitment to BiH for 2002 As you know, on 21 May, we received in the parliamentary procedure a new draft budget and a new draft law on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2002. That's when we got a notice from the motion that earlier drafts of the budget and the law were withdrawn from the procedure. The College shall immediately comply with Article 106. The rules of procedure shortened the deadlines for considering and adopting these acts due to deadlines to meet the conditions set by the IMF, so BiH could join the talks by signing the Stand Bay deal. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered an opinion on the budget's contribution to the budget on 23.5. The Commission responsible for Finance and Budget 28.5 also examined the draft budget and the amendments submitted. I hope you received a report from the Commission today. Regardless of these shortened deadlines, it will be necessary today that we conduct the procedure both in the first and second readings. We also agreed that those amendments, which the Commission did not adopt, would be allowed, as a College, to be evaluated by the honourable MPs, if they were to assess the necessary dams in this parliamentary procedure. I'm opening a debate in my first reading, meaning principles and principles. Does anyone in front of the Constitutional Commission have a need? Notice, you've received a report. The constitutional-first commission gave the constitutional basis for these two proposals having a constitutional basis. If not, do the representatives of the Finance and Budget Commission want to take the floor? There isn't. Whether, before the debate, the debate will be in the first reading. Whether members of the Bureau want a word as legislators. The chairman of the BiH presidency, Mr. Beriz Belkić, has the presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, of course it's not about desire, it's also about the obligation that for such important two documents it's important that the Proposer says three few words. So, I am trying not to repeat what the chairman said, that I would just remind you that the Bureau at the session, a special session held on 20 May 2002, and on the basis of the initiative of the Council ofministers, which was caused, was based on the fact that the BiH Assembly passed the Law of Succession, the content of which had imperatively imposed the need for the current draft budget and the law on the implementation of the budget of January o.g. The amendments, by a trail of solutions, which have been established by the Law on Succession. So, starting from that fact, the Bureau had two, two models, two types of possible changes in the session, and the Bureau set itself up for the next solutions, which you have before you. Of course, it is true that we withdrew the earlier draft budget from January, as well as the law that followed it and established the new BiH budget proposal for this year, as well as the 2002 budget implementation law. We also recommended, asked the Council of Ministers to provide MPs with a report on the implementation of the 2001 budget. I hope you have it right here in front of you. When it comes to the content of the proposal that you have in front of you and which you are about to discuss and decide today, I am obliged to tell you when it comes to the budget, therefore, about the budget document the Presidency has unanimously determined it as you have before you. When it comes to the law on budget implementation, we have achieved quite a high degree of consent. We parted ways of making budget reserves available where there were two approaches. One approach was to decide on reserves, current reserves by the Council of Ministers, other resolutions, other variants, another approach was to decide on the reserves of both the Presidency or the Presidency, i.e. to develop variations to introduce the presidency into a situation that it could decide on current reserves. For this reason, the draft budget was adopted with two votes for and one against, which is in line with the Rules of Procedure. So, this document you also have in front of you has been passed on to the regulatory one, so to speak, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Presidency. Of course, I don't want to miss the chance to ask the MPs to understand the facts and the importance of the situation, that we've already had six months behind us, missed six months. We had an official proposal in January. So, six months have passed and I think it's high time for the BiH Assembly to discuss this matter and make a decision in the way your offices are predicting it here. I wish you successful work, and I hope this job is done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7106	I would like to thank the chairman of the Presidency, Mr. Berz Belkić, for the opening presentation, the explanation in front of the motionary. Are you a representative of the Council of Ministers? The word has a minister in the Council of Ministers, Mr Ante Domazet's Treasury Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7107	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished members of the Presidency, distinguished MPs, you have before you a proposal for a new budget of the BiH institution and a law on its implementation. The main objectives that we have set out to create these documents are to ensure the necessary resources for the functioning of BiH institutions and their development according to our Rod-map through our economic reform programme for which we must ensure adequate institutions. The next goal was to ensure the realisation of specific programmes that are current this year, such as the 2002 elections and the CIPS project as a special project of long-term importance for BiH and, finally, but not least, ensuring conditions for the completion of Stand Bay 4 arrangements with the IMF, for which the adoption of the budget is one of the preconditions for our stand-bay arrangement to be found on the board of IMF directors on 14 June in Washington. We had a need to change the budget and the law, because the revenues changed in the meantime, as you know, we got the funds of the succession and we got the resources of the World Bank's BAC loan, which stabilised the structure of the BiH institutions' income. We also had one particularly significant goal to ensure that this budget is properly serviced to external debt and therefore, thoroughly processed in this budget, our commitments this year are 11.1%) of BiH's planned exports for this year. As you heard from the President-in-Office's argument on the Council of Ministers' initiative, after a delay in the procedure for the adoption of the budget and the law on its implementation was observed, the Council of Ministers recommended the Presidency of an adequate amending budget and the law on its implementation with a view to meeting the deadlines that we had discussed in advance. On this basis, the Bureau withdrew earlier drafts of the budget and the law at the meeting held on 20 May, and you have them in new form today. The Council of Ministers takes the view that this draft budget and the law on its implementation have significantly stabilised the structure of the income of the BiH institutions and that this year we will have a much more favourable budgetary situation than was the first version of the budget made in January o.g. and therefore, the Council of Ministers also expressed its support for the proposal and recommended that it be adopted today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7108	I'd like to thank Mr. Ante Domazet's secretary for his explanation. The needs of the BiH budget. I'd like to point out that it's a dispersion in reading provost, so principles and principles. Whether anyone wants to talk, just about this first phase, principles and principles, and at this second stage, so, at the stage of the amendment, we'll come if we go through this first step. So no one will. Is there anyone who wants to go first stage? If not, we need a word, Mr. Jovanović's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7109	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, what can be noticed at first immediately by looking at this draft budget for 2002 is, a huge discrepancy, especially in the number of employees between, compared to the budget, the adopted budget for 2001 and the Budget Proposal for this year, so I'm just going to make this concrete. Here, in particular, so, with the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the 2001 budget, it envisioned 108 employees and the 2002 budget 95%, meaning less than 13 employees, and I really see here that there are a lot of new faces, I do not understand that the number of employees in the Parliamentary Assembly has decreased. Also, a similar situation at the Constitutional Court, where the number fell from 35 to 29. There are certain items where there are no employees at all, and certain funds are foreseen. Here, specifically, the BiH State Court has no employees and 363,875 marks are scheduled. Also, the House of Human Rights has no employees and 594,000 is projected to be similar for the Office of the Ombudsman for Human Rights, too, and there are no employees and 594,000 are scheduled for the BiH Property Requirements Commission. There are other examples, here's a specific human rights ministry that was scheduled for 73 employees and now it's 67, and then the Ministry of Treasury 83 to 71, etc. 5 What I would especially like to point out is what I noticed and what was particularly surprising to me is a large number of employees at the Regulatory Agency for Communications. I really don't understand, and I'd like to know, so 85 employees do what they do, which plays a role, especially given that much of the work has been done, they've lifted a large number of radios and TV stations, especially in the eastern part of RS where I come from, and I'm telling you that in Srebrenica, Bratunac, Zvornik, Skelani and Han Pijesk and Sokoc, there's no longer any media working, that I don't speak any further. So I said I mentioned my region where I'm sure there's no media. Furthermore, the question arises whether the announcement of a set of laws in the field of information by the former High Representative for BiH has given an even more important role to the Regulatory Agency for Telecommunications, may still have the task of abolishing the RS Radio-Television, so that we can listen and watch what someone else wants, not what we want. Perhaps it is, in the extreme case, some agreement as recently as a large number of meshetars from Slovenia who are visiting especially the eastern part of RS where the telecommunications regulatory agency has abolished these information funds, offering a variety of cable TVs, I say perhaps it is some agreement with them, probably these mechanics are trying to find free ground in a recognizable way for a very fast and easy profit. So I'd end up asking someone who can explain to me what 85 employees are doing at the Telecommunications Regulatory Agency? Where he spends three and a half million marks. I'm with us that they have some of their own incomes, until it's explained I'll hardly raise my hand for this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7110	I thank the honourable representative, Mr Miloš Jovanović. Is anyone else picking up? The word has a distinguished representative Bogić Bogićević and let the distinguished representative Ramiz Vilić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7111	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests. We're talking about principles and principles now. In order not to cross the line on May 29th, over the months behind us and not to turn it into practice in the BiH Parliament, regardless of who is sitting here now and in the future, I would remind you that today is May 29th and I would remind the BiH Presidency that, at the recommendation of the BiH Council of Ministers, it should propose a budget before 15th of October each year and that the College of Representatives should forward it before 15 November, shortening the procedure to the House of Peoples. So we are in a situation that in four months, BiH Parliament needs to have a budget proposal for next year, from an opportunity. That this composition of Parliament in its term of office will realize part of the budget that is in its jurisdiction, which is only four months. I don't want to open up a big debate about why we're in this situation. But if we are to form and strengthen BiH institutions, it would be good not to go beyond these obligations necessary and binding for all institutions, including the Council of Ministers, and its proposal to the Presidency to propose the BiH budget before 15 October each year. Therefore, it would be good if without, without, I did not insist on any rotten compromises, that today this Parliament should finish this job and that Parliament should no longer be informed that the first version of the budget is being forwarded in January from the Presidency in the last version of the 21st of May that we are talking about today. So much and thank you. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7112	I thank the esteemed representative, Mr. Bogić Bogićević. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Ramiz Vilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7113	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I've been meaning to even consider looking for an addition to this agenda. Why I thought about it, for the simple reason that I am aware of the fact that what this would mean today if this BiH budget were not raised and the consequences. So, on the one hand, I'm aware of this fact and on the other hand, I have to ask myself a question from the Council of Ministers what have you done to defend and defend today's draft budget of the BiH institutions? We received a budget proposal compared to the 2001 budget rebalance. That and based on it, they can't draw any conclusions. Today is May 29th. We could have if nothing else respected the conclusion, the Bureau's order saying that on the occasion of the budget proposal parallelly at this home should also be a report on the implementation of the 2001 budget. Now, those were the reasons why I wanted to and thought about looking for an addition to the agenda, because I think, and I don't want to give certain qualifications to these phenomena, and it's obvious that we don't respect each other, it's obvious that it doesn't seem to be anyone's intention to adopt this budget today. Today, it also had to be given a valid, reasoned and reasoned explanation of why this and this late budget had taken place. It's not enough to know. We know that the business obligation was in October last year. We had him in January of the month. We never went back to him again until today. And today, we can only explain it in a way and explain it in a way, unless BiH is adopted, it will not get the money. I'm sorry, but that's not how it's done. And in this budget and in certain positions, there's probably something to rub. Let's just look at how much public spending is growing as far as our budget proposal is concerned. And at the same time, although I doubt it is projected this year to increase gross social product by six percent. What does that mean? That means this country will go further. I'm just wondering how long, so, among other things, I'm gonna need one conclusion here. If public spending had to be audited and on the occasion of the 2002 Budget Rebalancing Proposal, we'd have to come up with an expert assessment and an attempt I'd say the alignment of this imbalance. The differences are huge. It won't go on forever. There you go, in the first one. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7114	I thank the esteemed representative, Mr. Ramiz Vilić. I note that we haven't received a budget report yet, so we couldn't put it on the agenda. If there's no one in this first stage, we'll come back later on, to the second if we pass this one. I suggest we make a statement about the first reading. The BiH budget proposal and international commitments for 2002. Who's for, then, first reading? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? – 1 So, of the 37 who are there 35 for – 1 abstention, no votes against. So we passed the law in the first reading. 7 There is no need on entity and I would now propose a half-hour break to hold a session of the Extended College, so the College and the presidents of the clubs of parliamentary parties next door. There's only a chance that we can move on to this second point and finish it in the first reading, if that's what you're getting at, so let's go back. So we're taking a break from club presidents to a meeting. Dear MPs, we gave a break for holding the College, so we move on to the debate in the second reading of the BiH institution's draft budget and international commitments for 2002. [[PAUZA]] We, for the most part, held a meeting for reasons to see how we're going to do in this second phase, means in the debate on the declaration of amendments. There have been suggestions that, given the urgency of trying to agree that, if it is possible for honourable MPs and MPs to give up the amendment, but I can say that most, in fact, are not most, we have not agreed, so it is said that we are opening the phase by amendments. Everyone has a chance to change or defend or give up on him at this stage. I'm opening a debate. Is it necessary in front of the Commission? There isn't. Rijeka has a distinguished representative, Mr. Tošić, and may the honourable representative Mr. Adem Borić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7115	Gentlemen of the Presidency, dear colleagues, I have come out to call once again and at our session all the amendment's proposings to honor what we have agreed and seem to be close to a solution at an extended session of the Colleges. To give up the amendment, knowing that our debate is likely to take on some other connotations. In a situation where we are brought before a final act, that if we want to, and we need to respect the IMF's position and if we want to fulfill what is planned, we are in the same position as with the Sucession Act. As a representative of the SDS Club, I also said at the Enlarged College, we will today accept the budget proposed by the Presidency and behind which the Council of Ministers stands, and I think this long time that has been working and agreed upon, in some way proposed by consensus for this House, that there is no need for us to be wise here today. We are against the variant of this way of working methodology, but we have no choice. We even moved the 31st session to 29th to honor those deadlines. Therefore, in order not to be exhausted now, we gave ours in principle to my colleague, Mr Jovanović, and only pointed out part of the problem we are facing in budgeting. But, knowing what's ahead of us, once again, I pray that everyone who has amendments now pleads that we withdraw them and bring today's budget this way. I think that the debate of some promotion, not to say political and evidence that is right and who is not going to bring us results, and we are in a role and position to act constructively and to abandon the SDS proposal and adopt the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7116	I would like to thank Mr. Tošić, the honourable representative. Word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Adem Borić. Anyone else want one? 8
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7117	Gentlemen of the Presidency, the President-in-Office, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, honourable MPs, the SDA's club remains with its amendment, which he sent to the MPs in an open time. I want to say very briefly and clearly a few sentences about this amendment. So, as a full member of the UN, the Republic of BiH filed a lawsuit against Yugoslavia before the International Court of Justice in The Hague. The court accepted and imposed provisional measures against the SRJ. In accordance with Article 1. The Constitution of BiH, Bosnia and Herzegovina continued to serve as prosecutors in this dispute and according to Article 3. The constitution is an obligation by the BiH institution to settle the costs of participation in the dispute, as another jurisdiction is the financing of BiH institutions and international obligations, i.e. obligations concerning the preservation of sovereignty, territorial integrity, political independence and international subjectivity of BiH. The exclusion of the BiH agent's funding item in a dispute against the SRJ, which was an integral part of the initial draft budget, is in our opinion a harmful and dangerous decision that could lead to the failure of a constitutional obligation by the BiH institution. This, so much more, that OHR as an official interpreter of the Dayton Peace Accords rejected the interpretation of the RS Assembly under which the sentence compromises the vital interest of the entities. Performing the obligations arising from the BiH Constitution and seeing the International Court of Justice as a place where the issue of the BiH and SRJ dispute will be fully resolved, the SDA MPs' club remains with its amendment. Without the agreement on the financing of BiH agents in the dispute against the SRJ The draft budget for us means devaluation and relativation of a constitutional obligation, and that is why it is acceptable for us to have the budget set out in this paragraph. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7118	I would like to thank Mr. Ademo Borić, the honourable representative. Does anyone else have a word? Word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Mirko Banjac. If anyone else wants to sign up.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7119	Dear gentlemen, esteemed members of the Presidency, distinguished guests, fellow MPs, I have tabled an amendment just to show in part that this and this BiH can, and I think it must go through true reconciliation and co-existence, which obviously is not present in these areas and is not present. I thought that from some termology that is completely foreign to me, I never realized that booking in Serbian means reserve in Croatian is a reserve and not a reservation with Bošnjak is not a reservation. So, it was deliberately put into the budget to make a reservation. The reservation is known to be left for what it says, it is a gentleman's interpretation and don't hide something you want, say like Mr. Borić what he said quite publicly and I want us to talk like this, so we can say the arguments to each other where we are and why we disagree, because there is simply no need to hide it through any introduction of a new terminology that is not contained in any of the languages present in this area. 9 I think that one state, which is based on a budget of 43,000 or slightly more marks and thinks that's the main item in this poor country, is the lack of property in this whole situation that in no way corresponds to anyone who intends to help us get out of this misery. So gentlemen, I want to ask you some questions. When was that lawsuit filed? Was there a Dayton BiH or not? Has the presidency ever, in full motion, verified the lawsuit as a BiH lawsuit agreed in Dayton? I know it's not. What do you want, gentlemen? You want us to argue again about something we certainly won't make a deal about. Then let's look for a compromise. Let's see where that compromise is. If we stand hard at the point of view that no one will get out of their trenches, then how far will we get? What will be the future that we're building here and now? So I ask you as a man and as an MP to sit down again and see what this compromise is in this case. You gentlemen who have most. You can bring what you want without me. Of course, you have the Alijansa, you have 22 you need to make a deal. The ones who aren't here. There's nothing to talk about. We can make arguments, but we can't make final solutions. And, therefore, I ask you not to do what you can to cost this country and these peoples of new war credits, new development investments, and I think it is, in part, to show whether we're going to make progress or not. By reading those amendments, I think that gentlemen can talk more about politics and not about expertise and reading those amendments, it seems to me that every free-minded and free-loving man has to wonder where he lives. Our whole mind and energy is focused on the budget around one stack as key, without which we will not be able to get out further or work. I, gentlemen, will never accept that this is the most important item I will never accept in this way building a future with the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7120	I would like to thank Mr. Mirko Banjac, the esteemed representative. If there's no more reports. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Brka. Please respond, if not, I'll conclude. Does anyone else want a word before the plea? Mr. Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7121	I welcome the Presidency and members of the Bureau and fellow MPs and all the guests, but I cannot help but think that I have something to say about this budget here. First of all, I'm sorry, I'm really sorry that the budget came down to one question, and if, by budget, what the distinguished Mr. Jovanović said and the esteemed Mr. Vilić said, I totally agree with their remarks, but in fact everything else seems to me less important than the principle of things that made the budget not until May 29th o.g. He came here before this Parliament. I'm going because I have some dates here, I'm going to try to read something I wrote, and I think it's important that I say it here, and that's why I went out on my own. The fact is that there are at least two truths to the character of the past war in BiH seven years after the signing of the Peace Agreement. They are the basis for frequent manipulations that create an abnormal living environment for all citizens and peoples of BiH. One side thinks it was aggression, classical aggression, and I think it was, while others think there was a civil war. If truth and justice are the basis for restoring these values on which to rest our future family relationships and I have absolutely no doubt about it, then they must come at all costs. A compromise on the damage of truth and justice is possible, but it sows evil seeds. A rule of the system in which lies are founded and that they come back as numerangs with severe consequences for some new generations. I believe it's in no one's best interest. Since actors on the domestic scene and today do not have common views, it is best, however, that a prominent, independent and impartial court such as the unequivocally International Court of 10 Justice in The Hague should rule on what we are arguing about. I claim that the Hague truth will be the most relevant truth. I don't want to believe that lies and injustices can be in the interest of any people or any citizen. In 23.1993, the Republic of BiH filed suit against the SRJ for violating the Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of Crimes of Genocide and Other Regulations and Obligations under International Law with the aim of proving the crime committed by the genocide of the inauguration of a reference to damages committed on property and the environment of BiH in the amount determined by the Court. In 1993, the court twice imposed provisional measures on the SRJ government to take all measures to prevent genocide crimes. We know no one looked out for them. It seems that the possession of force has hit some here in the head, let's remember the Srebrenica massacre of the UN-protected zone where about 8,000 people were killed. The International Court of War Crimes in The Hague has already established the genocide in Srebrenica through the verdict of General Krstić, former SR President Slobodan Milošević, is also being tried for war crimes and a complete political and military leadership of the former self-proclaimed RS has been indicted. The SRJ has tabled a number of procedural objections since the dispute of the international legal entity of the RS and the liegitimities of the body that filed the suit. I have the freedom of speech as well as Mr. Banjac please, I'm speaking here now.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7122	It wasn't brought on the agenda. I would ask, however, an honourable representative to concentrate on this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7123	I'm focusing on the question. I know what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7124	You know what you're saying, but a little on the budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7125	This is according to the budget. The court dismissed all objections, determined its jurisdiction in the dispute, as well as the capacity of the BiH prosecutor's state... of the wary state of Yugoslavia. The legal basis for court's assault is Article 9. Conventions on the Prevention and Penalty of the Crime of Genocide. Listing all the significant facts would take a lot of time, but I have to say that there are all kinds of obstructions going on for almost nine years to make sure that the action is made. Especially concerned and surprised, it seems from a smaller Bosnian-Herzegovina entity. The honorary place of the first man of obstruction of the suit belongs certainly to a member of the Bureau who has so far served all the funds, including a voluntary and unlawful withdrawal of the suit, without the knowledge of the other two members of the Bureau. Of course, it didn't bring success, but it brought shame to both the state and the person who did it to the man who did it. A member of the presidency, Mr. Radišić, recently said: I quote "I do not admit this lawsuit because I cannot agree to claims that the entire Serbian people are genocide and that RS is some kind of genocide state... Independent newspaper 14.5.2002." This is prototype thinking, so I'm quoting it. To judge the entire people would be mere ground-based politics if they didn't produce long-term and horrifying consequences. Mr. Radišić knows perfectly that he is not judged by the Serb people, but by one regime, the leaders who designed and planned, commanded or did not prevent the worst crimes at the end of the 20th century. Can there be a better way to take down a mortgage than collective guilt? Since it is illogical for Radišić to finance something that is denying and leading to its abolition, I would like to remind you of the statement by the High Representative, Mr. Petrič, in the previous term, which has been transferred by the "Dnevni Avaz" since 12.1.2002. I quote: "The Serbian Republic has existed since 14 December 1995, although they do not accept the date. The legal RS did not exist until then." The constitutional court is, the BiH Constitutional Court is in '92. the years have been annulled by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and other legal acts. I don't know any case in history that a member of one country's presidency is working against the interest of his country for the account of another. From a political point of view, the suit of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina had a goal that has not changed today, which is that the highest International Court, applying international law, established the real truth about the war events of '92. - '95. and the role of Yugoslavia. If Yugoslavia responds to the Bosnian gogoth, they should pay damage to genocide victims. I remind you that the Republic of BiH as an attack UN member was denied the right to self-defense with a known arms embargo. Also, the lawsuit in no way implicates the collective guilt of the people. Building friendly neighborly relations must be based on an unbiased truth of wartime. In front of us now, artificially created and extremely negatively politicized dilemma. Should we adopt in the state budget an item to fund BiH agents of 440,000 KM. I'm asking you. Who else could stand behind a lawsuit from one state, if not the state itself. The unfavourable proposals that have been going through the press in the past months to agree to funding from alternative sources are the humiliation and trampling of the country's basic dignity. It is gentlemen from the ruling structure of the issue of BiH's interest and it cannot be called otherwise. If you are now making arguments that a budget failure means not getting about 165 million dollars for this country, then tell me who's responsible. I will say that the answers are those that condition the erasure of items of 440,000 or one prominence from the planned budget. In front of their unfounded ultimatum, there is no need to give in. There is no peaceful BiH if there are bitter compromises at the heart of the interest of the vast majority of citizens and of all peoples in BiH. Those who do not want to vote in favour of the budget, while the item for funding agents is very well aware that failure to adopt the budget means huge financial difficulties and for the entity they come from, but are ready for gambling. If there is now $165m in financial arrangements with the International Community, you should know that BiH's favourable verdict on the BiH lawsuit is a hundred times as difficult. Those who are ready to withdraw from the ultimatum should think this through. What BiH representatives, the Bosnian-Herzegovina lawsuits will say when opposition lawyers present an additional argument before the International Court for the already disputed active legitimacy of the prosecutor's state. So, BiH will not finance its own lawsuit. The BiH lawsuit is not a private matter. Nor should private sponsors be sought to fund it. The state has to fund it. I resolutely reject all, self-indulgent ideas about the private sponsorship of the lawsuit. That's why I won't give my vote. And whoever wants to be willing to take responsibility. Dear colleagues and co-elgics, each government, in our case, the Council of Ministers would resign if it was unable to adopt the budget for nearly five months. I don't see this new concept of government being so loudly advertised before the last elections. Where's the partnership they promised you and who you boast about all your mouths. If the partnership is what you show by adopting the budget, let the minima explain what rivalry is. You gentlemen are the government and choose to make a deal. You solve a problem that only costs one change of budget. Do not introduce the home of the people at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, as was done at the last session. All political legal, sociological, psychological and moral arguments are on the side of 12 funding lawsuits in a transparent manner. It is the vital interest of every BiH citizen. It is only irrational, hypocritical and political toddler for the protection of people's interests. Such behaviour is, exclusively, in the role of protecting the leading people of a regime that has been harassed by crime and by no means by the people in which they swear. That's why I invite you to call yourself a higher interest when voting for the voice of your own conscience, instead of a vote of support.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7126	I would like to thank Mr. Brk's esteemed representative. Here's before the sequel. I have one explanation and an explanation. To avoid confusion, you here all react to the cuts of this, take his word. I'll remind all of us of article 56, so you judge yourself when you're in first and when you're not. A representative or a participant in the debate may only talk about the matter under consideration, in accordance with the established agenda. If he steps away from the agenda, the president will warn him. If this warning is not followed by the agenda, the chairman will be denied the right to speak, so please keep this account in mind. Mr. Tošić, then a respected representative, Mr. Grabovac, came forward, I mean business. Business has before everyone, even before the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7127	You want the alliance back if you do. To walk us out of that gym? Wait a minute, man. Let me finish. If you thought you were provoking us, Mr. brk, you wouldn't make it. I'm just replicating you to aggression. If you thought they were going to leave the Serbian MPs and this parliament, you're wrong again. They'll just leave when someone provokes you like that until you finish your speech. We are for this BiH and we want to adopt the budget today. I said before you came out what your goal is and how the session is going to run today and for what purposes you're trying to abuse this pay phone. Don't do this to us, because we want to build BiH. Do not provoke a member of the Serbian people's presidency in this way, because you have no right to do so. Don't let that same vocabulary that was in '90. You've been repeating it for years in 2002. They're heavy and still fresh wounds to all that. Throw out the word aggression. Consider representatives of all political parties in this House of Representatives and especially those from RS as those who view BiH as their own country. In that first, I'm asking the chairman, perhaps the first point should have been exactly what we made last time on the resolution, because this way we're going to make a terrible destruction. I repeat again, and I think it was correct, that you are my proposal, because I have felt exactly what the goal is today and that it wants to be shown that the representatives of the RS will leave this session and yet in another perfiduous way be accused of not wanting BiH well, because they do not want to adopt the budget and the budget law. So, we're going to stay here upright and dignified. What you were talking about, we offered you a thematic conference, we offered you a real debate about how the character was a tragic conflict in BiH, about who made the aggression with what cannons, from which the state-funded cannons on the blacklist, knew these states, about the credits on the terrible dirty war, which you were just a little principle in the last session, and then you sort of watered it all down from where they came from, who funded, who killed, etc. But it's for another time. Allow Mr. Chairman, to vote first for what we have suggested. If you're not ready for that, I'm on behalf of my club looking for a break of ten minutes. Is there any way we can move forward without amendments or are we going to make amendments? 13
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7128	I would like to thank Mr. Tošić, the honourable representative. Business intervention, it has the advantage not to confuse Article 55(1) and corrections are paragraph 2. Mr. Grabovac Miro - Titan.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7129	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, I've had second-hand intervention. First I listened to one sermon and now another. I think it is initially incorrect for the chairman to use and abuse this pay phone and I refer to Article 56 of Article 96. This is a long phase around this and, too, Article 106, and I would ask all of us here, not to hold a sermon like where, when and how, because it's in a phase around the amendment to the budget. So let's focus on that part to finish, and it's logical that it's hard for anyone to interrupt, but here in truth, it's out of the context of the agenda and the order that's supposed to be. Therefore, I ask the chairman to interrupt anyone who comes out of the agenda and in accordance with Article 56. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7130	I would like to thank Mr. Grabovac's esteemed representative. The replica was reported by a respected representative, Mr Mirjanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7131	Dear members of the presidency, honourable MPs, respected guests, members of the club where I am, are ready for the budget and the draft law on the implementation of the text budget sent by the BiH presidency. We heard the position of another club with MPs from the RS. I answered my word to point out some of the things they're writing in the Dayton Agreement. Under the Dayton Dispute, all laws, regulations and rules, the legal procedure that is in force on BiH territory at the time of the Constitution's entry into force, will remain in force to the extent that they are not subject to the Constitution. Therefore, the first continuity, constitutional-legal continuity and the RS and the Federation of BiH and all laws that are passed in accordance with the entity's constitutions are recognised. Of course, provided they are in accordance with the BiH Constitution, because all the constitution and all the laws must comply with the BiH Constitution. A second grade that I don't think is correct, I don't want to delude, I just want to point out the facts is, about a member of the RS presidency using the constitutional provision and putting so-called. the veto in the budgeting process. As far as I know, the OHR has challenged the procedural issue, because it said it could not be attached to the draft budget. The OHR has not pleaded on a lawsuit filed by the Republic of BiH in its time against Yugoslavia. It's an apple of discord that we ourselves must resolve. We gentlemen have at least three truths about the previous war. As many constitutive peoples in BiH, there are differences, but these differences can but also do not have to be apples of destruction for this country. Whether it'll be up to us. I would remind you that we have managed to pass electoral law in this session, to pass a series of laws, and thus pave the way for this country to enter the Council of Europe. We have introduced this country into the Council of Europe. We do. And don't let what we've been doing for a year and a half spoil today. We have provided regular rotation, selection of the Council of Ministers and thus met the condition that 14 BiH institutions operate, that BiH enters the Council of Europe. I'll finish. We're on our way. Let's look at other European countries. In other European countries, wars have been between peoples and countries for centuries. They're headed the other way now. By means of co-operation, they make and unite. What are we going to do, gentlemen? And we have one way. The path of reconciliation, tolerance and co-operation. And that's not the way to look out for the truth about each other. The problems of BiH must be solved here in this country. We must have the strength to look the most difficult problems into our eyes and that's what the world is asking of us. The world is tired of us. We must go towards the Europeanisation of the Balkans, not vice versa. The Balkanisation of Europe. Therefore, in short, I call on you gentlemen to adopt today's budget, adopt the law on budget implementation, and this country continues the path towards reconciliation, tolerance and participation in European integration. I don't think this is a replica of anyone in particular, I'd just like to point out some of the things they write in Dayton and OHR stuff.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7132	I would like to thank Mr Mirjanić, the esteemed representative. Whether the honourable representative wishes, a replica, a correction of the wrong people. Let's see who wants to replicate in this discussion. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Brka. Did anyone else want it without seeing it?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7133	It was really not my intention to insult anyone and least of all Mr. Radišić. I only quoted his statement in the paper. If that's an insult, I apologize to Mr. Radišić, but I don't think it's an insult. I did it last time, and now I'm gonna do it again, and I'm not gonna answer any more questions. I am here to go the way Mr Mirjanić said, but based on pure accounts and the truth of my people. Don't be afraid of the truth. That's why I'm just saying to every BiH citizen, not to mention any people. Every BiH citizen is in charge of making compromises in the truth and in clean bills that are for BiH's sake. Don't have a problem with which there's just no consensus don't put it under the rug and don't solve it. That's not why I'm here. I am so that the lights of cheeks go to Europe not to carry a burden with us, but to know what is what is what, so we will go together and I am not, no intention was there that any MP, any member of the people from here, would come out of Parliament, rather than simply informing them of the facts and then to come to the right conclusion. Don't push any problems under the carpet. They just pile up bigger problems. I suggest that to you all the best of intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7134	I would like to thank Mr. Brk's esteemed representative. Rijeka has a member of the BiH presidency, Mr Radišić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7135	Dear Chairman, esteemed MPs, today at this session I do not feel like a guest, but a member of the body that has prepared the draft budget for the financing of the state's institutions for this year and we have come here to defend, hold the proposal, and it is yours to bring the final word. At least I expected this to be the stands in which a political debate will be opened and not by chance at such a complex political pre-election time. Even less, I expected 15 to have to learn about my own delusions, to live in 2002. In a new BiH, internationally recognised, which made a major step towards the situation ten or six years ago. But a very modest step in relation to what is our common goal, which is what our people are looking for and expect. I apologize to Mr. Chairman, because I wouldn't want to fall into a trap to open a political debate here either. But since I've been called, I feel responsible to say that from a constitutional and legal point of view and this is the highest body in the legislative state there is another side to the truth. The BiH constitution specified that, after the first presidency was established, it would be adopted six years ago, whether or not to recognise continuity on certain issues, first of all, when it comes to relations relevant to BiH, Bosnia and Herzegovina with the world. It was, even, a 15-day deadline. The BiH presidency has never established a valid continuity with the suit. Not only was it discussed within 15 days, but within six years to confirm the lawsuit. On the contrary, using the same constitution, I sought protection of vital interest in late '99. the year, because it was filed on the April '98 lawsuit. a decade of decidently denied constitution between BiH and BiH, which recognises and which is the only one that can function as a state equal to two entities and three constituent peoples, and the complaint declared Republika Srpska. So, the RS that Dejton and the BiH Constitution recognise by a state-run surrogate. The RS Parliament is behind my request. That's what this parliament needs to know, but that's why there's an International Court of Justice. Let him settle that question. I really want to say this time exactly what I said, I'm going to say it again. No legitimate treatment has been established, and I'm asking, I guess it's time after nine years for someone to tell us. Who decided about the lawsuit? Who named the agent? Who's funded an agent for nine years now? Why six years, seven years after Dejton, is now trying to get an agent item into the BiH institution's budget. These were the reasons for the environments we talked a lot about in the Presidency and we found a solution and we came here with a harmonised proposal, not denying the right to the International Court of Justice in The Hague to take a final stand. I am going to return to the question that is ahead of us and express it once again as a member of the collective presidency, that the Presidency has come here with the agreed Budget Proposal, and it would indeed be extremely irrational to say that, due to only one change of budget, even less than one budget change, we are calling into question not only the budget of Vienna, we are bringing the overall position of BiH in this year, including the IMF and everything else we are looking for on the path of our accelerated movement towards European and global integration. Therefore, I ask that, as a member of the Presidency, we really rise up and return to the issue that is ahead of us, and I am not running away from it, and I would like to personally discuss what was in BiH once, and if we are likely to return to the truth, there is only one. The other thing is that whoever interprets it and sees it, but we'll have the strength to do it once and for sure, and once we're talking about it, then we have to equal ourselves with full dignity and dignity and respect for the victims, one tragic conflict in which we all participated. Crimes cannot and must not be amnested, but this is not an obstacle to the functioning of the constitutional and legal system to fight for the construction of a legal, democratic, European BiH, whose functioning is both needed by the institutions and their financing. That aspect, actually, is what we're talking about here today. There will be an opportunity for me to give a broader explanation and answers to certain insinuations that are spoken here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7136	I thank the BiH presidency member, Mr Radišić. One proposal wanted to propose Mr. Banjac's esteemed representative, and then we return to discussions, in the beginning. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7137	Dear Members of Parliament, esteemed guests, I think it is necessary that this Parliament be directed towards constructive work, and in that direction I do not think that there should be any resolutions and anything else. We keep making laws so that we can violate them and simply show how much we wish for the real progress of this country and its peoples. For this reason, I suggest condemning Mr. Brk's exposure in areas which are contentally and termologically contrary to the Dayton Peace Agreement in those parts to be condemned and to go to work. If it's not possible for gentlemen to do so, it's only a matter of what to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7138	I would like to thank Mr. Mirko Banjac, the esteemed representative. Mr Abdurahman Malkić, the esteemed representative, came forward. I went out. Then, the honourable representative, Mr. Kulenović, and let the honourable representative, Mr. Avdić, be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7139	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the presidency, Mr. President of the Presidency, members of the Presidency, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I will look specifically at, in my discussion of the concept of this budget, in fact, I will point to something that should have been done before and I will simply tell about what we should have done and what we should have done further. So, in the work of this parliament and the Council of Ministers, very little has been done to strengthen the functioning of the BiH state institutions. This is best seen, for example. Today's new draft budget by BiH institutions and international commitments for 2002. According to this proposal, which is, by the way, an even worse solution than the previous one. Revenues for the functioning of BiH institutions for 2002 form how, you have there in this material. So, from its own incomes, 24.79%, the previous proposal had 30%, then current cash-based support 18.o6% of the entity's budget revenue 38.56%, extraordinary income 0.35%, concession revenue by purpose 9.8% and dedicated revenues for elections and special programmes of 6.88%. Therefore, the presented data show that the BiH state is operating with only 24.79% of its own income and that it mainly depends on entity revenues. So the functioning of BiH institutions depends solely on entity policies, which should be the other way around in any normal state with this arrangement. It had to create favourable political miles, from which legal solutions and positive legal regulations would come, which would allow the functioning of the state with its own revenues, or at least most its own revenues. Therefore, the state had to find stable and adequate sources of state revenue in the consolidation with all interested partners from the international community. The BiH state has so far had to create conditions for the consolidation and development of national and economic space, which we also talked about in a proposal from the Council of Ministers Presidents, a proposal for work and a report. The draft budget thus envisions almost no guarantees for the construction and reform of the overall legal system of BiH, strengthening BiH institutions, economic and social reforms and returning refugees. The process of creating a new legal framework for the action of the BiH Council of Ministers and implementing reforms in the state and entity bodies of the administration was long needed and provided both horizontal and vertical integration of all levels of 17 state administrations in BiH. I'm sorry, I'll finish, this was supposed to be in the first reading, but it's more inclinating to this second reading, and I think it's the place for this discussion now than in that pronunciation. Therefore, this, unfortunately, shows that many other vital jobs for the state have not been done and could have been given the declared partnership position with the international community. Therefore, so far, the work of this parliament and the executive authorities in this assembly, unfortunately I see as a lost time for the BiH state and its institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7140	I would like to thank Mr. Kulenović's esteemed representative. Rijeka has a distinguished representative, Mr. Sead Avdić, and let the distinguished representative Mr. Malkić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7141	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Presidency, members of the Council of Ministers, honored guests, I, too, want to make one conclusion that the BiH Parliament, the House of Representatives of Parliament of BiH, was brought not by its own merit, not by our own fault in such a position, that in May we adopt and consider the budget of the BiH institutions and its international obligations, but it was the duty of some other bodies and in this context, absolutely, that we were willing and willing and open to much before the adoption and consideration of such a corrupt document for each country. BiH has recently been admitted to the Council of Europe on 24 April, and it is simply binding that it must enforce its obligations both internationally and each other, and in particular bring to terms the cruel laws and documents that allow the functioning of such an internationally recognised state. Which means that today we have the BiH institutions' budget and its international obligations ahead of us. In this budget, it came objectively as an expression of the painful alignment and attempt to find a consensus reached at the level of the BiH presidency and reached at the Council of Ministers level. In this context, the agreement, based on a compromise, is simply eliminated from the positions of this position that we are very often talking about, which is the position to fund BiH's anti-SRJ suit. However, he wants to set up an artificial thesis here in front of Parliament. We are not discussing the validity or the constitutional and legal continuity of BiH's lawsuit against the SRJ today. It's not on the agenda today, nor has it budget-accepted in its structure. Today, we are talking about the financing and structure of the BiH institutions' budget and its international obligations, which means that some are also trying to raise an artificial dilemma. If there is and is not in the structure of the BiH institution's budget, this position to finance BiH agent for representing BiH's lawsuit against the SRJ so that BiH itself gives up the lawsuit and this lawsuit loses its every purpose and this is a step towards dropping BiH's suit and representing and financing BiH's agent for representing BiH and BiH's SRJ suit, I think it's an artificial dilemma. Absolutely no one has the right to comment on or simply question the constitutional and legal continuity of this legal act, which is before the International Court of Justice, or before the International Court of Justice in The Hague, and it would be good for us all, together with this court, to look for the truth of this closer history and simply through the syntax of truth and reconciliation, to go to the future of BiH. I think it is a simple message and every reasonable dialogue in this BiH implies an objectively two sitangmes of truth and reconciliation and I think it is well Mr. Radišić and thank him for pointing out that this is not disputed and that the International Court in The Hague should finish its part of the job and that 18 simply, why bring it under question. In my opinion, the constitutional and legal continuity of BiH's suit against the SRJ has not been brought under question. And finally, the Social Democratic Party has tabled an amendment. You have it in front of you, to strengthen, to warn, to warn in the extreme case of obligations already being created, simply through representing BiH's suit against the SRJ. The illustrations for, it's recently, here a few days ago you could read in the press. I'll just short on the amount of 31,829 dollars USA Mrs. Štem can't charge since '98. years and if she tried more than once but was impertinently rejected by the Fondevanbizen Coagent... Muhamed Šaćirbegović. She also addressed the BiH ambassador to the UN at the time in New York, Mr Husein Živalj, for a letter addressed... i.e. Ksim Trnki, the current agent had never received an answer, and she also informed the French ambassador to BiH. ...to safeguard the reputation and integrity of this country, because it fulfils its international-priority obligations, an act of safeguarding the credibility of international law and in all other things, I think it is necessary to respond to these obligations that have been acquired. In that context, we cannot escape that truth. The obligations are created and are already ahead of us. Which means, I plead that, that's why the SDP wrote this amendment and thinks that these vows that are created and that will appear exceed that figure and simply go up to 910,000 KM. Once again, I think we have expressed our full political will and consent and to withdraw this amendment, however, there was no political will and I find it simply amazing. A man should review his first with individual political parties and parties, repeating the funding of BiH's anti-SRJ suit agent does not endanger or challenge the constitutional and first continuity of the suit, does not destroy its validity and it is not on the agenda today. There's something else on the agenda today. The budget of BiH institutions and its international obligations created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7142	I would like to thank Mr. Avdić's distinguished representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7143	Madam Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, my discussion will be a review of the three amendments tabled and the public demand for your support in the direction of my commitment under these three amendments. Namely, the first amendment is mine, regarding Srebrenica and I ask you to support it. The second amendment is the SDA MP's club, I'll absolutely support it, but I'm going to ask everyone here a question. Are we going to be a normal country? If we want to, and I think we all will. This is where we talked. Then does the state have a duty to protect the rights of its citizens? Will we, and will we, by our own procedure, question the obligations of the state against our citizens? By deposing the expenses of an agent, or representative of our own before the International Court of Justice in Hab. The third amendment is, the amendment of the SDP Assembly Club, if it were proposed what is right, I would absolutely support it. However, in this form of the proposal, he is nothing but politics and hypocrisy. It's supposed to protect the state and its citizens. Why? Because, this amendment, absolutely no, does not take another move from where this 19 funds will be settled? That's all it's meant to say, and we're supposed to be protecting the BiH state from its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7144	I would like to thank Mr. Malkić, the honourable representative. The replica was reported by the distinguished representative, Mr Damir Mašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7145	Dear MPs, members of the presidency, members of the Council of Ministers, the media, I apologize for going out, I do not want to spread the controversy about this, only to Mr Malkić to give a few words. Number one, we want to throw out the mines, because it's the first time it's being introduced into the budget, which you haven't been in control of, why didn't you put in to finance it from the budget? That's one thing. It's another thing. This is no politics, and our proposal is ten times better than yours, and it is seen from the amount and everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7146	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Mašić. Replica, honourable representative Mr Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7147	It's not ten times, it is twice in financial terms. The second thing, I didn't say you were pulling, but you didn't correctly suggest. From this amendment, he can't put himself in the budget like this. It can't be put on probation. It can, if the College takes responsibility on itself and they certainly won't do it. That's the point.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7148	Thank you. The discussion was attended by the esteemed representative of Vice-President Đedović, and may the distinguished representative Mr. Mijatović be prepared. Replica. Then I ask the honourable representative Đedović to wait a bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7149	Dear Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, I have a replica of Mr Avdić's exposure and, too, Mr Malkić. Therefore, an amendment was introduced into the parliamentary procedure to Mr SDP MPs, who was signed by the president of the Club Mr Bogić Bogićević, and this is being introduced somewhat shyly and at a small door. But here in yours, I'd say political calculation, the public is still informed. It is a request, therefore, that the costs of BiH's agent suit against the SRJ are not 400 or something, but 900.010 marks. Has the legitimacy of the lawsuit been questioned, the question asked by Mr Avdić? Mr. Avdić was not questioned by the legitimacy of the suit of whoever filed it and the way he filed it. But earlier, as Mr. Radišić, a BiH presidency member, said, should answer the question of who filed the suit and on whose behalf he filed the suit. So in the sense that you want to bring this 20 to an end, I would not agree either in legal practice or theory there is such a way of bringing some legal matter to an end. In fact, the fact is that BiH to Dayton was something else and from Dayton to Dayton BiH, and if the fact that the complaint was filed by the Republic of BiH that insisted on Dayton as we know it is also the fact that there is no lawsuit against the SRJ through the right planned procedure. Unless you want to say that within the Dayton BiH there are no RS authorities, etc. If you gentlemen want to say it, say it openly so we know what it's about. The question is why in BiH's budget, I use strict Dayton terminology is not the issue so far of including agents' costs in the dispute between the Republic of BiH and the SRJ, but it is only done this year. I would also like to know the answer to that question, and to be clear to us as people, as Democrats, because almost all of us in the omens of our political parties have the expression that we are Democrats so that we are openly, clearly, loudly in public debate, and not at a small door to drag such serious things in, etc. I wouldn't want to go back in time, and as most of my colleagues, it's not my intention, but pulling it into a small door should no longer be, because if we had any memory of the past, we're just going to come to the conclusion that things that didn't want to be discussed in the BiH parliaments and before the war were already tried to sneak into a small door, that perhaps, in the most part, the consequences, for the result, had a war in BiH, etc. That is why I would like to appeal, indeed, that without clearing these issues and without respecting the procedure, which is foreseen by both the BiH Association and the Rules of Procedure of this Assembly and here are some other legal projects, which we have managed to bring forward, as many here have pointed out, however, BiH has made great progress in order to improve, in order to enter European integration, here I am repeating, etc. Well, if we're dealing with things like this, in a way like this, believe that those are steps back and that that way we won't achieve the goals that we're sworn to here, I'd say more, order works, than they are true and we intend to.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7150	I thank the esteemed representative, Mr. Mijatović. Mr. Avdić, a respected representative, also called Mr. Bogićević, came forward to correct the allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7151	Ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate what my colleague Mijatović is saying, however, the fact that before Dejton was an internationally recognised state. We celebrated the other day, marked ten years since the entry into the UN, the institution founded these RBiH states and created obligations were continuity accepted in Dayton, which means that I prayed and pleaded that today we do not become the issue and that we are not making an artificial question of who is in favour, who is against the BiH suit against the SRJ. The second thing, to me, I really can't get an answer, why is he trying to tie the RS to this lawsuit? Why does he keep trying to tie the Serbian people to this lawsuit? I think that there is simply no reason, this is our neighbouring state, with which we have established diplomatic relations and what my colleague Mirjanić says, this apple of discord, conditionally said, should be disposed of, simply, in front of a measuring body that is therefore competent. There is no more competent authority than the International Court of Justice in The Hague. I'm begging you, there's really no reason to continue to discuss these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7152	Thank you. Word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Tošić. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7153	You know, Mr. Avdić, why we're connecting it, because you're probably explaining that JNA regulars have taken over Grahovo, Drvar, Petrovac, they've arrived in Bočac, they've destroyed everything alive, and probably because of that.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7154	We never said that. I didn't say.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7155	So give me an answer, because the Srbin themselves wiped it all out? Please don't, I'm pulling again.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7156	You didn't answer my question.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7157	I told you. '93. The year you filed a lawsuit. Who then participated in which government of RS representatives? And she's been admitted to Dayton. The RS army recognised as a regular army. You answer to me who has taken over and whose regulatory forces have taken up these premises? Where's that lawsuit? If you're so principled. But I'm calling again, so don't let us go back to it, gentlemen. Set up a session, set up round tables to discuss it. Bring in the experts, don't torture us on this today, please. We want to adopt the budget today. I beg you, Mario, give me the proposal I made to vote on him. Don't let us call each other. We'll go far again. We have all the answers. I'm telling you, if you don't have the answers, I have the answers, let us schedule a thematic conference to talk about it, my people. Don't torture us here and don't provoke us here. I'm asking you to make a statement about the proposal, and here I repeat again. Today as parlamers, we vote to give up all amendments, because our goal is to adopt the budget. This was put before us by the IMF and the international community and we need it. Let's vote, if we don't vote on this proposal, we're going to move on till night, and we're probably going to adopt by 31, and we're not going to respond to these provocations anymore. I say as president on behalf of the SDS Club. So we're not answering any more provocations. Whatever you're saying, we've put an end to it today, because we want to make a budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7158	I would like to thank Mr. Tošić, the honourable representative. Rijeka has a distinguished representative, Mr. Bogić Bogićević. Is it a discussion or...
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7159	Ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, of course, I couldn't have the effect of preventing this session from developing. We had a very effective session of the extended college. I thank the College in the narrow composition, which had a constructive proposal, that this session would end effectively too. But I don't think most people here are surprised. He shouldn't be a prophet or a magician, and he shouldn't predict that we'll have these and similar sessions by October 5th. Unfortunately, 22 more and more will be done in this House for the benefit of its narrow-minded interests and political parties, and less and less in favour of holding and this will happen for a simple reason, which, regardless of the wealth of each political party in BiH, is difficult to find and one party that can buy six hours of direct television space. Well, if he can't buy it, why won't he use it here for free. Unfortunately, that's how you court voters for the next election. That's why I haven't called by now, unfortunately, I've been called. The SDP MPs' club is not shy, but, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it has sent an amendment. He was prepared for a constructive proposal by the College to withdraw all amendments and to withdraw the SDP MPs' club, but that didn't happen. That proposal was not accepted. We appreciate that we have received the budget, proposed unanimously by the Presidency, supported by the colleges in the narrow line, we appreciate the need to adopt it in the middle of the year, and we are ready to support it. But what we predicted happened and what would happen. Here, the voters will be told stories on the occasion and on the budget of the past and the future of BiH and the budget will not be worried, the budget in this room will be adopted today and there will be no dilemma. But there's a need to spend this much time without need. We have heard here today clearly that there is no problem, that the International Court of Justice in The Hague, the International Court of Justice, confirms the truth, truth and justice as a premise for reconciliation between the people and the citizens of BiH, for lasting peace, stability, and freedom in these areas. That no one amnesties criminals and criminals, and so that this country, its citizens and its peoples, have done enormous war damage. That war damage, for that war damage, someone will have to answer and that war damage will have to be compensated. If so, and since the commitments and accounts have arrived, not since this year, that the Members' Club has proposed the amount he has proposed, relying on the reserves and having reserves in the budget for, among other things, these purposes, for new disputes, new arbitrations, which will eventually appear, etc. and, in that sense, he proposed a Club of MPs of the SDP amendment that would pass or not pass, but I am sure that the budget will be adopted today.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7160	I thank the esteemed representative, Mr. Bogić Bogićević. The Honorable representative, Mr. Mirajnić, and then Mijatović, reported earlier.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7161	Gentlemen, I'm trying to adopt the budget today. The question has been asked what is the link between RS and this dispute and this lawsuit. You know that we have been persistent against it, against this item and against the budget that contains this item. I don't want to continue this debate. I want to bring a budget, but, gentlemen, for information, those who are not informed, I will say only the following. This is the gentleman's supplement, part of BiH's supplemental suit against Yugoslavia. Date 1998. Which means at the time of the implementation of the Dayton Agreement. When decisions can only be made with the consent of the representatives of all three nations. In this lawsuit, that is, in this addition to the lawsuit is, gentlemen, the reason why we're against and which binds why we're against and what... RS. I won't explain. I don't want any further controversy. Those who don't know, ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for an answer to the suit and translation and let them see why we're saying it and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7162	I would like to thank Mr Mirjanić, the esteemed representative. Rijeka is represented by Mr Mirko Mijatović. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7163	Dear gentlemen, unfortunately, Mr. Bogićević, you have failed to reassure me at all, nor were you any clearer. On the contrary, you were far more general, because your expressions were caused by enormous damage and someone was going to pay for those damages. You so in your signature here on this amendment have not scheduled. You named someone exactly there and called it SRJ. Now let me ask you a question. If you confess gentlemen that I belong to BiH, that my Trebinje belongs to BiH and that the RS belongs to BiH, let me tell you something. I'm re-absorbing I'm asking you not to provoke the situation and not to answer it, but whenever you want, let me tell you, this tragic conflict, led by the Trebin brigade, here I am telling you, has not led against any people in BiH. It's against the regular units of each other's neighbouring states. You can check it out, and he can check whoever he wants and whatever he wants. And if you were in that lawsuit as you say it was someone I would agree with. But you didn't say it like that, but rather from a further context that you signed, you're unequivocally telling us who it is. You're prejudicing things. And since here are both Dejton and the international community, and every one of us is alive, asking us to call it a tragic conflict, until in another way, you get rid of it, or you look at it as only one part of the indictment, and by hiding other truths, it seems more unfair, and you're hiding behind the fact that you're only doing it in terms of absolute justice. Well, gentlemen, we love that justice of yours so far, we don't believe it. And allow such absolute justice as you wish to present it does not believe much of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So if that's true, why do you point those questions out? I would simply beg you, I beg you, as either I am collecting or as citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina with whom we want a co-existence. I've repeated I don't know how many times we have here and we want to trust in the common organs of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I spoke truly to Mr. Lagumdžija, and I consider him my minister. I really think of him because Bosnia and Herzegovina has no other minister but him. And as long as he is, I will consider him a legitimate representative and minister of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But if you continue like this, dear gentlemen, then I don't know how far we'll get. You can convince me, but if you can't convince the people I represent, and in such a way I have to tell you in addition to my best wishes that you can't convince him. At least for now. Well, then it's my duty to at least warn you about it. It would not have caused any tragic conflict or any political affair in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but rather the commitment of those you talk about, which are full of mouths when you swear to that Bosnia and Herzegovina. Well, I don't have any other country than Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't really have it. Don't provoke us. I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7164	I thank the honourable representative. Replica esteemed representative Bogić Bogićević. Well, we're gonna be going to ten hours and then we're gonna adopt faster.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7165	Of course, everything in the course of the scenario. I apologize, I hope Mr. Mijatović presents all citizens who have given confidence that the people represent the home where Mr. Špirić is sitting who is here. Therefore, this house does not represent the peoples, voters, citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in their constituency to trust us for sitting here. 24 There is nothing else unclear in the amendment, which has been proposed where it is well said to represent complaints of disputes and arbitration between Bosnia and Herzegovina before the International Court of Justice in The Hague, and nothing is unclear. Who wants to understand that we are not politicizing and that we are not turning this pay phone into stands and pre-election assemblies. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7166	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Bogićević. Replica is the same respected representative, Mr Stokić Dušan.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7167	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, esteemed guests. Unfortunately, this session today is increasingly turning into a pre-election promotion of political parties and individuals. However, today's agenda is quite precise, concrete. We had two points that we should have solved much sooner if we had been lucky. We all agree on that, however, that today's session is taking place is all the odds that we won't solve it today. The big topics that we're sure we couldn't agree on so far, and we won't be able to today. It is therefore pointless to ask the question here of the character of war, whether it was aggression or civil war, which is the cause of the conflict. However, the small item in Budget seems to be more important than any other problem treated by the budget. We here unfortunately look like that in Bosnia and Herzegovina that we have every view of everything. The budget that I think is primarily the economic category here gets one completely different, primarily political weight. It's when there's been a lot of talk about that item that I won't be different from my predecessors. He personally irritates me in a way why it's only a lawsuit against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The Yugoslav Army was an army of states that existed before a tragic conflict occurred in these areas, and that means a legitimate army. It is known when JNA retired officially from Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is also known that the regular army is another neighbouring country, there are data that cannot be refuted, has participated in war conflicts on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory. There are data on tens of thousands of Islamic volunteers of mujahedin who have also brought someone to these places to help in this bloody conflict in this area and no one has found it appropriate, if we are to honestly talk about all the causes of this conflict to call on, or to press charges against those individuals who brought Islamic mercenaries to Bosnia to help in the bloody conflict. That the same suit is being brought against another neighbouring country, so if we're going to consider everything to find an adequate international institution, court or not, I'm not referred to who will objectively consider it and finally make some conclusions that we will accept and that will oblige us. However, returning constantly, anything to talk about, we return to these painful questions. They are painful, but we must not allow them to be the brakes of this parliament's work. And it obviously is, because we've lost here today for as many as three hours and 15 minutes, we practically haven't said anything about Budget, and we can't see the end of the way out of this situation. This all reminds me of the time we discussed election law.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7168	It's been three minutes. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7169	Also, here's the juice. Let me cut this analysis short, but make a suggestion. The responsibility for adopting the Budget that needs to be adopted today, Mr Bogićević said even that it will be adopted, I am not sure that it will be adopted, but I think if we are reasonable people and responsible MPs should be adopted, and responsibility lies primarily in the position here. And you know the position. It's the Alliance and the Republika Srpska parties that make up my club that supports the Alijansa. So, being rational, I suggest what's realistic if we look at it, no amendment here can get most of it. Real. So let's be the practical de-party of the Alliance that we all withdraw our amendments and we will withdraw our amendments, to support that law. The opposition has the right to pre-electional promotion here, but we need to be rational and responsible to contribute to the adoption of this law. So I propose that all parties from the opposition come out and say we withdraw our amendments. Give the opposition time to tell his story that we vote and adopt the Budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7170	Thank you. Mr. Boro Bjelobrk's esteemed representative came forward. We're going into a new circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7171	On August 25, 1992, as a citizen, I was wounded. My luck in the head. Today, the only thing I know for sure is that the meteor didn't scare me. In the last session, I suggested that a parliamentary investigative committee be formed to answer a question that was responsible or who cut 200 thousand people to the head. I'm still having a good time. Interestingly, the largest number of speakers who hold a letter here today voted against that idea of mine. There are many things in life that end in compromise. After all, it is the tasks of people who deal with politics, but let them have some thresholds called the dead head around which no compromise can be made. I'd be glad to have the strength in this country, and I thought we'd all go in this door with at least such a measure of responsibility that what we are is the burden of our generation lay the dice of how things really look true. But in a normal civilized world when for any reason it doesn't go to even one family there's a court. My one esteemed colleague has last time made the entire pledoia here calling for his proper business right to investigate the circumstances. Great. Now that there's a group of MPs here who also want to investigate something, aman, for nothing. Once again, I call on you, regardless of how we agree on the budget today, Bosnia and Herzegovina needs the truth. This generation needs the truth first. It'll be great human wisdom if we roll our sleeves and our minds to answer ourselves first of all, what it's about. But there are no innocents in that story. A lot of people have proved it here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7172	I would like to thank the honourable representative, boriti Bjelobrk. Mr Ibrahim Đedović, the esteemed representative of the discussion, should be prepared for the esteemed representative, Mr Gligorić. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7173	Madam Chairman, the honourable members of the Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, seems to have become fashion here and then come out and tell us what you have, and the discussion will never come up. I'm asking for a fair play. I'm not gonna say a word about the lawsuit when it's the agenda, then I'm gonna talk about it, and I'm asking that we act like one, because we're talking about something that isn't even the subject of a debate. I appeal to everyone. I want as a man to just draw attention from the Budget for a few moments which are very important for all citizens of this country, regardless of which foreigners or ethnicities belonged, it is that the marks are earned for the functioning of BiH, and 3 borrowed,,, and 1, due. These are the naked truths as the distinguished colleague Avdić says, and I wonder how we will live from it. What house and household can live with that bill? We as responsible people must ask ourselves how we spend you to earn and how the debt we owe to reduce that those who come and those who should live here live better, live like the ones we talk about to strive for. Not every item of the agenda, we're going there. And to Mr Proposer, I would ask for one clarification to support this budget -- the Agency for Information and Protection of BiH envisions 7.7 million, and to support the return of 11.381. It's one discrepancy to me that I as a man can't understand, because we in this country have so much service that I don't know, I don't know if anyone knows what they're doing and who they account for and how much they cost. This again of these people who spend z means borrowed stamps. So you'd be praying a little bit about it before we give our word to the Budget. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7174	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Đedović. Mr. Tihomir Gligorić has an esteemed representative, and let the honourable representative of Mr. Cuplov be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7175	The Honorable Working Presidency, members of the Presidency, MPs, ministers, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to say three things. The first is that we got a new budget proposal after a long time of what you were talking about. The economy of time and time in Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot be appreciated, as we have confirmed in this case. And I can say that, compared to the previous proposal, it's good, that in methodological terms it means much better than it was before, that certain items are now explained, i.e. they're clear and it's known what it refers to and I don't think it's perfect, but in methodological terms it needs to be fixed. I understand perhaps the vault minister has room for maneuvers, so it is easier for him to work if there are no clearly accurate meaning items as required by the Treasury Act, as is done by the Government of Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH, the same should be fully applied by the Treasury Act and in such a way. I don't want to criticize this, but probably if I were in that position, I'd be comfortable with that position, and the minister might say something more about it. It might be necessary to say the same thing more in terms of the execution of the budget itself, which are the various elements they used and that it means to explain to us, that I'm not saying it right now, maybe if I'm not satisfied I'll say it further. 27 And the next, but that is the second, when we have already received a proposal from the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, if they have agreed and have proposed to us by consensus, I think that if we are going to have a little self-respect, then we should also take that fact into account and clearly support today the proposal that came to us from the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You have been rightly criticised when international communities ask us to proceed with an emergency procedure under Article 105. House of Representatives or Article 100. The home of the people is being resolved without a date. And you are rightly MPs who have spoken and made it clear that you need an amendment procedure, because it speaks of an MP and his right to express his second opinion. We are again in a situation today to have that possibility and many amendments have come. I also join others to withdraw these amendments relating to the disputed item of the case against Bosnia and Herzegovina against the SRJ, or amendments to the withdrawal of MPs who have or clubs invested. But I'm talking about self-respect. If we have elected two members of the Presidency, precisely this House in accordance with the law, since Mr Radišić is the only one left directly elected by the citizens, I have my opinion that when in...(the question) that he lost a lot of authority since he was not chosen by a direct citizen, but if they have correctly approached it and if we have received a proposal which has been resolved well by the concession, I believe that on the domestic ground MEPs should respect that fact and support their proposal and give up the policy that has been spoken of today when we talk about this lawsuit. And a third. Since there's been a lot of talk about this lawsuit, I want to say an opinion, I don't want you to get me wrong, and I don't want a debate about it. It is entirely the right of a municipality, an individual, a canton, or an entity to go that way and press charges of any kind and so on against the SFRY. But why do you want to now at this election time, and after so many years of feeling that you raise it to a state level and even though it has its own validity, you want to make it seem like it gives legitimacy and gives international meaning to character? Because I don't personally see any other reason if there is a possibility of being processed and processed by the UN tribunal that in this case, it is now seeking to impose this on the state level and thus come into a situation to argue about it. The truth can be found. And at the same time as we talked about it, individuals from the Federation often said they were not talking about the Serb people about collective guilt, about individual, etc. But I remind you that the 729 lawsuit said that Republika Srpska was created as an artificial creation, based on aggression and genocide and by alleged genocide... Where's your individual now? I want to tell you on the basis of one valid scientific study of public change in Republika Srpska that Republika Srpska was not created as a result of nationalism, the fight of nationalism, but as a result of the will of the people, that with the other two peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosniaks and Hrvat live equally in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This ignores it. I don't want to go to individual cases where there's an individual who's an aggressor, and at the same time a man died in a car accident. Except he's buried in his hometown and he's an aggressor as they say. So that range from collective, from Republic to individual I don't want to mention now because of the deceased's family, etc. So much is disputed and is something abnormal if Serbian MPs from Republika Srpska are looking for what has already been said today. Who signed the lawsuit? When was she put up with it? The content of the lawsuit? And everything else that's been said about that. It is perfectly normal for us to come to such practical knowledge that we come up with a lawsuit, because we also draw money from Republika Srpska and give money and two signatures to something, and that you did not see it incorrectly today is really looking for it. And I agree and support them to open up a real debate and on these issues and to open up to our public all the causes of the character of war, etc. Because it is difficult to convince someone if it is said that aggression, and at the same time we know the reality on the ground that the war, as it entered, was against the army of Republika Srpska on one side and the Bošnjak, that the Croatian army and the Bosniak army were also fighting each other, that 28 were fighting both Muslim and Muslim armies, and everywhere you will find it in basic readers to be about the elements of civil war. But we're not going to talk about it today. Let's leave it, or let it be, if this generation, and always the generation that participated, it will hardly come into a position to talk about it. She won't be objective. Either let it go to a new generation, or to have historians, lawyers, sociologists come in and, of course, give their word for what might be best. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7176	I would like to thank Mr Gligorić, the honourable representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Cuplov, and let the honourable representative, Mr. Amidžić, be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7177	The Honorable Chairman, respected members of the Presidency, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I ask the Honorable Chairman to come from the facts, it seems to me that today we will not be able to complete this and a long series of hours of discussion that, of course, the discussions we have so far will not lead to any solution. I'm asking you nicely, I remind you that we at the Expanded College have tried to agree on the first item of the agenda. A very formal discussion was made and the proposal was to withdraw the amendment. That didn't go for it. Try to convince one another here in Parliament that we are wrong or unnecessary amendments is the ultimate illusion. We had on our sono a proposal for a budget behind which the Presidency, the Council of Ministers were concerned and in which a very clear figure was provided for international arbitration. That's one of the reasons the SDA was willing to vote for a budget like this. Of course, all the amendments that are in the procedure, they are in legitimate procedure and I am asking you nicely to conduct a further session under the Rules of Procedure. Try to determine the truth in Bosnia, and even in this House and start from the fact that one is true, you're absolutely wrong. There are ten truths in Bosnia. Of course, there's an argument for every truth, too, if that's an argument. My proposal would be if the court in The Hague could be more measuring than we are. We obviously can't agree on the truth. So let the Court decide, but it's not a matter of breakdown. I ask you to conduct a session in the Rules of Procedure. I also appeal to you to hold on to the captain, because I will otherwise be forced to report all the next or future discussions as a replica. You know you don't limit replicas. This is where people come out in the form of replicas and give political speeches. I'm also asking you nicely not to make any suggestions in the procedure that are not absolutely justified. The right of speech is one of the basic human freedoms and absolutely no one has the right for me to prescribe the way I speak. There's no Dayton language you know. I'm asking you nicely not to put that kind of proposal in the process. I also ask that people who have discussed here be able to express their opinion with a lot of idignity. We have the right to disagree with that, but please call, let me set an example to forgive Mr. brkati, to call Mr. Brk for his position, it is absolutely inappropriate and yet to turn it into a series of replicas. I'm asking you nicely to try to move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7178	I would like to thank Mr. Cuplov's esteemed representative. The replica was reported by the distinguished representative, Mr. Banjac, the false allegation is. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7179	Dear gentlemen, you who wish to speak in an unsuitable language to a civilised world, and yet which is theoretically unacceptable because of the documents this country has signed, do not have the right as an MP, respecting the code of conduct that can be directly interpreted by the Rules of Procedure and thus interpret, you do not have the right to affirm that as a position that is acceptable here. I'm asking you not to do that, and I think there's a lot more duplication. Let's go do some concrete work, gentlemen. Why all this duplication and all this cheerleading passion? Who needs them? Let's do what we put in the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7180	Thank you, Mr. Hilmo Neirmalija esteemed representative. Technical correction.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7181	I felt, President of the Presidency, members of the Presidency, chairing, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, fellow MPs, you can also understand this as a replica, although for the first time today I am going out for this pay phone, but I cannot bear these opening qualifications used by my colleague Banjac, speaking of the uncivilised, non-political and other language used by the MPs who had previously come out. He did not document it, and therefore, by reacting to his qualification, I will present a technical and, in some ways, a political remark on the formulation of the amendments that my colleague Banjac made to Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2002 budget proposal. So I'm not talking about the content, they haven't come to the amendment yet, but to illustrate exactly the language used by my colleague, Banjac, I'm reacting to the documented text that he contributed to this home. The last sentence in the amendment is: - The remaining amount of technical reserve funds must not be used to fund agents before the International Court of Justice in The Hague. The patriarchal fathers, emperors and presidents of, say, North Korea or former Romanians used, have the right to use the word in their own language and not to, because they have a rod or rod to punish those who do not. The word must and must not be connoted by pathetic, totalitarian and volunteer implications has long been excluded from the political and legal language of modern civil society. That is why I call on my colleague Banjac to, in the future when he resorts to the characteristics of others, document it, and in the same wave, express my refusal in official communication in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, he must not and must not invite his counterpart Banjac to change the term in a timely manner in his amendment, which, in view of this bill, has given legal and politically acceptable expressions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7182	I would like to thank Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija, the esteemed representative. Mr. Mirko Banjac's honorary representative has the word. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7183	I respect the view that the MP has the right to interpret how he sees the problem and, of course, I don't consider all the views an attack on me or on what I wrote, but exactly like that, gentlemen, realizing all the weight of the moment of the political in which we live, realizing that precisely because of the content of the lawsuit that says that Republika Srpska was created as a genocide, I don't think that money should be used to finance such a lawsuit, because it's one flammable substance that could and how it disintegrates human passions, which we don't need. Absolutely not, and I would never agree to let you know, honourable MPs, that anything that would bring about the passions of Bošnjak or Hrvat I would use would give up this moment. From every amendment or any claim, or from any attitude if it will cause a revolution very dangerous in a difficult time and even more difficult environment of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would never use that. That's exactly why I used the word "no". He can't be allowed for safety, he can't be allowed for freedom, he can't be allowed for peace, he can't be allowed for co-existence and a lot of other things called civilization values in this space.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7184	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Banjac. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija, and may the honourable representative Mr. Amidžić be prepared if there is no other.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7185	I have made very clear my opinion on one inappropriate word and the implications of using an inappropriate word in official communication in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament. I'm afraid that by writing his amendment, my colleague Banjac has forgotten himself in some either paternal or imperial or some totalitarian imagination and that he has used the word thoughtlessly. I asked that it be determined according to that word and that the unacceptable word that I have as an MP and as a citizen bothers to replace it with an appropriate term. I didn't expect an interpretation, because I believe that no one here has the right to prescribe to someone in this way what they can and cannot do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7186	I would like to thank Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija, the esteemed representative. Mr. Marko Amidžić has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7187	Gentlemen of the chairman, fellow MPs, I, as far as I understand on the agenda, is the second reading of the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I'm undermining the institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the amendments. Maybe it's a shame that at the beginning of the debate, it's a constant number of them, who invested them in whether or not to level them on the table and then know what we're talking about. It's a shame that this one, we don't all think about the amendment in Croatian as well. Because the amendment in Croatian means repair, and all of this today except what Mr Malkić suggested about Srebrenica is no repair, but just more complicated things. 31 Forgive me in this manner of my determination against these questions. I mean, it's not about repairs. We have a concrete draft budget for the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina ahead of us. So don't expect me to support those amendments, but I will support the budget since I see that there are no quality repairs. I'll support him the way he's proposed. Why am I still gonna support him? He's got a parting and spending side in him. He needs to become an instrument of money management in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions. It has an obligation to define through the budget law who the beneficiary of the budget is. And we are also opening questions here about institutions that at the very least would have to define whether the institutions are Bosnia and Herzegovina. So by that and by that nature thing, you should even discuss it. Please suggest that we continue not to raise any more political issues in a purely accounting fragmented question at the moment. That's how much it has to finance this country this year. Especially not because I'm going to be a little bit of this malignancy, my people want my people in the future, and here we're talking about some prosecutor and some defendant, and they're both past. They're definitely past in one legal sense in a subjective sense. I'm not talking about the need for someone else, and the least that should be done is by the legislative authority of one country as we want to do Bosnia and Herzegovina. Let the courts or any other questions solve it. People, let us not burden our practice and procedure with these questions. Because of the political dimension in this debate, I will not support any proposal for a conclusion, as these conclusions are mainly provoked from two blocks. Just putting conclusions into the debate on the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, bringing Parliament into a political debate that will not result in work. And in the end, I hope I haven't taken much time to ask you to understand me, that your bilaterals, bilaterals, I repeat in the qualification of something that has long been unfortunate for all of us, you're not trying to turn us into trilaterals. And you know why? I mean those who are trying to debate us from the Croatian Democratic Union Club or from the Croatian people. Because of that, because of the seriousness of this problem that we have in front of us, we don't want to simply, we simply want to sacrifice that part of our media space, is it who you're using right now, we want to sacrifice it just so that we don't fall into a trap like classical politics right now. So I ask you to go to a concrete debate on the amendment proposal. My relationship against the amendment I repeat, is such that none of them represent any repair except Mr Malkić's attempts, because he is a concrete example of Srebrenica. I'm sorry maybe because of this very state of affairs as it is, I won't be able to vote for such a quality amendment that deserves special attention from the whole country when it comes to the return and restoration of the people of that state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7188	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Marko Amidžić. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Buturović. I'd like to hear from you if there's anyone else.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7189	Honored members of the Presidency, the College, gentlemen of the delegates, press representatives, I will be very brief not to be longer. I, as a member of the SDA party, speak for myself and on behalf of my colleagues, would really not want to get the impression that by returning to the past we want to win, to win cheap political points in the election campaign. We are the party that is looking at the future, the party that is on the path of reform, which leads to the ultimate goal, which is 32 in Europe. I'll remind you two days ago Mr. High Representative Paddy Ashdown was here. I'll just try to say what the gentleman said for a moment.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7190	You don't have to say that about the amendments. Really.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7191	It's okay, please, everything fits. Bosnia and Herzegovina is at a crossroads twice. One is instability and division, another is the path of reform. Working on reform is creating a future and it's not an easy job. The path of faster reforms means attracting investment. Due to the complexity of the structure of this country, much more money is spent on politics, not on the people, and I mean pensioners, the judiciary, health care and public spending sectors. Dejton did stop the war and that was his primary goal. It's a foundation for the state, and it's not a roof. The real future of Bosnia and Herzegovina is not to abolish ethnic identities, but it is necessary to learn to value Bosnian identity. Three people are three pillars of this country. It's the way to build the modern state that we all want here. I will point out here, which is very important, concerns the budget that many international aid programmes, very important and important, are missing us precisely because of this. And that's what I've said so far when it comes to health care. That's a very important question. We, as culturally as the Club, have submitted an amendment and we want you to make it known on a regular basis how you consider it without any further barren controversy. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7192	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Butorivće. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Adem Borić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7193	I am obliged to say that indeed the College in the jury has tried to arrange for all political parties to withdraw amendments to vote. Although my mind has not left me, it seems to me that the SDA MPs' club that tabled the amendment remains consistent with all political parties, he wanted this House of Representatives to be declared on the amendment. Of course, we did not want to stop this home with this barren debate, but we wanted to support the basis of our agreement and the basis of the first draft budget in which this one, which came from the Presidency and in which this item was treated, came. It was therefore a reason that we insist that this thing enters the budget once transparently. And indeed the compromise that was made in the Presidency, I don't know how it was made and how they made it, but there was a compromise in that way that item in the budget was withdrawn. This House of Representatives, we have to get used to it must have an opposition and the opposition doesn't have to stop the Alijansa for Change to stop this budget, but we wanted to be consistent, we wanted it, we tried to say very culturally, I'm in front of the Club without insulting anyone very correctly to know that we're going to vote both here and at the College and it would be really here and fair and correct to do so anyway. So the SDA Parliament Club insists that our amendment be put to the vote and that we set ourselves up and go to the adoption of this budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7194	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Borić. 33 So I'm the one who concludes the debate. I am obliged to visit this position, which Mr. Tošić proposed, but at this stage we cannot conclude that we simply will not vote on the amendments. Everyone, it's the right of every MP, it can be a suggestion and that's what it was. Me, but obviously that's not possible, so you wouldn't be here. I give the floor to the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr. Beriz Belkić, as the presidency is a proposing and, if possible, we may get an explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7195	I realized we had a direct specific question. Mr. Đedović asks for this position of the Information and Protection Agency. It is located in the department, or part that speaks of the nomination of special programmes, whose funding is provided from additional sources. So she, this is conditional on the fact that the agency law will be passed and when it will be passed and whether the agency will be established. If this happens for the functioning of that agency, specific sources of income that are not registered here will be sought. Therefore, it should practically not be brought into contact and compared to this amount for the displaced persons and refugees. In that same position, additional funds were also planned from specific sources and for displaced persons and refugees. And here's just one short sentence. Absolutely giving up the situation to lead to re-debates. It's about lateness. The presidency was late with the proposal, but gave it in January, but gave it in January. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7196	I thank the Honorable Chairman of the Presidency, Mr. Belkic. I'm closing the debate. If I'm not mistaken, we'll cut through the amendments now, with two conclusions. So there were four, actually four groups of amendments. The Rules of Procedure say that it goes on about each and every one, that it should first be the ones that is the widest, so I don't know it's a little hard to evaluate here which one is. So here's the statement if no one's against it. The amendment of Mr Abdurahman Malkić's honourable representative. Well, he's asking for the most money, so that's what I'm counting on. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? The abstentions? Out of 38, 26 for, without votes against 12, abstentions. We need to make an entity statement. Who's from the Federation for? Thank you. Do you mind? Who's from Republika Srpska for? Federation 23 for, Republika Srpska 3 for. According to the interpretation, it should be agreed upon. That's what we'll see how everything else is going to be, so all together. 34 We move on to Amendment II which is next, which may be this big, is the amendment of the SDP Representatives Club. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Restraint? Thank you. Of 38, 21 for, 5 against, 7 abstentions. An entity from Republika Srpska who's in favour? Thank you. From the Federation who's in favour? Thank you. Federation 21 for Republika Srpska 3. So it's a coincidence. We're going to the amendment of Mr. Mirko Banjac's distinguished representative. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you, abstentions? So 38 present, 5, 27 versus, 3 abstentions. So he didn't get the necessary majority, we don't need to move on. We've got two more amendments to the U.S. Attorney's Club. Amendment number and who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. The abstentions? Of 38, 14 for, 10 against, 13 abstentions. Entirely. From the Federation who's in favour? From Republika Srpska who's in favour? Federation 12 for Republika Srpska 2. So it's a coincidence. Amendment number II of the SDA Club. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. The abstentions? Thank you. So 38, 14 for, 10 against, 13 abstentions. Entirely. Who's from Republika Srpska for? Thank you. From the Federation who's in favour? Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina 12 for Republika Srpska 2. So it's a coincidence. That's what we've completed the amendment procedure. We're about to vote when we're this good with these conclusions, no matter what they're saying. You've reached the conclusion of Mr. Ramiz Vilić. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Abstained? Of 38, 26 for, without votes against, abstentions 9. 35 Who is from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the conclusion of Mr. Vilić? Thank you. From Republika Srpska who's in favour? Thank you. Federation 20 for, Republika Srpska 7. Here's something that went through today. I'd like to make a statement on the findings of Mr. Banjac's distinguished representative. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. The abstentions? Of 38, for 9, 23 against, abstention 6. So we don't have to go any further. He didn't get most of it. So we're about to have a phase of compliance with these amendments. I would suggest we move on to another point. There's another debate about principles again, so maybe we should lead the amendments, so there's a need to agree to try to convince each other together. We're continuing the second item of the agenda. We have to make amendments first. Let's go to the other one, so we can leave plenty of room later. We're moving on to second point. Ad. 2. Proposal for a law on the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and international obligations for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2002 We also got the bill 21.5. The College has set the same deadlines for the bill as for the draft budget. There's a debate about how much, half a meeting. Okay. A half-hour break. [[pause]] Dear guests, I apologize for having such a long break, not for me, if it's easier for me. It was generally necessary to carry out certain consultations in order to be able to vote on the budget. Is there anyone else before the sequel? It's not just that. So we voted, I did, we agreed, so back to point one, since we talked about agreeing to the amendment. I'll brief you as soon as I can. We needed to agree on three actually four amendments. I agree that we did not agree and we will be forced to carry out the process of declaring amendments and then on the budget. But here's before the plea the esteemed representative, Mr. Mašić, wanted a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7197	Dear colleagues, this media that remains, I'm just curious about who we've been waiting for and what we've been waiting for and who doesn't appreciate our time? Because obviously it wasn't this long, so it takes over three hours to get along. About what, about what? Because we were all sitting on breaks, drinking coffee, wasting our time and wasting our days. Please answer my question. If you guys can't come from college, then at least who asked for that break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7198	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Mašić. I don't even know the correctness towards clubs. I haven't spoken to the MPs he's been looking for. It was more important for me to just see if we had a job to finish, see if we had a budget. Personally, I think we should wait. It's not right that we don't know what the break is, but we're also people's representatives and we're paid for our work, and I mean even well paid, but without it I think that, so if we can, we can answer you in writing, but we don't cook any more. All right, all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7199	I would really like to join my colleague Mašić who asked this question. We're really here, we don't appreciate ourselves here as MPs or as human beings. He's treating us, and it's inexplicable. A half-hour break is required, so that the break is four hours. We want to be answered for what's the reason? That's what we're looking for. What are the reasons for this kind of break? Whoever asked for a break can answer that. What's the four-hour break, which is why it's not half an hour, as it's been said? Gentlemen of the College, answer these questions. This isn't the first time. I couldn't agree more, I support my colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7200	I would like to thank Mr. Buturović, the honourable representative. Here, if you want me to tell you exactly what it's about. For reasons we simply couldn't agree to withdraw the amendments. We tried everything, for the reasons of the amendment, and everything else was like this. If it's going to be easier for people to answer, they've been looking for the right thing to do, and they've been informing. I've been informing you as much as I can. It's a crowd, it's a long way off. Here's a word for Mr. Tošić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7201	Gentlemen, I have asked for a break solely for one reason today, according to the request of the international community and the IMF, to adopt the budget, not to adopt the budget in order to bring things into line. We wanted to do a job here on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And if that bothers you then come out and say it bothers you. I think the time we've spent is not in vain, that we've agreed at clubs, that the Presidency, or the College, has come to a solution that can satisfy all clubs and it's up to us now not to waste time, but to effectively vote and declare the budget and the Budget Act. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7202	I would like to thank Mr. Tošić, the honourable representative. And one more explanation. We didn't have, I was coming back here and there were certain colleagues, but there was no quorum for continuing work. We didn't think it made any sense to postpone the session for tomorrow. I think that's better, but here. So we have to carry out the plea phase according to the amendments. Three groups of amendments remain. So a total of four amendments. Just like we've voted for one row before. It was the amendment of Mr Abdurahman Malkić's distinguished representative. So the vote under Article 45(4) means most of the total number, provided that the votes against do not contain 2/3 or more representatives from one entity. Who's in? Malkic's amendment. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. The abstentions? So a total of 39, for vote 27, versus 10, abstention 2. So we're going to this other part. Who's from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina against? No. Who's from Republika Srpska against? So against 2/3, amendment I didn't go through. We're going to the next amendment. It's an amendment to the SDP Representatives' Club. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. The abstentions? Thank you. Of the 39 who voted 25 for, 11 against, abstention 3. So we need to do this second part. Who's from Republika Srpska against? Thank you. Who's the Federation against? From Republika Srpska v 10, Federation 1. So this amendment didn't get enough votes either. We're going to the amendments to the SDA. Amendment I.. kao's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. The abstentions? 39 present, 14 for, 10 against, 14 abstentions. Who's from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina against? Thank you. Who's from Republika Srpska against? So Federation One v, Republika Srpska 10 v. The amendment I didn't get the required majority. 38 Amendment II of the SDA Club. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. The abstentions? Thank you. Of the 39 who voted 14 for, 11 against, 14 abstentions. Who's from Republika Srpska against? Thank you. Who's from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina against? Republika Srpska 10 v, Federation 1 v, means amendment number II has not passed either. Have we exhausted all the amendments now? We did. So we are left to plead on the proposal for a budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2001. Is everything correct? So we've been through everything. Who's in? about the budget. So we are voting on the proposal for a budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina or of the budget. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. The abstentions? Thank you. 39 present, 30 versus 8, abstention 1. So we also need to check with intelligence. Who's from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina for? Thank you. Who's from Republika Srpska for? The Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina 20 for Republika Srpska 11 for. So we adopted the proposal for a budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2002. I thank all the MPs. So it was still worth waiting for. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. Ad. 2. The draft law on the implementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget and international commitments for 2002, we also received 21.5. The College has set, better said, shortened the deadlines as well as the previous proposal, and the Commission has met the Constitutional and ustavno-pravni and Competent Commission for Finance and Budget. You got the report. The debate is now in the first reading. It means principles and principles. Do the representatives of the commission have the need to? There isn't. So the report is clear. So I'm opening a debate in the first reading of the proposed law on enforcement, so we'll go first and second. 39 If no one answers, I'll lock up. I suggest we vote to make a statement about the first reading that I can raise. Who's in? "Principles." Thank you. Do you mind? No abstentions? There aren't any of the 39 who voted, the vote voted 39. So we adopted the bill in the first reading. So principles and principles. We're moving on to another reading. You know that certain amendments to the bill have been tabled. Here is the introduction for the word by the distinguished representative, Ms. Emina Začiragić. We have two groups of amendments. So the distinguished representatives of Ms. Emina Začiragić and the PDP-DSP/SNSD-SN-SPRS Club, right, if I asked?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7203	I welcome all present. To begin with, with these amendments that I have submitted, the Party for BiH Club and I are now on behalf of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Club, the Party for BiH. When I decided to submit these amendments, I had in mind a legal situation that we mentioned today. I wouldn't be in politics right now. I will deal Bavić only law and I think I have full legal arguments for such an amendment and such a party club for BiH. I will just point out that the BiH Party insists on the rule of law and legality always. We have the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in Article 1. The constitution states that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a state that has legal continuity with the state that was admitted to the UN in 1992. So immediately Article 1 recognises the legal continuity of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The presentation of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and at that time, and even when Bosnia and Herzegovina was the Republic of the former Yugoslavia, was in charge of the tripartite presidency until 1992 and from 1992 to 1995, and from 1995 to today, Bosnia represented the tripartite presidency, yes, well, composed of three representatives from different peoples living in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The proposal for a law on the implementation of the reserve budget relating to the financing of international disputes and arbitration provides for such funds to be decided by the Council of Ministers. Since Article 5.3 of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina determines the authority of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency, among other things, to represent Bosnia and Herzegovina in all international institutions, and such an international institution is the International Court of Justice in The Hague. I think that we have not only demoted the Presidency, but that we have taken away its constitutional jurisdiction, if we have deprived it of its right to decide on funds for the financing of international disputes and arbitration. It is not just an international court lawsuit in The Hague that is the international dispute between Bosnia and Herzegovina. There is and certainly will be other international disputes and arbitration and funds of the reserve related precisely to such cases of international arbitration and disputes, not only to the Hague suit. and I think that we have disbursed one part of the presidency in their constitutional jurisdiction to represent Bosnia and Herzegovina in international institutions and thus decide on the potential costs of such representation and representation. These funds provided for funding in the reserve for the financing of international disputes and arbitration are given in the power of the Council of Ministers. I don't think it has a 40 constitutional basis, that it was done in a compromise and that in this way we put the Presidency in an unconstitutional position that it is responsible for representing Bosnia and Herzegovina, in fact, representation in international institutions, without having any authority to decide on the funds. That was the main reason why I tabled the amendment and I insist on such legality and constitutionality. I don't think anyone can deny those arguments, those I cited today, legal arguments. If there is a political will to practice law, to deal with the rule of law, this amendment should pass. If there is no such will, then it is a political problem and I think you will see today in the vote that who will take the stand. Following the party's insistence on the rule of law and insisting on legality, I call on the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina to give us all relevant information on the dispute before the International Court of Justice in The Hague. Several MPs pointed out in their discussions that they did not know the details, presenting some of the pieces from the context of perhaps all the material found in the international court in The Hague. I propose that it be the conclusion of our Parliament that the Bureau delivers all relevant information to Parliament on this complaint so that it will no longer be taboo and that there is no reason to plant any possible things that do not stand. I suggest you adopt this amendment, and I will definitely, the BiH Club will form its position on this later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7204	I thank the distinguished representative Mrs. Emina Začiragić, who explained the amendment and attitudes on behalf of the Club. Mr. Željko Bilbija, who is also a signator of these amendments to the Club of Parties which I just said.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7205	Dear gentlemen, I welcome you all so as not to list since today is the first time I've ever followed this pay phone, so I've been patient for eight hours. At one of the previous sessions probably over 60 days ago, I asked a parliamentary question, and I think I'm already talking about this phone booth for the fifth time in which I was asked to give me information about how many employees were employed in 2001 and how planned it was in 2002. And I think it was perfectly normal, because in order to plan the budget, you have to know how many employees are planned. Since here these two laws combine an economic and legal profession, and I am neither of them, I translate it to my profession. In traffic this fellow Malkić knows as well as I do there is regular maintenance and there is maintenance based on some extraordinary events that we cannot predict. Here's an example of taking 100 new vehicles, one can cancel the gearbox, and the 100 can serve maybe 10 years. For that reason, I've been looking for some information to discuss this. For that reason, on behalf of the Club and the Club, I have put these amendments into place. Amendment I, relating to Article 5(1), and this amendment, we propose to amend and read: - that budget reserve funds can only be used as a missing amount of funds for budgetary users and the allocation for the circumstances that arise. Because if we knew how many 41 employees we would have and what at certain levels these costs would be, then we could have determined them more precisely. But since we didn't know, I suggest one of these amendments. The second amendment is to Article 5.1 of point 2 which is amended and read: - that transfers of funds from the budget reserves can only be made on the basis of individual decisions made by the Council of Ministers by consensus. There is no big change here, but simply to determine exactly that for every decision the Council of Ministers must make, as is the rule as far as I know with the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7206	I'd like to thank Mr. Bilbija's esteemed representative. Who's next to the word? So it's about the second reading about the amendments. A debate on amendments. If no one answers my word, I'll close the debate. I suggest we make a statement first on the amendments. I would like to place the amendment of Ms. Emina Začiragić's distinguished representative, the party's Club for BiH, behind him. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Thank you. The abstentions? Thank you. Of the 39 who voted, 25, 10 against, abstention 1. So it's entity. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Thank you. Who's from Republika Srpska for? Thank you. Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina 22, Republika Srpska 3. So he's going to go for a match, but I guess it'll be a little faster procedure. We're going to declare the amendment of Mr. Bilbija's distinguished representative who explained it on behalf of the clubs. Who's for the first amendment? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Here, we won't even have to agree on this. Of the 39 who voted 11, 14 against, abstention 4. So he didn't get most of it. Let's move on. We are putting on the declaration of Amendments No. II. Who's in? The amendment of Mr. Željko Bilbija's esteemed representative. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. The abstentions? Of the 39 who voted, 11 for, 24 against, 4 abstentions. So he didn't pass, we don't have to move on. Was there any other amendment that we hadn't forgotten? It's not. 42 So we have one amendment left to agree on. We didn't agree. I find that we have not agreed on this amendment and we must return to the session and continue the plea procedure. There's no need to pause, because here we agreed that we didn't agree. Is there any need before the vote? There isn't. Thank you. Who is Mrs. Emina Začiragić's distinguished representative for the amendment? Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. The abstentions? Thank you. Of the 39 who voted 25 against 11, abstention 3. So we need this second part of the procedure. Who's from Republika Srpska against? Thank you. Who's from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina against? From Republika Srpska v 10, from Federation 1. So this amendment didn't get most of it either. So we are left to plead on the draft law on the implementation of the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2002. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. The abstentions? Thank you. Of the 39 who voted, 31 for, 8 against, abstention 1. So we're going to the entity. Who's from Republika Srpska for? Thank you. Who's from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina for? Thank you. Federation 19 for, Republika Srpska 10 for. I agree that the draft law on the implementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget and international obligations for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2002 was adopted. I thank the MPs for being very patient and for allowing us to simply resuscitate everything other authorities and authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina have been waiting for. I really thank them all. We're going to the third item of the agenda, that's Ad. 3. Forming a temporary commission to determine the facts regarding the sale of weapons to Israel Kamerun whether anyone wants to explain it. So the point is that we need to form a commission, determine the number of members of that committee. 43 I, if I may suggest to the promoters that they try to have every one of the clubs in that commission. We have me thinking at the moment seven clubs, or if they have any other suggestions. I just remind you that we have meaning SDA Club, SDP Club, SDS Club, we have Party Club for BiH, Mixed PDP and other mixtures representing Bahri, we have HDU Club and plus those of us who don't have a club. That's seven. Here's a word, but you agree to make this one of us. So here's a proposal in front of the SDA's Club of Representatives, the esteemed representative Mr. Ramiz Vilić, here at SDS Miloš Jovanović is proposed. Here's a proposal from Mr. Banjac's distinguished representative as independent. Here's a word for Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7207	I did it last time, and I repeat that suggestion once again. In order to save time and be rational, we have confidence in the Federal Parliament which founded a commission identical to this commission proposed today at the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament's House of Representatives. Is it really necessary in this country to have two commissions working on the same job? With the fact that the Federal Parliament Commission absolutely has a higher level of conditional responsibility because it is a federal defence ministry, because it is simple documentation all in the Federal Ministry and in this context I have suggested that we wait and receive a report from the Federal Parliament Commission and that this report is discussed and that it be a relevant basis for discussion at the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives. I think it's really unnecessary to propose two commissions on the same job to set up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7208	I would like to thank Mr. Avdić's distinguished representative. Mr. Mirko Banjac's honorary representative has the word. Okay, but we can't ignore it, that's the agenda point, and I think we should kind of bring it to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7209	Dear gentlemen, I support Mr. Avdić's proposal, because I think we must leave the entities their jurisdiction and we must trust the entity parliaments and I think the proposal is good.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7210	The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7211	Dear Presidency, I think we in the last session have established that a commission should be formed and I don't think it's really right in half the work, when a commission is formed to come out with a proposal like this. I suggest that in this commission, I take my liberty in front of the SDP, Mr. Sejo Avdić. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7212	I would like to thank Mr. Brk's esteemed representative. I think it would be good for us to propose and we certainly have to vote on it, and the commission, normally, can also ask the Federal Parliament committees and everything else, but to be fair to ourselves, I think we deserve to at least inform our commission. Here, I don't know what you're suggesting. So, we've had four suggestions so far. Dear Representative Mr. Ramiz Vilić accepts, is that right, distinguished representative Mr. Miloš Jovanović accepts, the honourable representative Mr. Banjac, could he be a member of this commission? You got it. All right, that's what you're gonna do on the committee. So, can we say you accept? Dear Representative Mr Avdić. Sustained. The word has been given to the honourable representative, Mr Amidžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7213	Madam Chairman, fellow MPs, firstly, I support that the commission has seven members. I am moving ahead of Mr. Zdenko Vukić's club to this commission and he will accept it, because we have agreed and, for the sake of these previous issues, I propose, since the promoter has not really prepared the content of the work, I suggest that this commission, first of all, investigate the constitutional and legal basis for the transaction of the trade arms, please. So, the legal basis for investigating the position of the BiH Presidency towards this transaction, to investigate reflections on the implementation of BiH's defence policy, adopted by the Presidency and reflections of this transaction at the international position in BiH, the country's reputation and foreign policy, and to investigate and inform with its findings the relevant international institution, in particular the High Representative and to report to Parliament on its work, that it is in the activity to report to Parliament within at least 60 days and that, depending on these results, Parliament is determined on individual responsibility if there is a need for the Council of Europe, the Stability Pact and other institutions that we are interested in informing of these activities. It's my contribution short of what I think this commission should do. These proposals mean the competences of this parliament in the policy area and of the function of the state to be achieved in Parliament, the Presidency or elsewhere. I don't dispute jurisdiction and the need to involve the federal parliament, but it has a whole other dimension. There is no dimension of defence policy, which the Presidency determines, has no dimension of the presidency's competence and has no dimension of the country's international position, and you must understand that, however, it represents the serious functions of a country that it wishes to have in its own hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7214	I thank the honourable representative, Mr Amidžić. Rijeka has a distinguished representative, Mr Mirjanić, and let the distinguished representative Mr Malkić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7215	Gentlemen, for a moment, Mr Avdić and Mr Banjac have pointed out something that we must consider when we talk about this commission. The BiH Parliament is not in charge of the Federation of BiH parliament and the rule is that Parliament can never be in charge of another parliament. Each parliament shall act in the framework of its jurisdiction. Since it is the responsibility of the Federation of BiH institutions, it is clear then that if we form it tonight, it is tasked to collect from the competent institutions of the Federation of BiH the facts that they 45 have established and to add it together and present it to us. So, it is not a commission to conduct an investigation and it is not a commission to engage in the jurisdiction of the Federation Parliamentary Assembly. We trust in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Federation of BiH. The formation of this committee is neither a interference with its jurisdiction nor a lack of confidence, but it is aimed at informing this Parliament here and nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7216	I would like to thank Mr Mirjanić, the esteemed representative. Here's a word. Here's an intervention from the esteemed representative of Mr. Bora Bjelobrka.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7217	Mr Mirjanić, this is so gracious, rationalizing things in the relationship between the two parliaments and trust it so much. The only thing that matters right now is that you were the chairman of not providing me with information for Trebinje and Banja Luka, following the same interpretation.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7218	I would like to thank the esteemed representative, Mr. Bjelobrk. The replica was reported by distinguished MP Mirjanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7219	I think you've forgotten all that talk about your many parliamentary issues. You know, please nice, I didn't get into your word. So we've asked the competent institutions to provide information. We have worked several times from the Council of Ministers to ask the Council of Ministers as an operational body executed by the authorities for information from the competent institutions. If you are not satisfied, I urge you to address the Council of Ministers, the then chairman of the Council of Ministers, who is your party chief, while at the same time addressing the current chairman of the Council of Ministers who will provide you with information today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7220	I would like to thank Mr. Željko Mirjanić for his honourable representative. The word again has a distinguished representative, Mr. Bjelobrk.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7221	This has already been medical. It's about my party boss and stuff, let's say we skip this time without comment. But I remind you of the obligation of the chairman and of the College, according to article 25, and in that sense do not at least speak to me. You're doing your job.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7222	I would like to thank the esteemed representative, Mr. Bjelobrk. Mr Malkic, the most respected representative, is Mr Malkić. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7223	Dear gentlemen, the issue of arms sales is a very important issue for the BiH state. In the last session on the issue of arms sales, we foamed in this home and discussed who is right and who is wrong, and now, on the issue of filling up, or forming a commission, we joke about proposing members of the commission, or is clearly talking about our relationship against some, versus the issue of arms sales. The SDA took seriously the importance and proposed a serious and first proposal for a candidate, or member of the commission. Not proposing candidates from the order of individual political parties speaks clearly about the position of individual political parties, i.e. the party on this issue. The need to form a commission is clear, given that this is about interstate trade relations. It is clear that we have the authority on this matter and that it is necessary to reconsider, not enter, normally into the powers of the entity committee. One more thing. I believe that the number of members of seven is high, for reasons that require additional costs and the possibility of putting together commissions and work. I suggest that the commission count from 3 to 5, it seems to me that we already have five proposed and that we take the job and do the job we stood up for at the last session, and not like today we're here to transfer each other, but we're joking about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7224	I would like to thank Mr. Malkić, the honourable representative. Word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Bilbija.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7225	Dear gentlemen, I feel here called that some clubs do not have a representative. We've put our trust in Mr. Banjac. So I don't think we've taken this problem unseriously.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7226	I'd like to thank Mr. Bilbija's esteemed representative. Mr. Cuplov's esteemed representative came forward. We have four MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7227	I would like to remind all of us that Mr. Lozančić's request raised this problem to the state level and was fully expected, that the BiH state's lovely parliament, on the proposal of Mr. Lozančić, formed a commission to investigate this kind of problem, similar problems at the level of the state. There was no agreement to form such a commission, I remind you of that. The individual requirements, which, apparently, enter into the authority of the entity and the authority of the commission formed, seem to me to be completely rudimentaryly treating this problem and so much of the Party's club for BiH will not give its representative to such a committee, and in a vote for this proposal we were abstentioned, not considering, in general, that it is not significant to examine this problem, but we could have both this and all other cases from this issue disputed and suspicious to say, at the state level as a state parliament, along with the state commission of that parliament to investigate and we refused the opportunity that came to us here. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7228	I would like to thank Mr. Cuplov's esteemed representative. Who's next to the word? The word has been given to the honourable representative, Mr Amidžić. It's not about the number of members, it's about whether or not we want to, and if we need it, if there's any will to form it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7229	I allow myself not to be fully aware now that I have come to consult the Rules of Procedure, however, when it comes to the ad-hoc commission, then at the very least it foresees the case of the individual. Talking about commissions for all cases over a six-year period means diversifying things and doing nothing. So, assume, explore and walk. We have a concrete request for a specific case and I think it's the best solution, most practically. Then, in a short time, information can be presented to Parliament, and I maintain that for all cases individually, if you specify them, we form the same committee, but let's say case number two, case number three. And speaking of a commission, which will explore something that has been in the past six years, it is at least a divorce and I repeat, my insistence is on, the constitutional and legal position, to be seen first of all by gentlemen, it is impossible for this Parliament to ratify all contracts other than a military co-operation agreement. These are interstate contracts and who says this parliament has no competence. Please. What are the reflections on foreign policy? What are the reflections? You're not small questions. We heard, among other things, about the exposure and the foreign minister at the last session of Parliament. So it's not like you're not talking about it in the world. And we need to answer. But if we form the commission with the aim of catching someone guilty there, and I find that no one is guilty until it's proven and ultimately guilty will prove the courts or someone else, we need to give an assessment of the legality and work in that transaction. Nothing else. So, not going in, I apologize if someone thinks I'm looking for witches or someone else's responsibility right now. I'm sorry, but gentlemen, this is too serious a question and I think for the sake of the BiH public, we shouldn't be watering down what we were trying to do at the last session. This is the same opinion I am giving to those next commission to form and in which I propose to Mr. mir Grabovac Titan ahead of this, and he will accept it because we have agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7230	I thank the honourable representative, Mr Amidžić. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7231	I must say that I am making conclusions on the basis of one case and ignoring the near past in the past year – it is two days, ultimately uninstructed and sanctioned only one case and on it bring about specifics and strategies and judge developments in BiH. What do you see, it is absolutely necessary in the near past year – two days to see what arms sales transactions took place in this country of BiH? And, from that aspect, talk about sanctioning the simple position of our foreign policy and everything else. To single out a case from the mosaics of this country's weapons trade with foreign countries is not an instructional and not good one, especially in an election campaign. Then it's politicisation, a simple desire for sensation, and it's not good for the BiH state, and plus we still have one commission that deals with the same things. So, after all, we're replacing the thesis and I mean, I feel like we're on the wrong track. The Commission is right, 48 to investigate this case and all similar cases in BiH. Who's got a problem with this in your parlametre? Who's in trouble in the BiH state? Why don't you ask yourself that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7232	I would like to thank Mr. Avdić's distinguished representative. In words, honourable representative Mr. Baković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7233	Ladies and gentlemen, I went out alone not because I wanted to and because I was inspired, but because I had to. I couldn't resist it anymore. I couldn't stand the atmosphere like this anymore. If we have agreed at the previous session to set up these committees and establish the reasons for it, and then it is now time for us to come forward to set up these commissions and let the commission work, but now if individuals go out here and wave on a political need, about explaining an international situation, I think it's just too far for the commission to know what they're going to do, let it connect with a federal commission or some body, which has to do with it, or with some judicial authorities, with the MUP, etc. Let him do his thing. But there's something else I'd like to say. If it is added to BiH, that and that and if it is thought only that the parliamentary commission will watch and settle things, then we are all wrong. If there is no dialectic unity in this country, between the executive and the legislator, and if they are not properly complemented, then there will be nothing of many things. But if there's a process and there's one now, that the executive power or vice versa is looking at each other to fool and who's going to frame, or if there's no trust, then it's not going to work out. If in BiH the ministries corresponding to the Federation and the RS do things that are contrary to the law and to the positive regulations, and we are just to watch, unable to get over things, then things will not be good. Anyway, I say we need executives to do their job honestly and Parliament to sometimes control it, but that we always put ourselves in some service to be on guard, so that we keep the state alone will be unnecessary. We need everyone here slowly and all the factors to unite and take care of it. That's it, by the way, I think we need to form these commissions to give people the opportunity to work, trust them and nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7234	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Baković. Rijeka has a distinguished representative, Mr. Zdenko Vukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7235	(speaks from place and no exposure can be heard)
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7236	Fifth, then. I can conclude that so far, five respected representatives have been proposed for this commission. These are distinguished representatives of gentlemen: Ramiz Vilić, Miloš Jovanović, Mirko Banjac, Zdenko Vukić, Ivo Lozančić. Are there any more debaters? We should bring in, if there's no one else's suggestions, whether or not the Proposer can be a committee of five. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7237	Two-thirds in the first and that's one rule.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7238	Yes, Ramiz Vilić, Vukić, Lozančić and everything is fine. We should now draw a conclusion on the formation of a commission in this composition that will determine, here you can, if you have. We have a six-commission proposal. So, another esteemed representative, Mr Mehtić, is added. Is there anyone else to discuss? Rijeka has a distinguished representative, Mr. Bogić Bogićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7239	Ladies and gentlemen, I feel the need to say why the SDP Club doesn't have a proposal for a board member. Last time we heard an explanation about how a gun was sold to Kamerun, but that wasn't enough. We were against the formation of this commission, given that in the press and the public the accused and called SDP is the most responsible for the sale of weapons. We weren't against it because we'd take responsibility or we'd admit that something was wrong. We have been some committee to examine this and every time a commission and every commission proposed in the last session of Parliament, we have supported it. Why not? Let him do his job, given that, among other things, we are accused and, since we think this commission will not succeed in 60 days offering this Parliament valid evidence, given that this parliament is not in charge of this part of the job in truth unless it is extended to the proposals made today by Mr Amidžić, but today he said not last time. I don't mind that, just because the SDP won't participate in the commission's work, we'll consider reports, accept or not accept and we have nothing against work.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7240	I thank the esteemed representative, Mr. Bogić Bogićević. In accordance with Article 26(2), it means that the House can adopt a conclusion, establish temporary, or investigative committees, I propose that we conclude that this temporary commission is formed in the form of these six persons as previously read. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Thank you. The abstentions? Of the 34 who are present 27 for – 1 versus and 4 together. So it would be subjective. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Thank you. Who's from RS for? From Federation 15 for – from RS 11 for. So we have reached a conclusion on the formation of this temporary commission as read. Honored representatives of gentlemen: Vilić, Jovanović, Banjac, Vukić, Lozančić and Mehtić. Thank you. We're going to the fourth point. Ad.4. Forming an investigative committee to investigate a case of weapons finding in Mostar if anyone wants an opening explanation. It's just, there's been a proposal for a respected representative to enter Miro Grabovac-Grabovac-Titan and here's a proposal to be the same. The word has a distinguished representative, 50 Mr Amidžić. We can do it instead of Mr. Vukić if the others agree if they can.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7241	Gentlemen, this is about our determination to form two committees. I think it's really not instead of being the people of both committees, because objectively they should work. It's not possible to work on two jobs important. Therefore, my opinion was that, therefore, there was a new composition of the commission, but I, in front of the club in that other commission, proposed one of the men, one of Mr. Grabovac's members. I think more parliamentarians should participate in this work. Therefore, I find it not good to repeat the complete commission. Maybe someone can do two or three jobs, but I couldn't do two jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7242	Who's calling? The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Mirjanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7243	I'll do it for a while, so we don't make one mistake. We just formed a temporary commission. I suggest that this also be a temporary commission to respect the jurisdiction of the BiH Federation institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7244	I thank the honourable representative of the gentleman, this is where the motioner requested the formation of an investigative commission in line with Posovnik. It says in its Rules of Procedure: establish temporary, or investigative ones. That's what the rules say.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7245	It's temporary.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7246	Ramiz Vilić. Any other suggestions? We have two suggestions so far. Miro Grabovac Titan, Ramiz Vilić. I'd like to do the same in front of those who don't have a club ask, is Mr. Đedović's honourable representative working on this committee? It's not. Here's three suggestions. Do you have any other suggestions? As far as I'm concerned, three is enough. Is it enough three? If you think three MPs are enough. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Mijatović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7247	Gentlemen, I really think that we should act more seriously as parlmentaries, because you see everything that's been discussed so far, I apologize, but it's all prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. There was nothing to discuss. The competence of the Commission shall be laid down by the Rules of Procedure. This is whether it can be at the state level, so that it can't be at the state level and exactly what it says here is that it can and must co-operate at all levels of government, it has even a right with a group of citizens. You've been discussing, can, can't, entity parliament etc. Furthermore, I can't have three gentlemen. Read the Rules of Procedure and there is a consensus and it must be represented by two to three from the Federation and the RS and elected by the president and two vice presidents, and if you determine three, everything will be your presidents, no one will work. Don't be serious. If we form a commission, 51, then we form it according to the Rules of Procedure. If we're not going to form, then say we're not going to form and we're done.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7248	I would like to thank Mr. Mirko Mijatović, the esteemed representative. Who's still answering for the word? This is about permanent commissions. Permanent commissions are prescribed. So, six has been proposed so far. Miro Grbovac-Grbovac-Titan, Ramiz Vilić, Mirko Mijatović, Bahrija Osmanović, Marko Amidžić, Mariofil Ljubić and Zoran Spasojević. Here I am giving up, Spasojević, I think we should have an entity as well. So to conclude that we're forming this temporary commission, which will deal with here above these issues, an investigation into the case of weapons finding in Mostar. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Of 37 for 20 – against 3 – 10 contained. We're going to an entity. Who's from RS for? Who's from the Federation for? Federation for 11 – RS 8 means past. Ad.5. The adoption of a resolution regarding the use of terminology in accordance with the Dayton Agreement Whether anyone wants to before, the word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Mašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7249	I think this resolution as it's termologically addressed, and I need to express such pure nonsense and nonsense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7250	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Mašić. Who's next to the word? Word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Boro Bjelobrk.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7251	I'm proposing this resolution, I just want to say that I'm a supporter of the famous Walters. Sir, I don't agree with you, but I'll do anything to give you the right to speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7252	I would like to thank the esteemed representative, Mr. Bjelobrk. Who's next to the word? Rijeka has a respected representative, Mr. Sead Buturović. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7253	I don't want anything to say about the resolution, but I'm just gonna say this. Based on the experience of the work of the parliaments of the European states, I would suggest here that we consider introducing a code of conduct for each parliamentarian in the assembly, which contains 5-6 points. We can suggest that, if you're interested, this is just like one suggestion to think about Kolgi. What we saw Mr Mirjanić in other parliaments is that our phones don't ring at meetings, etc. Okay. I mean code of conduct.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-29-0.u7254	I thank the esteemed representative, Mr. Sead Buturović, but we will make that one of the following. Only messages can go. Who else is answering for a word? So I'm putting on a statement of resolution regarding the use of terminologists in accordance with the Dayton Agreement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. The abstentions? Of the 38 who pleaded 12 - 22 against - 2 abstentions. So it didn't pass, we don't have to go any further. This concludes this fifth point. We've finished today's agenda. I really thank the distinguished MPs for being both patient and effective though. The session is closed at 8:15.
