ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1718	Dear delegates, MPs of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, honored guests, I am opening the 15th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are 14 envoys – delegates, 5 of them from the Bosniak people, 4 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serb people. Mr Ivo Divković announced his absence at this session of the House of Peoples due to official obligations. Since there is a quorum for full decision for the 15th session, I propose the next agenda. I'll read it for a stenogram of the draft agenda you've got. 1. Answers to delegates' questions and delegates' questions; 2. Journal of the 14th session of the House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 3. Appointment of members of the joint committees of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to reach an agreement on the same text: (a) Law on State Service in BiH Institutions, (b) Law on Consumer Protection in BiH, (c) Law on Copyright and Other Rights in BiH, (d) Law on First Defence in BiH, 4. Declaration on the examination pursuant to Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act - Proposers Tokić-Turjačanin; 5. Declaration on the examination pursuant to Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of People of the Law on Administrative Taxes and Tariffs of Administrative Taxis – Proposers Tokić Turjačanin; 6. Declaration on the examination pursuant to Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations Act amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Taxes – Proposers Tokić-Turkeyn; 7. A statement of consideration of 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations on the establishment of the Institute for Accreditation of BiH – Proposers Tokić-Turkeyn; 8. Declaration on the examination pursuant to Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations Law on the Court – Proposers Tokić-Turjačanin-Turjacanin; 2 9. Declaration on the examination pursuant to Article 100. Rules of Procedure on the work of the People's Home Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH – Proposers Tokić-Turjačanin-Turkeyn; 10. Proposal for a law on the transfer to the regulator and the operator of the system. Energy – Proposer of the Council of Minsitare, as far as I know and this is as per Article 100; 11. A statement by the People's House that the Law on the Purpose and Use of Assets, which BiH receives under the Agreement on Ex-SFRJ Sucession Issues, is being considered under Article 99. Rules of Procedure. The proposer of this law is the Council of Minsitare. Today we need to make a statement about the shortened procedure; 12. Law on the Red Cross/Cross Society of BiH Proposer of the Council of Ministers – First Reading; 13. Proposal for a law on the use and protection of the sign of the Red Cross/Cross and the name of the Red Cross/Brussels Society – Second reading; 14. Law amending and supplementing the Central Bank Act in BiH, Proposer of the Presidency – first reading; 15. BiH's entry into the Council of Europe: (a) Report on the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegation in the Council of Europe for the period June-January 2001. – 2002; b) Opinion of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on BiH's application for membership in the Council of Europe, 234 2002, adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on 22 January 2002, c) Proposal for an Operational Plan, meeting the obligations for BiH to join the Council of Europe in 234 2002, 16. An Annex on the behaviour of BiH institutions and entities officials towards persons so-called Algerian groups, information - the applicant of the Council of Ministers; 17. Law on the administrative procedure of the Proposer of the Council of Minsitare – first reading; 18. Protocol on the establishment and functioning of cultural centres between the Council of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey – Proposed by the BiH Presidency; 19. Agreement on co-operation in the fight against international terrorism, illicit drug trafficking, psychotropic substances, organised crime between the Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Turkey – Proposer of the Presidency; 20. Faculty protocol with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which refers to the sale of children, child prostitution, child pornography, Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 21. Faculty Protocol with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which refers to child engagement on armed conflict – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 22. Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination of Women, also proposed by the BiH Presidency; 23. Development Credit Agreement No 35 38 Community development project between BiH and the International Development Association; 24. Development Loan Agreement 3531 BOS Technical aid project for privatisation between BiH and the International Development Association of the BiH Presidency; 25. Development loan agreement No 353 Second project of the local initiative between BiH and the International Development Association; 3 26. Development Credit Agreement No 3531 – Technical Association Project for Development; 27. The conclusions of the Commission on foreign and trade policy on the travel of parliamentary delegations; 28. Proposal for a resolution on the establishment of guidelines for addressing refugee issues from the Republic of Croatia – Proposer of delegate-legislator Nikola Špirić; 29. Proposal for a resolution on health policy for all citizens of BiH – legislator Ibrahim Spahić; 30. Report on the Commission's work on financial and administrative affairs at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. You got the materials for all the agenda points, only the material for the 26th point of the Foreign Policy Commission's conclusion on whether or not the materials arrived. No, they're not. Shall we adopt? They said that the Commission had finished its work and that we should put it on the agenda, knowing that the Commission and during the session would be adopted. Is the College in agreement? Saglasan. This is a draft agenda by the College, agreed. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Is anyone answering for a word? The word came from Mr. Turjačanin and then Mr. Nikola Špirić. Here's an esteemed delegate to the Turjačanin.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1719	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished fellow delegates, distinguished guests, I would have had the first intervention on the professional service of the House, because I had just switched to my own intervention through the secretary of co-chair Špirić and on my request got the agenda, meaning exclusively, not through regular delivery as I expected to get, but only from the intervention through the co-chair secretary. My phones, or faxes are available, both party and business. I don't see any reason why it couldn't have been delivered past my intervention two days ago. On the other hand, at the last session, I made an observation about the marking, or tiles standing before the delegates. I see that nothing important has improved towards the plates of the Serbian delegates' club, with all the promise of the chairman that it will be corrected by this session.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1720	With the conclusion that your remarks do not have the character of the debate on the agenda of today's House session, I would ask all delegates, the envoys of all the remarks you have on the functioning of the Service, to present this to the sekretar of the dom in accordance with your professional rights, and to the duties of the Secretary of the House. The Secretary of the House will hear you the same way when you tell him that in your office or his office as here. Therefore, I will not allow future discussions between the envoys – delegates, members of this house with the Service and the Secretariat to be held at the House session, since both the secretaries and the services and the envoys are paid to do so past the House. 4 For a word, I believe in the draft agenda, the honourable envoy, Nikola Špirić, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1721	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished fellow delegates, esteemed guests, I will give one of my general evaluations on the offered agenda and a proposal for a new point of the agenda. In fact, if we analyse this agenda, then we can come to an understanding of what all the situations are brought into the homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, when it comes to legislative projects, which are important for the BiH state. But all of this is, of course, within the Rules of Procedure and that's why I'm also in the College, the only possibility is that this is the agenda we're conjecturing, but I want to draw your attention to today's session and we're looking at 12 legal projects. So 12 legal projects, 7 is per article 100. The Rules of Procedure, therefore, without the right of delegates to amendments, one in a short procedure, and only four in a regular procedure, which will say that 80% of legal projects, or 70% of legal projects pass only formally through this home. I believe that's the situation in another home and in Article 100. The Rules of Procedure explicitly state that law-making projects can only go with a strong explanation of the degree of necessity and if they are written simply that they can be accepted or rejected as a whole. I do not want to talk, of course, about the content of the law that will be, when these laws come to your agenda, but I am talking about a procedure that is not good for the future of the BiH Parliament. It would be good if we had the strength to talk about all the legal projects that, preferably with maximum compromises through amendments, we came to legal projects, because that is certainly the best thing for BiH. So, that's my general assessment, with the business impossible to prevent both delegates and MPs from seeking a statement of urgency. So it's a business obligation and for these reasons, the College has no alternative but to offer Dom such a agenda. The other thing I'm going to talk about is that, I want to offer a new agenda point, in the light of a short resolution, and here I'm going to try to figure out what this is about and if, of course, I'm going to share that material with all the delegates and those present in the hall. In fact, we are witnessing that BiH is being led, I would say, to conduct discussions on the implementation, that is, of the Constitutional Court of BiH's decision to bring the entity constitutions in line with the BiH Constitution. It seems to me that these discussions within BiH have also come up with and I think they will deliver a good result and I want to believe that the BiH authorities, therefore, all those concerned by the Constitution, will have the strength to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. But what is happening outside BiH, which comes across various political polemics, creates additional tensions within BiH, and I would say is causing great damage to BiH because the debates outside BiH are of a character that the BiH Constitution can change different stories and attempts to define the amendments outside BiH. This is not good, and I think BiH and its official state authorities must have a clear view no matter where those stories come from. I think that we are the only contributor to BiH's sovereignty and the fight for BiH's sovereignty can give a clear view that we are able to condemn everything that is involved in BiH's internal affairs and that, of course, we are able to create solutions within BiH that are of interest to BiH and its citizens and entities. 5 In this sense, I have proposed a new item of the agenda for a short resolution, so here I will try to explain it to you to read it. Responding to attempts to create ambience and to shape public opinion in BiH that it is possible to change the BiH Constitution as well as the different alignment of entity constitutions with the BiH Constitution and amendments defined outside BiH's borders, which warns us about the tones of the visit of a delegation of political parties in the order of the Croatian people, the highest representatives of the government of the Republic of Croatia, which has inflicted and still inflicted unspeakable consequences on BiH, based on Article 114. Rules of Procedure of the People's House, I propose that the House of Peoples consider and adopt a resolution on the protection of BiH's legal and political subjectivity in the process of harmonising entity constitutions with the BiH Constitution. 1. Public, professional and other discussions on the scope and quality of the amendments made to the entity's constitutions in order to implement the Constitutional Court's decision on the consistency of the people.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1722	I'd like to ask you, if you can only stay at the reasoning point of the agenda, not on the content of the material.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1723	I won't read the contents until the end, just to explain. Any other debates concerning BiH's constitutional and legal arrangement can only be conducted within BiH, i.e. with the involvement of the authorities and institutions established by the constitutions and laws of BiH and its entities. All other activities that are within the meaning of point 1 of this resolution are carried out outside BiH's territory with representatives of the authorities of foreign government, involving entities that are not the official representatives of the BiH institutions and its entities, will be considered as interference in BiH's internal affairs. The BiH presidency and the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs are tasked with giving the appropriate diplomatic note or other act to warn him that such activities represent interference in BiH's internal affairs immediately after knowledge of the facts set out in point 2 of this resolution. Please, I would now like to say that this invitation to the departure of the parties of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia and to talk, perhaps my colleagues in the order of the Croatian people can irritate in one way or another. I think this resolution, that there is a substantive resolution in that tone that no matter where we come from, therefore, the text of the resolution does not mention it, but simply wants to create an ambience, that the authorities in BiH must assume their own fate in this case. If that came from the SR Yugoslavia, my position would be the same. So I'm asking that this be classified as a item of the agenda, and the delegates will simply express their relationship with the state's sovereignty in the constitution we have sworn. Thank you very much. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1724	Thank you very much. Please, we are now in a phase of recording new proposals for amending and supplementing the agenda. We're going to open a debate on every proposal, so I'd like to ask you to go through the motion procedure first, and then we'll discuss every proposal in accordance with the procedure. What do you got? It's a new proposal. On behalf of the commission to remove one item of the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1725	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, distinguished guests, the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy is at its session of 15 February o.g. Having received late materials, the delegates asked that, that... regarding the plea of that point be extended and to be held today before the House of Nations session. We held this session this morning, and the suggestion is that the members of the Commission, therefore, by the majority statement of the College of the House of Peoples and the House, should point 15. BiH's admission to the Council of Europe takes off and allows the delegates 30 days to make their remarks, since, in particular, the disputed point c) is a proposal for an operational plan to meet the obligations for BiH to join the Council of Europe, as we consider that as the operational plan is proposed, it is not an operational plan but it is literally prescribed what is in point d). Therefore, it would be good to propose to the College that within 30, all delegates submit their suggestions and observations, in the meantime, two colleges of both homes agree on this, because it should be a unique text and then dom refer it to the Commission, given that there is nothing urgent and that we have enough time for this material, i.e. this point c) to be prepared in the right way, and that, at one of the next meetings, we end it. That's our suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1726	Okay. I thank Mr. Ilić. We are registering proposals for changes and additions to the agenda. I don't understand. I'm asking you to report in good time for a draft agenda so we can hold a session. Does anyone else report for new amendments and additions to the agenda? Dear Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1727	I don't see any respected colleagues who aren't here on time. As we discuss the agenda, the delegate will register and propose an addition to the agenda. That's one thing. But, indeed, I see it inadmissible to continue the established practice that the draft agenda is delivered to MPs three days before the session is held and this proposal for a agenda containing 30 points in it. It is a harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure, and with this practice, the College should indeed stop. Especially if session 7 The People's Smoke is scheduled a month in advance and it is known that a month ago this session will be held today. It's a business intervention. From this agenda, as far as I could manage for this unfulfilled three days, I'm having a lot of misunderstandings, so I'm going to try to correct and align that agenda with the needs and make some suggestions. First of all, I suggest adding a agenda item called the establishment of deadlines for the implementation of the House of Nations' business obligation to develop a work plan for the House for 2002. Explanation. A business obligation has been laid down for each year by the College to establish a work plan for each period of work for the House. Last year this house worked without a work plan, here's the second month of this year passed by the College and did not mention the work plan of the House. The Council of Ministers held its work programme last year, and the work programme envisioned around 65 laws to be delivered to the parliamentary procedure by November of last year. Of these 65 laws, 26 laws have been passed, and 15 laws have been prepared in advance. Not to say that since the 16th set of laws in the areas that have regulated or intended to regulate the reintegration of a single economic space and the launch of economic reforms, only two or three laws have been passed. We haven't been able to get married in accordance with our program appreciate how it works. For these reasons, I propose to include this item of the agenda, where you would today conclude within what time period the College will prepare a orientation plan and, of course, prepare in the same move a report by the Council of Ministers to discuss the work of the Council of Ministers for the past year. That's one question. The second proposal to supplement the agenda is a point called the Information on the measures taken by the College of the House of Peoples to adopt the Budget of the Institutions within the time limit set by the Rules of Procedure of the House. In fact, the Rules of Procedure established a clear obligation that the College should take all measures necessary to adopt the budget for institutions and resolve BiH's obligations to international institutions by 15 December. I'm familiar with the public that the Bureau has established Budget. The delegates were presented with Budget, Budget Proposal and Budget Implementation Bill. Of course, there is an obligation for the House of Representatives to consider. However, without any explanation today, the end of February is neither on the agenda nor on the budget proposal nor on the subject, nor is the mention of the budget. Because of the college's obligation to do whatever it takes for Budget to be adopted in good time, I suggest this point to be informed by the College of what it has done to ensure that this point is not placed on the agenda. I deliver the proposal of the agenda point in writing. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1728	I thank Mr. Genjac. If no one is reporting for the proposal for additions, amendments, agendas anymore, I would conclude this phase when new points or amendments to the agenda are proposed and I would move to a debate on individual proposals, and there were three proposals from a respected colleague, Špirić, a respected colleague of Ilić and Mr Genjac for changes and addition of the agenda. The debate on their proposals will be conducted in order as proposed. Mr Špirće's first proposal concerned the adoption, inclusion of the agenda item on the resolution. I am opening a debate on this proposal to amend and supplement the agenda of Nikola Špirić. The honorable envoy Ilija Šimić came to the floor. Here you go, Mr. Šimić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1729	Dear colleagues, distinguished guests, respected ministers, of course, will not agree to include the item on the agenda of fellow Špirić, and I will not be surprised by the way and should be surprised by the sky which is why I am hearing about this point here. The College, according to the Rules of Procedure and according to its professional habitat, is that it should also be according to its collegiate work as it says, should establish the agenda before this session and we had the chance to at least inform each other. So, I don't like practice and I'm surprised by Mr. Špirić that a member of the College, I'm not going into whether Chairman Tokić was counting on this proposal, but here's the surprise I can do, I've expressed it publicly, but to me it's a completely clear rebellion. This is about a very rigid political stance targeted, aimed at making a media point. I must, unfortunately, speak this way to my fellow Špirić, and most importantly, the problem of constitutional change is to try to dislocate from his being in his periphery. That's why I didn't. When it comes to the discussion of a group of political parties in Zagreb, I think it is completely deplaceable to introduce it into this high house, and if it is necessary for a fellow Špirić, I will say that the parties who were there have made their views very clear to each individual and joint constitutional changes in their own name very clearly, I would like Mr Špirić to make it very clear in any way, but not yet in this house, because there is no time. rigidan's stance concerns the political and constitutional theory to say so because important political and constitutional issues of all sovereign countries are allowed to speak elsewhere, such as the UN, etc., and the Dayton state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which I am now very immodest and pathetic with the ferocity of building and building, unfortunately must be spoken beyond Bosnia and Herzegovina. When that doesn't need me, I'll be very happy, so I'm opposed to including this item on the agenda. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1731	Is anyone else answering for word? Replica Mr. Špirić. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1732	Ladies and gentlemen, I thought if the point were to be the subject of the agenda that we could discuss the content of the Resolution. So each delegate will build their relationship to this resolution and accept the agenda or not. I don't think there's a clearer man in this country than Nikola Špirić. It's just that the clarity I'm saying is not easy. I am taking my view on constitutional changes when there is a point of the agenda I will Decidence to say here and everywhere publicly within my country. But you see, it can't just be not good for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Perhaps this time it was a delegation that went to Croatia, the second time it will go to Yugoslavia, etc. So on constitutional changes on the essence, content can, by the Constitution of the defined institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, discuss and seek solutions and that's good. I do not think that Croatia as a sovereign state should not help the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina in one way or another, but the way in which it took into account whether or not it was accidentally or intentionally good for Bosnia and Herzegovina. What we in Bosnia and Herzegovina have. If every political party comes out and says it is interference with Bosnia and Herzegovina's internal affairs, and there is no response from state authorities. Now that is the position of Bosnia and Herzegovina when the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina are able to say.... Then it will be what Bosnia and Herzegovina should be. I ask you therefore, I have no reason, I respect my colleague Ilija, it is the right of the delegates to offer a business resolution to Parliament, such as Parliament's right to classify, reject or accept this resolution. But this is a time when we need to open things up without being surprised or not. So their relationship will show people a discussion and way of voting. I respect my colleague Ilija, and I appreciate what he says, simply to amaze him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1733	I thank both one and the other members of the College for their mutual respect and suggest that the following debate be taken on this proposal to supplement the agenda of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, which is Mr Spahić, as I have noticed, and I ask the others to report in order to do so. So we're only talking about this proposal. And we'll consider other suggestions.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1734	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen who make Dom either as representatives of the Council of Ministers who have taken care of the Genre Program, whether we are exclusively men in this House of Peoples, we represent essentially the population of these three peoples in sexual terms. 10 I would like something to do with the rigid attitudes that Mr. Šimić spoke about and with the rigid statement we heard, which is the famous pop boom pop, but it didn't end the way it started with Stip Šuvar, so we have an epilogue in modern times about 15 years later. And when it comes to processes in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I look forward to having such a strong commitment that we heard in Mr Špirić's statement that things are placed on the agenda in the institutions of the system. It's okay, I think you know my public position because right now until Monday I hope to chair the Alliance of Democratic Change, I would like to remind you that, after all these peripheries in public, a statement by the official representatives of the Council of Ministers of Foreign Affairs as a statement by the official representatives of the Republic of Croatia given in bilateral exchanges and given in different contexts of the international community, meetings on various occasions which are treated as politically clearly defining that the partner for the discussion between the two countries is above all what the state institutions are doing. So Council of Ministers, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Parliament, etc. As far as the political partner is concerned, it is clear in Mr Picula's last statement with Mr Petrič that the primary partner is the Alliance for Democratic Change. This is a precise statement that came after all these events in which from Stup and Doglad to Zagreb and today's meeting at the House of Nations we had the opportunity to hear in different statements from different politicians in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Europe and neighbouring countries. I would like to say to the team that, for us now, the concentrated issue is about this debate and two opposition opinions, which can be treated in any way you do in the name of your political action and your philosophy and your work and responsibility for feeling what it means to be responsible for what appears to be political, I would say play or fight if you want to come up with the best solutions. The most important question is the one that is not asked, which is now finally open in the middle, and I am glad that I heard it from Mr Špirić on the one hand, on the other hand from Mr Šimić. And that's the most important thing about what happened in this controversy. It's a minor resolution. The most important thing is that there was actually a question of why this home, the House of Peoples, which, by the definition of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is responsible for the protection of national interests has one of the mechanisms for protecting national interests either in the Bosniaks, Serbs and Croats, up to this moment, and I have warned on three times that it had neither received nor received any information, nor was it in the course of formal notice, means formally through the office, through the College to the delegates on the course of debate in both the constitutional commission of the Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH and I would suggest for a short time - that we give up the out-of-wiseness of the resolution, that the conclusion today on this proposal and the debate we heard from the two members of the College that the House of People officially request information from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to engage in the active debate on the constitutional amendments to these two constitutions, because it is directly related to all of this Houses and to this House and to the Tokić. That's why...the people of BiH. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1735	I thank the envoy. Mr. Novaković answered for the word, then Mr. Živković, then Mr. Genjac. I'd just like to ask you. We have a business opportunity to refer this resolution to the Commission, and so we come up with a more content debate, not a debate on whether it's on the agenda, that it's a single solution. And secondly, I would ask you to keep in mind that today is the day ahead of Bajram and that by estimating that fact, the College has concluded that we will be working until 3 o'clock, that it would be very useful to approach the realization of the agenda, and to direct your future discussions, given that the proposal is very clear therefore. Mr. Špirić wants to put it on the agenda. There is a possibility not to put it in place, there is a possibility that, in accordance with the Dom Rules of Procedure, it will decide to refer it to the commission. There. Here you go, Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1736	Dear fellow delegates, I only want to express one reserve according to Mr Spahić's proposal. I wouldn't mind asking this house for information on the ongoing constitutional debate, but only in the form of information. In no way is this house going into debate about constitutional changes in the entity constitutions, because we have neither the right nor the need to do so. So it's in the exclusive jurisdiction of the entity's parliaments, and that's why I'm expressing the reserve according to this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1737	I must tell you that as chairman, I have not taken into consideration Mr Spahić's proposal at all, since we have exhausted initiatives to supplement and amend the agenda and now we are only talking about Mr Špirić's initiative to include this resolution as a part of the Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1738	Mr. Chairman, fellow envoys, distinguished guests, I would ask you, regardless of what the chairman has asked for to be done by 3 o'clock, that on behalf of the Club of Envoys of the Croatian People before saying about the resolution submitted by Mr. Špirić I request a break on behalf of the 15-minute Club. So before the plea. Before declaring the resolution, we are looking for
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1739	We can hold a debate on the agenda just before the plea. Thank you very much. It's registered. Is anyone else answering? Excuse me, Mr. Genjac has already answered his word. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1740	Dear colleagues, I think that issues addressed by the issue of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and issues concerning the indisputable international subjectivity and sovereignty of Bosnia and Herzegovina should not be addressed by a special resolution. For me, this issue is the departure of the delegation and representatives of the parties with the Croatian sign party issue, and it is a matter of parties in power, so the issue of the Alliance and parties that are participating with the Croatian sign in the Alliance. And that question needs to be resolved in a national way. Mr. Pikula's statement that he prefers co-operation with authorities and with the Alijans in Bosnia and Herzegovina further confirms that and I think it should be treated that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1741	Thank you. It's Picula. Is anyone else answering for word? We have now actually come to the plea period. I'm taking a 15-minute break. Please don't let this break last any longer, and I ask you to take care of the alignment of the possibility that, in addition to rejection or acceptance, there is a possibility of giving to the commission. [[/pause 15 minutes.]] I will remind you that we took a break at the moment before saying about Mr Špirić's proposal to include a special resolution on the protection of Bosnia and Herzegovina's legal and political subjectivity in the process of harmonising entity constitutions with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's what the motion for a resolution is called. The Croatian envoys' club requested a break. This is a situation where we should just approach the plea of business, I beg you. The debate is concluded only by the rules of procedure of accession. If, of course, most envoys ask to continue the debate, I will not prevent the debate, but it implies that the danger of prolonging a statement on a proposal to supplement the agenda and to continue the work. Is the Club of Croatian Envoys insisting on words? Dear Ambassador Ivo Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1742	On behalf of the club, I think it's correct that we're looking for a break or a break to briefly explain why we did it. So, the Croatian Club and the Croatian Representatives' Club at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina refuses to include Mr Nikola Špirić's resolution on the resolution on the protection of Bosnia and Herzegovina's legal and political subjectivity on the agenda of today's session. I personally appreciate Mr Špirić's very high involvement in this House since we have been in this conference, but I think this is the same kind of politics and politicisation and the detour of the real problems over the current harmonisation of the entity's constitution with the BiH Constitution on something that this 13 moment really is neither current nor relevant and which has been raised too much dust lately in public because of a party visit that took place in Zagreb by Croatian Prime Minister Ivica Račan. I think that my extra concerns for Bosnia and Herzegovina, which I appreciate Mr Špirić, should be expressed exactly and he made it clear that he will do so to come to the agenda through his contribution in both Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina around the harmonisation of the entity's constitution with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that is the place where we should all engage in the next period. As regards these visits to all institutions in both the world and Europe and the UN and all neighbouring countries that are signatories of the Peace Agreement, they have both the obligation and the interest to discuss the fate of Bosnia and Herzegovina and therefore to make their constructive contribution to making the country work as a normal state as soon as possible in its full scope and capacity. So, this power in Croatia, and I think it is absolutely clear to everyone that Mesić, Tomčić and Račan are resonating, has absolutely changed their policy towards Bosnia and Herzegovina by experiencing it as a sovereign and independent and good neighbouring state and wanting to build it up as best they can. And as a signator of the Dayton Peace Agreement, he has the right and the obligation and interest to make his contribution to make this happen as soon as possible. So, I repeat once again that the Club of Croats in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina explicitly refuses to put such a resolution on the agenda and if there is a statement, the Croats will plead against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1743	In fact, now after this statement, the Croatian Club is opening a new round of discussions, since this is a very important political issue, I suggest we start the debate. Sir, or you will, Mr. Špirić and the replicas and everything as a pronoun, in the end, not to jump in with your replicas at any moment. Here you go, Mr. Jusufović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1744	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that in relation to this proposed item of the agenda we leave room for ourselves, given that the activities are under way at the implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision. I also take into account that the Council of Ministers has in a certain way had some activity on these issues and we have received certain answers. In the context of circumstances, since it is both in one entity and in another in constitutional changes that in a certain way, we have met all of us are having very intense talks between the representatives of the largest number of political parties in entities, or at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that we are today not explaining this issue but leaving it, because we will be able to talk about constitutional changes in the coming period, because it will surely follow some more detailed information. 14 For these reasons to bypass this item of the agenda today and give it space when it is, but in the context of constitutional changes, not particularly about resolutions, because I agree that it is a question, the issue of constitutional change is a fundamental issue and it cannot be solved by some resolutions. I don't know if I made myself clear. For these reasons, I suggest we don't plead today.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1745	In a way that we can refer this question to the commission whether or not it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1746	No, no. Not even to the commission, because that would mean in a certain way that we devalue the essence of this issue that was put on the agenda here today. But within the framework, we will have information about constitutional changes very soon. We'll deal with it, too. If they don't, they're going to ask because eventually you from the College can ask for it, and that in the context of constitutional changes, we talk about essential issues.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1747	I thank the esteemed envoy highly for the positive motivation of Mr Jusufović, we do not have business, I repeat. Procedureally, we can refuse Mr Špirić's proposal, accept Mr Špirić's proposal or refer to the commission. There's no fourth option. A Špirić can do that, it's true. Then we will consider this discussion as a well-intentioned suggestion to the esteemed envoy, Mr. Špirić. For God's sake, who answered the word? Mr. Spahić. I didn't see any hand.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1748	... I'd like to say that my proposal must have been very clear. I am commenting on the proposal made by Mr Špirić and the debate which was opened by Mr Šimić, the current break and the position of the Club of Delegates of the Croatians in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, thought that even after this statement by Mr Jusufović, we will come to a point of understanding of the essence of this resolution, and that point of understanding is voiced – the conclusion of the House of Peoples is bound by the College to request information from both homes, so from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Federation of BiH, therefore from both parliaments of the two entities and the National Assembly of Republika Srpska's information, complete fullness of the constitutional amendments and the course of the discussions on these issues and what everyone here swears in Bosnia and Herzegovina that issues of constitutional change in Bosnia and Herzegovina are necessarily resolved within the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, within the parliaments of the entities and in the relevant places. The essence of this debate, therefore, is how I understood it and Špirić and the debate we have heard that we should finally take our responsibility as the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to say to engage actively in this debate beyond our special public political acts that involve us as politicians or as party representatives or as members of the College or as delegates. 15 I have concluded on this initiative that, first of all, it comes to this because we as the House of Peoples responsible for the protection of national interests are not in any way formed as the House of Peoples, as the institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the debate on the protection of national interests or the full equality of all the peoples of minorities. If this house could be adopted during last year by the Law on the Protection of National Minorities and given such a clear signal that it deals and cares for every citizen of every ethnic community then this House has in its name the House of Peoples of BiH and responsibility, I have said and mentioned the visions of Mr. Tokić, who is the chairman of this home who has repeatedly intervened in connection with constitutional changes as I have, as well as Šimić and Špirić, as each of us. I'm only talking about people who are currently involved in the debate. For me, it is our primary responsibility that this debate does not pass the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. And that's the point. And this whole other thing is actually repacking I'd say day-to-day politically that has strategic significance. There are no delegates here at the Club of Croats or Bosniaks or Serbs who accept any intervention from other neighbouring and external states to regulate Bosnia and Herzegovina's constitutional system and changes in the constitution. It's undeniable. There is no resolution on uncontestable matters, but should be shown as when it comes to the laws that we are in our country responsible for issues that are vital to BiH citizens. In this case, everyone speaks every day to hundreds of addresses that are the problem of Croats, which is the problem of Serbs, which is the problem of Bosniaks, national minorities and citizens. There's no way this house is getting out of this debate. He can't wait for the end in that sense to say well we'll change those five gaps and how much there is in the electoral code by emergency procedure and let's go to the polls and bye-bye because the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina is changing and that's every reasonable man, smartly clear. We can open a hundred debates, but the essence in both such and such cases when it comes to the fate and equality of citizens, minorities and peoples, here I am now saying Serbs, Croats and Bosniaks can't go to the House of Peoples made up of Serbian clubs, Croats and Bosniaks outside that debate. So it would be better if we had not a resolution, but the conclusion that we are taking responsibility for the initiative to actively engage as part of these BiH institutions. This is the most responsible institution in this regard. Don't talk about it, I mean it's something to say more than visible. Here sits five Croats, five Serbs.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1749	I'd be begging you if you really did.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1750	So my position is not to help untangle this situation in terms of don't Špirić with this resolution or go, insist that we clear ourselves up, etc. Špirić said it concerns not only Bosnia and Herzegovina's relations, but Bosnia and Herzegovina as well. But we are not reduced in Croatia and Yugoslavia, we are reduced to what Turkish Ambassador Erozan said in a conversation with Mr Lagumdžija and that is clear. We do not participate in any constitutional reforms in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are a member of the Peace Implementation Council and we seek to work consistently on implementation and decision-making of the Dayton Agreement and strengthening decisions made by politicians and institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And there was an official statement about it. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1751	I'll have to take your word for it. Let's get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1752	You don't have to take my word from me. I took it from myself.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1753	Three minutes is yours. Is anyone else answering for a word next to me that I answered for?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1754	The word has its chairman, Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1755	Ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed envoys of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, of course, the issue of agreeing the entity's constitution with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is a first-class political issue and I am not surprised that other issues are trying to be mixed on this issue in order to mask the essence of a process that has been unacceptably late. It has been more than a year and a half since it was published in Bosnia and Herzegovina's official messenger, the Constitutional Court's decision, which is binding. All that came after this began to look more like a bargaining process if we were to implement the Constitutional Court's decision under quotes and how much we would spend and how much equality we would give to the people of each entity. It's not a decision of the essence of the Constitutional Court. That's not the essence of the Constitutional Court's decision. In this context, of course, in my opinion, at least three things are mixed, three issues that are very important and which this home may need to consider, but completely separate. One is constitutional reform, changes to BiH legislation that we know are being initiated. We have definitely made a decision by the Parliamentary Assembly in the Council of Europe and have determined that if there are amendments to the Constitution, and they should be that it will be in this parliamentary assembly by the will of all three peoples and that there are no new international conferences or tutors that will talk about what direction reforms should be made. The issue is completely separate from the issue of compliance with the entity's constitution. Completely separate. Whoever wants to initiate them has a procedure to initiate changes to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this context, some have already initiated these changes, and it is perfectly legitimate for me and it is not taboo and whoever looks at the conditions for entry into the WE will see that this is where it is likely to go. The second question that's been mixed up here and it's skillfully related to the neighbors. With Bosnia and Herzegovina's entry into the VE, the position of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has changed significantly in relation to their guarantee of the Dayton Peace Agreement. It's a reality. The position of these two states has changed. Of course, we could spend hours and hours discussing what benevolent consultation talks are, and what is interference in internal affairs. Interference in internal affairs is safe when Mr. Tomac puts it, suggests a agenda item on the Croatian foreign political committee bearing the name - the internal political situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is a interference in Bosnia and Herzegovina's internal affairs, and in this direction, the foreign ministry reacted. The interference in internal affairs is when, I don't know what word he would use to not be too simple, but to paint all the balance of one policy is when Tomac in Istanbul proposes to Turkish parliamentarians that they be included in Bosnia and Herzegovina's constitutional changes as an interested party. According to the parallelism that reminds us overwhelmingly whether what the most re-progressive policies in direct history have refused, which is that here I neither know the protagonists of the three nations under the patronage of the three states nor so. Pretty much. It is a interference in internal affairs and, of course, from that aspect, if that is what Špirić meant, Špirić is right. But where Špirić is wrong. Because similar elements of drastic interference in internal affairs and political incidents made by Mr. Koštunica have not responded with a similar resolution in this home or in public. Of course, I would be very happy that within this resolution and those elements of interference in the internal affairs that have been and which someone still imagines are being seen. In this context, for me, the resolution as an expression of the House's position on relevant political issues can be considered, but it should be balanced, it should be subject to a good debate, must not be the subject of manipulation and may be a useful thing for both Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Serbs and for the Croats and the Bosniaks because simply from the whole context they can show that time has passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1756	I ask Mr. Tokić to stick to time.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1757	Here I come, Mr. Chairman. The past times when Serbs looked at Belgrade, Hrvat at Zagreb, and I don't know whether the Bosniaks were watching, and those who watched must have learned something from the direct history lesson from this direct history. Had it not been for the sake of this view, and that only within Bosnia and Herzegovina as representatives of political parties, as peoples and citizens, as elected envoys in this House should we address issues. Of course, in these hot debates in which two members of the College take part, this proposal may not act in compromise, but I believe that at a meeting, I am giving this proposal an official home – that the resolution with this title does not have to be with this content, so the final text to which we will be referred to the committee responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and this House has the right to plead on this proposal as an equal proposal relating to this item of the agenda to be accepted or rejected, i.e. to the House's conclusion to the Commission for consideration. Thanks for the apology to break through these three minutes. Please, of course not, just to see who's answering all the words. Spahić, Novaković, any more replicas. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1758	My replica refers only to the essence of things when something is called by name, it simply exists in the procedure of the House of Peoples as you well know my proposal for an amendment to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina which, if not now, in a month's time on the agenda, wanted to avoid both the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Civil Affairs was set up under this proposal, recommended in one case and another that after the process was completed, so my colleagues knew about the change of the constitution in entities to approach the examination of these issues. So it kind of fits. So that's politics. But let's do something concrete now. I think Mr. Tokić's proposal, very much, since the replica refers to the appointment of something that exists signed and was done from this house more than a year ago. I believe Mr Tokić has found one solution that could be called this. It is a proposal to adopt a resolution on the protection of Bosnia and Herzegovina's legal and political integrity, but without this process of agreeing with the BiH Constitution, because it turns out that as Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are actually looking at problems, and that's what I've been talking about and always using, as I would say to the Equidistan when and when I don't have to. It is necessary in relation to neighbours and it is a Bosnian policy as defined through various decades and centuries by what is called the political idea and thought of Bosnia and Herzegovina before the first world war between two world wars in the course of and after in the famous formulations of different sessions and decisions. This constitution, so Bosnia and Herzegovina obviously has, I once asked me about these notes the other day what about notes about these cases that appear, I said you know, since I've been doing foreign policy for a long time I noticed that only one of the countries that has the least notes when it takes them most. It means something that declares a thing. So I suggest that you might not make the three-and-a-half if you really thought about the proposal made by Mr. Munib Jusufović, which I have given as a conclusion and to locate the thing in the right place. In the debate, we made clear our position and attitude towards not mixing any neighbours, any other third country in this case, Turkey itself, which has expressed its position. I think it is important that we today have had a debate that declares things, but does not lead us into any politicisation of things that will destroy the good will that seems to me to be building towards the path of a common position that will still come to a resolution in the parliaments of both entities and the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives of Parliamentary BiH. Do not mix politics with the position of legislative authorities because the policy as well as Tokić has been assessed. Of course, when plans are mixed, it is dangerous for one document that becomes a resolution to bind itself to one particular case and avoids responsibility for the overall functioning of this home. That's my attitude.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1759	Okay. Mr. Novaković, here you go, distinguished delegate, president of the Serbian delegates' club Novaković. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1760	My fellow delegates, I first have one parliamentary, or delegational intervention of the business character with a view to the fact that Mr. Chairman, in his discussion, went beyond the agenda, that is to say, not to discuss the agenda and to put this point on the agenda, but to the character of the resolution on the character of the resolution itself, which he entered into the debate on the resolution. But that went well. I just want to say two things here. The first seems to be an attempt to avoid a statement of resolution. I share those who do, I understand the reasons why it's not wise for some here to be told whether or not they are, and then a resolution that has nothing to do with politicization, which I just got here and read are called political or I don't know. I understand that, and I don't have to tell the public why, and the public knows why and why some don't want to make a statement. Gentlemen, the proposal for this to go to the committee makes this resolution immaterial, because in the title, and later in the opening part of the resolution it clearly states that it is the result of creating ambience and forming a public change around constitutional changes that must end in March according to OHR's views and, of course, all relevant factors. Any reference to the commission means that the debate on this issue will not and should not be taken into account and declared. That is why I am explicitly against referring to the commission and any conclusions regarding this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1761	Thank you. I'd just ask for a clear explanation. All the motions so far for resolutions proposed to this home have been on board, only in terms of qualifications. So no resolution of any envoys, delegates so far has been adopted. Therefore, it is purely as further information. Mr. Špirić picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1762	Ladies and gentlemen, you see, I am of course not angry that everything but the resolution has been discussed. And that's what it's called politics. So this is politics, and the resolution is the thing that is written and the delegate will express his relationship to it by voting for or against. I don't want to call the Rules of Procedure. The delegate can offer a resolution to the House of Peoples. The home can accept it or reject it without commissions pleading for a resolution. He can if he's interested in going to the board, but there's just no business obligation. What Mr. Ibro said was leniency in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here she is today at work. Here's today's debauchery in action. Gentlemen, this isn't a matter of polycythnicity. If what I have submitted to the resolution is politics, and what was happening in Zagreb or what was happening in Belgrade is a policy that is difficult for us. So if it's not politics, it's serious then this resolution makes sense. And how it makes sense. The second thing is whether we have the strength for the sake of different agreements made in Bosnia and Herzegovina to look the truth in the eye. Whether Serbs, Croats, Bosniaks are constructive nations or 20 feel like minorities and seek the protection of the queen. Are they or aren't they? It's all serious questions. So I'm not going to go into these questions, but I'm saying that this isn't politics that I'm doing with the resolution. The second thing says Špirić shows extra concern for Bosnia and Herzegovina. You can think of sentences. Excessive concerns for a country where they can do whatever they want, so it's too much to worry about, and when I call people who on substance in two and a half months by selling gold, they lose 11 million marks. And that's a bit of a worry at a time when pensioners don't have pensions and people are hungry. Is that extra worry or pointing to problems?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1763	Let's leave that gold. There's a point later.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1764	Okay. Please, everyone's been arguing. They are not regulated by the resolution of gentlemen, nor is the intention of a resolution of constitutional change and the course of constitutional changes, but are called on to lead in the constitution of the defined institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, rather than outside it. So please, let's talk about the essence, not how anyone would like to see Nikola Špirić. Whether he's ugly or handsome, obstructive, destructive, character of one or another, smiling, crushed, politician or not. It's a matter of people's individual thinking. Nikola Špirić, as a delegate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of this House, offered a resolution in which point 1 reads - public expert discussions on the scope and quality of the changes being made in entity constitutions in order to implement the Constitutional Court Decision on the constitutionalness of the people in the whole territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or any other debate concerning the constitutional legal arrangement of Bosnia and Herzegovina can only be conducted within Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1765	Please, we already had that text in the stenogram. They've got emissaries. Don't read.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1766	Let me just finish my sentence, please don't interrupt me, with regard to the involvement of the body of the institutions established by the Constitution and the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its entities. What's extra in this? So shall we respect that the Constitution of the competent institutions is doing their part of the job. Who can be against this attitude, and why? That's what I'm interested in. So where is anyone mentioned here? To speak a second and a third attitude. They say there was no interference of neighbouring states here. Then Mr. Tokić convinces me and says the MP reacted, so then Ibro tells me Picula said he's working with the Alijans. Does that mean if someone's working with the Alijans, there's nothing else they can do about it? What will be I wonder if someone tomorrow, here's Nikola Špirić goes to Belgrade and there says, please nice, let's say some nebuloso politically, I'm for the secession of Republika Srpska, and then I say that I said that as the president of the political party. That's the answer to what you're defending. Is that good for Bosnia and Herzegovina? It's not. 21 I beg you therefore may vote for, you may vote against, I beg you to talk about the essence. Don't give, I don't get into grades like a delegate, and I'm asking you to keep an eye on it. The point is that a resolution has been offered, the point is to say what's wrong with it, what you'd like to throw out or throw out everything and vote yes or no. But talking outside the resolution about everything that isn't the content of the resolution is politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1767	The word's been answered. You'll be the first to answer. Šimić, Sušac, or you'll think about it after Šimić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1768	No, it's not that order. So I remind me after almost two, may I, Mr. Chairman? May I remind you, then, that we are discussing the agenda. I'm afraid we've lost sight of the secretary, please, while the consultations take place.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1769	I don't appreciate the importance of your exposure, but trust the envoys who want to listen can listen. There's no reason for you to wait for a secretary who's just begging for juices and refreshments for the envoys, but I appreciate you, please listen to Jadranko.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1770	I'm a very esteemed colleague of mine, and I appreciate your presidency, and I'm saying something about it. So we're discussing the agenda. It's almost two hours and I remind you of that, because we must have forgotten. I object to the proposed agenda point being placed on two totally simple and logical principles. The first wrong way is to delegate this point, and the second is also a completely wrong reason to try to justify a big and important issue being placed in this important home. So much for that. And now for the College. It is obvious here that the College is not working, because that works, that's the word for today, just for today I pray, that today at this session that will be ruined the College would be acting chaired by asking for a break, not by the Croatian Representatives' Club when he saw that there was no possibility in the College to agree on the agenda. Secondly, it is obvious in this case when Mr. Tokić knows what Špirić is and thought of proposing a resolution that two members of the College have agreed to propose a agenda point here without the third one which I, of course, refuse and I think, will not allow this to produce a crisis in the work of the College. We waste unnecessary time. You know why a respected colleague? Because it needed a political performance here, and it had already happened, Mr Tokić and Špirić, they sent their political orders as they normally do, but I ask that they do not abuse the official session to do so, let them do it in another way. I think this has gone too far. A long time ago, ten minutes ago, it was time for us to come out on a daily 22 and go to work. If my colleagues think it's possible for the public to act that way, then they're honoring the public. I'm sorry, but all of this is like this. As far as I'm concerned, this item of the agenda can't be, as far as I'm concerned, just in my own name, I'm going to be against it, it doesn't mean that it's not going to be, but I'm expressing great, great concern that one important, most important political issue is politicized without any scruples and trying to put this issue on the agenda instead of what it's supposed to be, I agree with Spahić and others to see, think, discuss, discuss with the College and with all the important entities in this country and put this issue on the agenda, and not any kind of conversation that is where I don't say where to move from the colleges of the session and here to distract the public and all of us for two hours, and who knows how much more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1771	Thank you. I'm asking you indeed and distinguished members of the College to make emotions.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1772	Ask for a break, it's not about emotions, let's see what we do?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1773	Please, colleague, I can understand your revolt.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1774	I'm not a gun at all. You go ahead, but I'm dissatisfied as a member of the College as you run a session and don't run it well, so make sure the public knows that.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1775	I would really ask you to let me run the session. If you've calmed down, I'll continue to hold the session. If you're looking for a break, we'll take a break. But I would ask you if there was no reason and it is a first-class political debate issue in which, as I said, a whole series of other questions and questions included. And maybe it should take more points of the agenda to clarify this or not, because in the end, there are obviously no political consent on some issues, but what about the business procedure and the objections to my work I can give here a few explanations as chair of all MPs. This item of the agenda, Mr Špirić, failed to mention the House of Peoples College of the Parliamentary Assembly. A member of the House of Peoples College of the Parliamentary Assembly may, as any envoy, propose a business item on the agenda on the issue. I do not consider it good that at the session itself the members of the College differ in the form of political issues, but if they differ it is perfectly normal and it can only be resolved by procedure. As for my announcement for the word follow closely, I only answered once for the word and that after an hour and forty minutes of discussion was held on this agenda point and after the members of the College and most of the envoys discussed it once or more times and I find it completely legitimate and in this context I would not like either of them to have the right to label the discussion. That's not good. It's politically not good. This session will, of course, be completed in accordance with the procedure and no 23 sessions will fail, if we stick to the Rules of Procedure each session will be completed. Your statement, if I can take it as a request for a break, I'm willing to take a break if you do. I'm taking a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1776	I'm looking for a replica before my break. He can't take a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1777	I'll sit down at the House of Peoples. There won't be a sequel. I'm sorry, I don't need to. The representatives of the delegates of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina continue to work on the consultations during this time of the session, because we can work for up to three hours to stop the session, so that we can continue at the next session. I'd try if it's possible to work another hour. I'm looking at facial expressions, I wouldn't really want to make such an important decision at such an important moment. Then I'm making an appointment, considering.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1778	I asked for a replica you didn't give me in the Rules of Procedure and I want to use.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1779	Okay. We continue to work for up to three hours with replicas, with discussion on the agenda and, of course, if we determine the agenda with the follow-up session. So we are at the point of considering Mr Špirić's proposal, whether the resolution should be classified as a special, new item of the agenda, beyond what was defined by the College of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. Mr. Šimić's conceited envoy came forward for the word. Here you go, Mr. Šimić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1780	I, too, requested a replica of Mr. Tokić's insignificant exposure, but there was a difference in the fact that in such an insignificant statement of some things, I also asked the Honorable Mr. Tokic's dear and respected colleagues. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Chairman did not give me his word. To interpret the Rules of Procedure can't without the College, I'm not asking for his explanation why he didn't give me his word, because I won't hold to that clarification too much, because there will certainly be blurry. As far as the replicas are concerned, I want to say one more very ugly thing and say that I will no longer conduct discussions on this high home of that quality and that inadmissible low cultural level. But I must once and for all say that the master is nervous, the chairman of Mr. Tokić only works when he creates anxiety and that psychology is very simple and clear. Then, as a cobajagi, he remains superior to his associates and possibly an opponent of 24 polymists. It reads every high school student and I deeply apologize to your respected colleagues and the public for having to talk about such simple things. So, you know what today was an attempt to stop the qualitative constitutional changes that are at hand, to create another crisis, another atmosphere, and the master of the crisis has succeeded and is eager to interrupt this session, and I have told you about the work of the College and the functioning of this session. Thank you very much. Article 50.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1781	Thank you. As chairman, just an explanation. I am holding the session order and I will honor every decision to give him a word at the moment when conditions are created and I would beg Mr Šimić regardless.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1782	We're an equal colleague here by accident at headquarters.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1783	Okay. I would really ask you to calm down so that I could perform the presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1784	You're gonna give me the pill.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1785	Who's next to the word? Mr. Sušac Niko, Your Honor, here you are.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1786	Mr. President, fellow envoys, honored guests, this session today kind of reminds me of the Christmas day of December 24th, so we're kind of in a similar situation and that's where I felt nervous. I use the opportunity to begin by congratulating the envoys of the Muslim religion tomorrow's festival of Bajram. Maybe we should change the situation completely. A lot of words have been said here, and maybe I should have given up, but I have some simple things to do, no matter how clear they are. I would agree with my colleague Špirić if what he said wasn't politics, I agree with that, it's worse, harder than I wouldn't talk about here. Namely, some parties from Bosnia and Herzegovina's party activity with a Croatian omen in their work programme went to Zagreb. Does this resolution mean that these parties are banned from coming out of BiH and that they are being fenced in style here, which was, that they have fenced some in the past, or that the parties can work normally. Unfortunately or fortunately, it will not be, because the parties will continue to go freely in free Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am a Croat from the SDP and neither I nor my fellow Croats went to Zagreb. They thought there was no need, they didn't leave. That doesn't mean I have any objection to these people who've been up there. Perhaps it would be best to prescribe for the Croats what they should do and 25 what they are allowed to do. Maybe that too. I think that BiH, apart from the territory, is also human and I think that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, these people need and peoples need to live equally. I'm more involved, actually, in favour of this component of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I have to be here, I have to say, I know that my time is limited, the clubs of the Croats of this home and the House of the Federation Parliament have made amendments to the Federation Constitution. It was clear that there would be a blockade of constitutional changes if the House of Peoples was abolished. And not only are we wrestling, but the SDP is clearly on the stand that the homes of the people should be in both the Federation and the Republika Srpska. The parties that were in Zagreb, the main committee said on 13 October 2001, also said in our documents, are other parties that do not have Croatian omens from Bosnia and Herzegovina, meaning the House of Peoples in the Federation and the same solution in Republika Srpska. Apparently, last night it seemed to me to be approaching those views and it seems that today some kind of mess needs to be made to prevent further compliance between the Federation and Republika Srpska parties. So to stop that further deal. Of course, I understand what's been going on here today. It's first and foremost announced in the press, some of the views of the individuals who are here today who are shown here today. Of course I don't agree with Tomce's statements that are quoted here, but mentioning Tomac, is it also a interference in other countries? He's the vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Should we make a resolution here to strongly resent people who receive party leaders from other countries of their people? There's no connection to what your people have to do, but there you go, if that's what a resolution should do. I don't think it's this party's business that went to Zagreb, it's a simple deal. A clear policy there is no Tudjman's policy here in BiH, except perhaps in part down in my area, or elements of the remains, but Tudjman's policy here does not have it the position of the Croatian government is clear and I think this kind of alert to raise for it, it is not that, but it is some other matter. In the end, I think, I hope that putting this resolution on the agenda will be rejected and putting this resolution in my court is not the meaning of this resolution but of some other things that I said something about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1787	I thank Mr. Sušac. Who's next to the word?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1788	The word has its chairman, Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1789	Of course, the vote will declare the commitment of every envoy here and I don't really see why this statement has long been extended when everyone will say what they think about putting this point on the agenda. As chairman, I reject any remarks that today's debate on the departure of political parties to Zagreb has been held here. A debate has been held on the proposal of an envoy to put one item of the agenda on the agenda. Please, there has been no debate here on the individual 26 departures of anyone in any country. Of course, I refuse any connotations that speak of that I've agreed on this resolution with both Mr Špirić and anyone else. I, when I agree with someone on something I sign and I make it clear, and my entire political engagement is based on it, and my position on this resolution was only said through that compromise proposal that this should be addressed to the Commission because, as chairman, I have received a strong refusal to put this item on Mr. Šimić's agenda, namely Mr. Špirić's resolute refusal to put it as a part of the agenda today, i.e. that he withdraws as a promoter. He just tried to do it as an envoy by making a proposal that made sense to me today and now makes sense. I wish these further tensions and anxiety didn't go away, because of course we are representatives of different political parties here, we look differently, but we should behave in accordance with the Code of Procedure. Thank you and I would really like to use this time we have very briefly to make this home work more successful. Thank you. Mr. Šimić replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1790	He left out, of course, the chairman commenting on article 50, but I didn't ask for it. He left out a very important thing to say, which is why there was this debate on one item on the agenda, which is not why he saw two members of the College having completely conflicting views, it's very logical for both the Rules of Procedure and every political and every human, not to tell the child's logic to call on the College, it's his obligation and that we try to bring it together without letting the House go two or three hours at mercy and mercy. I invite you to conclude whether it's a tendency or not?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1791	In line with article 53, I must quote Šimić because of his esteemed colleague – the chairman maintains order during the session. All present are required to comply with his orders. The Chair may warn a delegate who, through his or her conduct or speech during the session, violates the order or provisions of this Rules of Procedure. The chairman may order any presence even to leave the room if it violates the order. I thought so, and now I think the atmosphere was like that and you were so upset, Mr. Šimić, that your replica at that point would resemble the order of this high house.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1792	You're a pharmacist, so give the pill to your brother.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1793	Yeah. And now, please, while you sit there, refrain from commenting and abide by the Rules of Procedure. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1794	I'm asking you out for a pay phone when you have to tell me as a representative of this house.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1795	Let's get on with the work. So, unless there's more debate, I suggest we approach the plea. We have three suggestions. One proposal is to put this agenda item on the agenda, of course after the defined and harmonised agenda of the House of Peoples. The second proposal is to refuse, in fact, the vote will declare it, and this was decidently declared by the Croatian Envoys' Club. And the third proposal in order is that the motion for this resolution should be addressed to the Commission and that all aspects of this problem should be considered on the committee. I don't understand. With its conclusion, the House of Nations may refer to the Rules of Procedure there, refer to the committee responsible for the debate. It does not have to be on the agenda, but the conclusion in the debate can be defined. So please approach the plea. The debate is over. Who's to put this agenda item on the agenda? I'm asking the service to count the votes. - 5 Who is against this proposal? - 6 Who's abstentioned? – 5 So this point did not get the necessary majority to put on the agenda. Who is to refer this motion to the committee in accordance with this resolution. I can give. Article 114. – any delegate may submit a motion for a resolution. The resolution is under consideration at the session unless the House decides that a motion for a resolution should be considered by the Commission. Who is it, please? My legitimate proposal is to conclude that this resolution is addressed to the committee responsible. Who's up for that proposal? Who's against it? - 4 So the proposal doesn't mean 28 Who's abstentioned? She beat restraint. I find no proposal related to this proposal, Mr Špirić, has received the necessary majority. Let's move on to the agenda. Mr Ilic's proposal for a download, the Commission, please excuse Mr Ilić, on behalf of the Commission, concerning the removal of the 15th point (c) of the operational programme. The proposal for an operational plan to fulfil the obligations under the application of Bosnia and Herzegovina for membership in the Council of Europe would only give the following explanation. As chairman of the Commission, I am withdrawing this proposal. There's no voting, but let me explain the explanation. The operational programme is a matter of information drawn up by the Secretary of Parliament and the Secretary of the Delegation, the Secretary of the Presidency on behalf of the Secretary of the Council of Ministers and is therefore a matter of a truly gathering of commitments that stand to be operationally helpful in further discussion, but I agree that at one of the next sessions at the initiative of the Foreign Commission of our home we can put a special point of the agenda – the obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina in an operational sense. Excuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1796	Dear colleagues, the Commission is, by a majority vote, about the conclusion... ie, proposing a postponement of this agenda. I had a different opinion on the Commission, and I wish it had been Mr. Ilić's chairman, but it doesn't matter. So I point out that I'm not so that this point is delayed. I perceive the very great importance of this point, but I have objections to the content of documents that are momentarily and stylishly unsuitable not to say illiterate, which could have been resolved during the debate. So I don't understand why the point is retreating, and I'm just saying that I've been to consider this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1797	Okay. I think it's very clear. So as for the report on the work of the delegation and the opinion of the Parliamentary Assembly, this remains as information in the agenda section C., we respect the Commission's opinion and we ask the Commission to see some more conclusions by the next session, so that, in the context of perhaps the specific agenda of the House of Nations or both, we see that this issue is being reconsidered, which does not disrupt the operational plan. The operational plan has already been taken over by the authorities of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institution to realise. So this list, the term list of those obligations. The next proposal was Mr. Genjac, the esteemed envoy of Genjac. One reference was to the setting of deadlines for the implementation of the business obligation of the College of the House of Peoples to draw up a work plan for the House for 2002. I would like to inform you that the College of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly has established a proposal for a work programme. The consolidated text should be done and it will be delivered and it is not according to the Rules of Procedure of adoption of the House of 29 Peoples. Why it has not been adopted so far is one of the reasons why both the Council of Ministers and the Bureau delivered their proposals for the work programme quite late, so that this coordination took place, but the work programme exists and I ask the service to deliver it to all the envoys in the next few days, and certainly until the next session. As regards information on the measures taken by the College of the House of Peoples in order to adopt the Budget of the BiH institutions within the time limit established by the House's Rules of Procedure, there is indeed no other information but a procedural obligation which we as a college, or I as chairman, have carried out. After receiving the draft budget, we sent them to the Constitutional and Legal Commission to give the constitutional basis and to consider and we from the Constitutional and Legal Committee have not yet received that opinion. He would remind at the same time that there is a special procedure for the budget for the Budget, which provides for the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, even one kind of logic, that the House of Representatives first adopts this budget so as not to bring the budget into line, because it is different to agree on amendments, and it is completely different texts. We will monitor the activity if there is a need for the Envoy Genjac to get further explanations on this matter there is certainly a member of the Constitutional-Legal, or president of the Constitutional-Legal Commission who can give an explanation of why and where this has come to date in the Constitutional-Legal Commission. In line with this, I would not consider it necessary to declare myself on this agenda, but if the envoy insists on the proposal, we will certainly give. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1798	So I got some information, although on the Budget of Information that the College is waiting for a question to deliver, the Constitutional Affairs Commission is a fact and I accept that the College has done what it has done and there is no need to vote on it. That's one question. The second question regarding the Programme of Labour of the House of Peoples, that is, the Plan of Labour of the House of Peoples, if it is said within what time MPs will receive this consolidated text, there is no need to vote on this point, I am withdrawing. Just to say if it's in the next seven, ten or fifteen days.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1799	That's till the next session. At the same time, I would ask you, when it comes to the chairman and when it comes to the College, you can get the information before the session, because we're really ready to talk to all the envoys, the delegates, so you don't have to wait for the session, in so long as most of the envoys, the delegates are here, so we're all sitting here, we're working, so it makes sense that if we want to ask someone not to wait for the House's session. 30 I find that we can then approach the adoption of the agenda procedurally defacto this agenda has already been accepted, but I would like, in any case, to ask the envoys to accept this established agenda. Who's on the agenda like this? Do you mind? Anybody got any abstentions? Unanimity. I find that with 14 votes for the agenda adopted. There's no need to read it. They all have because they haven't even changed the order of the agenda. It's only the 15th point c. is actually left out. First item of the agenda. Ad. 1. Answers to the delegates' questions and delegates' questions I think you've all received a review of all the questions raised by the envoys and the delegates' questions. We can find out here that it's a big emergency of the Council of Ministers. A whole series of questions have not been sent to the envoys, and I am here as chairman I will ask with your support that these questions be answered by the next session, because simply some questions lose meaning if their questions are long prolonged, the answer to their questions. In order not to go out individually, does anyone besides Ibrahim Spahić who has submitted questions and Mr Ilić have any other intention of asking delegate questions? Mr. Genjac, Mr. Džaferović and Mr. Novaković. Please, there is no need for those who have set up to be forwarded because I want to. Here you go. Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1800	Without explaining the following five questions: 1. When will the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina propose a solution to the status of Bosnia and Herzegovina's scientific and artistic and research institutions in line with the request of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency? I've been asking a question for the third time in half a year. In half a year, the Council of Ministers, I hope, is prepared to answer this question concerns exactly 11 institutions and, besides, not to explain it to members of the Bureau in full session for the first time and for the only time I have provided the issue to the Council of Ministers. Secondly, I would like to inform the Assembly, or the House, that I referred to Mr. Tokić yesterday a resolution on the settlement of the status of these institutions, and if the Council of Ministers does not answer this question, then I will refer to the Rules of Procedure 31 of the impelation relating to the Council of Ministers. You know what it says in the Rules of Procedure, how it is then resolved. So I suggest that the Council of Ministers answer this question, to make an effort because this is an important issue for the existence of these institutions and the identity that you see we are all forever in favour of, I mean scientific, cultural, since someone has asked a question with my discussion. 2. When will the Standing Military Committee submit information to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament and this House on its work and action in the context of the very clear definitions of constitutional, roles of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Permanent Military Committee? We've already asked that question once. I would like to repeat it explicitly and ask that, in accordance with the interests of this House of Information, the Permanent Military Committee come to be considered as information by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 3. When will the Council of Ministers deliver the promised measures of economic policy in the sixth month of 2001 following the presentation of Ms Azra Hadžiahmetović to the Minister for Foreign Trade and to the strategy for economic development and social development, which was discussed in the context of our 2000 initiative, that is, in 1999? Since it has been two years for us to reach an entrepreneurial society in papers, I hope there is no need to spend two years formulating economic policy measures by the Council of Ministers and Ministers. That's the third question. 4. When will we get the information that we have discussed on several occasions in different contexts about reforming education in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the sensitivity of such a network of education in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the context of youth employment policies in this country? 5. Why would this ask the College to respond at the next session, because it is dark, fits in those fifteen days after the dynamics of the work of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, whose key responsibility is to protect the national interests of Bosniaks, Serbs and Croats, so that all citizens, based on their national determination, have never received formally clear in the procedure of any information on constitutional changes in the constitutions of the Republic of Serbia and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina? I hope that, in the context of this, we will be able to concentrate on the fundamental debate on these issues in a nice way. And this is what's written, and I don't want to spread the list, I think this is enough. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1801	Okay. He would remind you all of the business provisions regarding the question in which it is clearly indicated who can be asked questions so as not to ask each other a question. I think that interpretation of the College of the House of Peoples is being given. 32 Next came Ilić, then Genjac, then Mr. Džaferović. Here you go. I don't think it matters the order.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1802	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, I received an answer to the first delegate question I asked in 14.6.2001, and asked only - what does the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications do to coordinate the activities of the entity health ministries to address the health care of returnees? The answer I got wasn't adequate.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1803	Mr. Ilić, can we, I would ask those who would like to comment on their questions to indicate to the secretary that for the next session we would provide the presence of the one to whom the comment relates.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1804	I don't mind except, I didn't want to explain, I just wanted to say that this answer isn't what I was looking for. The answer I also set to the Council of Ministers on 29.11. concerns whether the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the OHR is aware that the law on the termination of the law on the use of the abandoned property by the OHR, which equalises housing law with the property rights of the sole owner of the dwellings in the social property of the company and the institutions that bought and built these apartments for their workers. And what they intend to do to protect this right and whether they are aware that this provision has been used for malfeasance and obtaining the opposite benefit. And this response from the Council of Ministers is not adequate, nor is it concrete at all, so I ask that for the next session, here I will deliver it to the secretary to provide a concrete answer. For today's session, I'm asking two questions. First question in accordance with Articles 118 and 122. I am asking the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples to the Secretary of the Parliamentary Assembly the following delegate question: - How many apartments were owned by the Socialist Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina Assembly? - Who's the beneficiary of these apartments today? - Is the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH a legal follower of the SRBiH Assembly and, if so, has it taken steps to bring the apartments back to property? 33 Reason: It is known that the Assembly of the former SRBiH is owned by a number of apartments and other assets. In a situation where there are objective difficulties in providing officials, MPs and delegates professionally engaged in the Parliamentary Assembly, and employees of the Professional Service with official residences, the property of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly needs to be placed under its control. The general public in BiH will likely be interested in the answer to this question. I'm looking for an answer in writing. And another question in accordance with Article 118. Do I ask the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples to the Council of Ministers the following delegate question? - Is it known to the Council of Ministers that the Federal Republic of Germany in the name of the health insurance family of BiH workers who paid 5 million marks in the country for the period 92-95 years of Bosnia and Herzegovina? If so, what institution is this money paid for? According to our information, the money arrived in Sarajevo at the current Cantonal Health Insurance Office. Reason: During the negotiations between the Federal Republic of Germany, the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska on the regulation of mutual obligations for the period prior to the entry into force of the Health and Social Insurance Agreement concluded in 2000, the German side informed us that it had paid the Bosnian side 5 million marks for a period of 92-95 years. As the amount relates to all members of the BiH family of workers temporarily employed in the SR Germany, these drastically damaged the health insurance funds of Republika Srpska and the Cantonal Institute of Health Insurance with the Croatian majority because 58% of temporary workers in Germany are from these cantons, according to Mr. Pere Milanović, director of the Cantonal Institute in Mostar. And here I'm looking for an answer in writing. I delivered the Chairman to you on time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1805	Thank you. For the word "Genjac" and "please" all of you, I remind you that we should submit written questions before you ask whether orally or in writing, as those who want an oral response could provide the promoter, i.e. the representative of the institution for which the answer is sought. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1806	Question for the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina: 34 - What have been the results of the Council of Ministers in the announced radical reform of the tax system in order to regulate the single base of the tax system in Bosnia and Herzegovina? - What has the Council of Ministers done to create conditions for the introduction of VAT and has the Council of Ministers sought and discussed the effects of existing tax systems on entities and cantons, or what the Council of Ministers is doing to stop the functioning of the tax system in certain areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina with very harmful and dangerous economic, social, political consequences for the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina? I'd like a written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1807	Thank you. The next word came from Mr. Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1808	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, my question is very briefly addressed to the Council of Ministers and says: - Is what the Council of Ministers is doing on the protection measures of domestic production? If he's doing what, and he's not doing why? I think every explanation of this question is too high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1809	Thank you. I would ask you only procedurally to deliver it in writing. Is there anyone else who can ask a question? Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1810	My fellow delegates, I was asked the question on the 25th of April 2001 that I had not received an answer. The table I've got says I got an answer to the question I asked, and the answer to the question says I didn't get it, because the Federal Ministry didn't give the data. That's why I came out to say, so the question remains, so the delegate question remains, and I expect an answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1811	Thank you. I'm asking the secretary of the department to fix it and see what was administrative. 35 I am concluding the first item of the agenda. Thank you for your cooperation on a fine tolerance atmosphere without a large presence of the Council of Ministers. We can move to the next item of the agenda, and that's Ad 2. Journal of the 14th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly Does anyone appear on this agenda? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. Who is it to adopt the minutes from the 14th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina? I find that all 13 present delegates have adopted, voted for the minutes of the 14th session. Ad. 3. The appointment of members of the Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to reach an Agreement on the Equal Text (a) Law on State Service, (b) Consumer Protection Act, (c) Law on Copyright, (d) The Law on Defence is clear to you all that it is laws that are adopted in a different text in the House of Representatives and it is necessary to establish a committee for harmonisation. In preparation for this session, the College proposed that under (a) the Law on State Service in BiH institutions propose Momčilo Novaković, Munib Jusufović and Niko Sušac. Are there any objections to this? If not, who's in? Consumer Protection Act BiH – Dragutin Rodić, Jerko Ivanković, Ibrahim Spahić. Who's in? Say from the place of change. Okay. So, the Consumer Protection Act BiH, Novaković, Jerko Ivanković, Ibrahim Spahić. Are you in? What are changes now? Apod c) you will change again. Well, you should have, sir. 36 The Law on Copyright and Rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Ilija Šimić, Šefik Džaferović, and I assume Goran Turjačanin. Well, it's okay. Who's in? Law on defence – Halid Genjac, Ivo Živković and Dragutin Rodić. Who's in? I ask the members of the College to inform the envoys, and otherwise the whole logic is about this being arranged evenly for compliance between all present envoys and delegates in this House. Ad. 4. Declaration on the examination pursuant to Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina Proposers Mr Turjačanin and Mr Tokić. Do any of the promoters want to take a word for it? Mr. Turjačanin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1812	Dear fellow delegates, the Honorable Chairman, honored guests. I will now report under point 4. I will complete my address with point 9. Where, together with my colleague, Tokić, I find myself proposing to discuss a set of laws declared by the High Representative, i.e. paragraphs 4 to 8 except the Law on the Ombudsman. To tell you the truth, Mr Tokić and I, as members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's parliamentary delegation to the Council of Europe and after accepting a recommendation from the Council of Europe for the accession of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Council of Europe, have tried to come out together in a proposal, and in a way that the hand provided by the European Community, or the Council of Europe, has been accepted in a cross-response and that we try to make these laws in some way already defined in the letter of intent to put into an emergency procedure, believing that it may have been done by someone else, not just the two of us, but that the time that stands against us only works in the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina should we take seriously what we have signed and take seriously the wish and purpose of Bosnia and Herzegovina, both its entities, all three of its people and all its citizens, to become full members of all three of its people and all its citizens to become full members of the European community and to become members of the European people. I don't want these speakers, and it especially strengthens me to stand behind this request again and the beginning of today's session of the House of Peoples that I don't like a bit, and I don't want to be behind this pay phone, and I don't want to be, and I don't want to be, or expect to be, with this demand that I'm going to profit from anything, not marketingly or to be attractive to this country, but I'm simply initiating this request, in fact, with a desire for this country to be acceptable to us. So not to order any political points, but simply to put what we have in some way committed ourselves to function in its implementation. That's it. Thank you. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1813	Proposers go first, and another promoter gets in touch.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1814	The speaker, Mr. Tokić, answered for the floor on behalf of the promoter, and let Mr. Rodić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1815	I would ask you to give another aspect of the adoption of this law and the following laws that we have stated. The obligation that these laws will be adopted in the same text was signed by the presidents of the balances of entities and the most responsible leaders of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and the obligation to adopt this set of laws is the first defined obligation to post entry in and it lasts six months. There is no possibility that these legal projects and in what other way are being considered except for Article 100, because the laws that are part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's legal system, which is clearly being interpreted by the High Representative, and one of the motivations of us as a proposing, were that these laws and this legislative area that already works in Bosnia and Herzegovina would return to the authority of this House and allow that if someone wants to amend this law or the provisions of this law could appear in the procedure, because I repeat this law is irreplaceable until it is adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in this form. This is a sort of explanation for this, the reasons why this goes according to Article 100, with the support of the definition that Špirić said here that we, as the Parliamentary Assembly, need to affirm as the House of Peoples that this is the place of decision, and in order to do so, we must return all the laws to Parliament's authority. These laws are valid, and they are not yet in Parliament's power. We return them eventually to today's positive decision of this home. In this context, I would like to invite you to make this clear, because it is a direct commitment, and the euntual remarks that I have heard with full respect for some of these laws in the procedure of amending and supplementing this law in other ways we affirm. This defacto frees us as the home of the people of what we've all talked about so many times here, which is a kind of tutoring. Of course there were other legislators of these laws, I don't think the political climate was on this at the time. We therefore have the agreement, the political consensus to meet these obligations and once again would not want you to understand in any other way, we have proposed this as members of the Permanent Delegation of Bosnia and Herzegovina at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and we expect that members from that House of Representatives will act similarly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1816	I would like to thank President Tokić. Mr Dragutin Rodić answered the word. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1817	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have heard from the legislator why these laws should be adopted by emergency procedure and we have waited too long to adopt them, and here comes the time for us to do so now. I personally think that the Council of Europe is not experimenting with Bosnia and Herzegovina, but the Council of Europe has its own rules, has its own standards and, of course, if we want to be part of that European Council, we must join this great association of states and peoples. But all the progress or mistakes that we can possibly make are our mistakes, and if it's just that we adopt certain laws because of some reception or certain fulfillment of the conditions, then we won't go far. However, we must remind this house of the following – on June 14, 2001, at the 5th session of the House of Peoples, we have considered these laws and then we have decided that these laws go into regular procedure. From that moment to this day, here has been eight months neither the Council of Ministers, nor any delegate, nor any body has done anything to put these laws in regular procedure, and I personally think that these laws would have been passed by now. I'm not going to say if those laws would change me, if they were to supplement me, but I also want to say and point out one fact, and she's that we've passed a lot of laws in this house. However, the fact is that we have the easiest and best adopted those laws that have been in the regular procedure. We have also come to some shifts and certain understandings and to some parliamentary procedure that is necessary. So what do we have now? We have a proposal for two delegates and I always stand in a position to delegates, our colleagues can propose. However, I read Article 100 or see that there are elements of urgency. These laws are part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's legal order. Whether we adopt them or not, they are. Furthermore, in order for something to go according to article 100, this problem must be clear, fragmented, understandable. I don't believe these laws are so simple that they can be adopted that way. And third, what it means to adopt these now, this set of laws when they can be adopted in a post-op period of six months and if they go into a regular procedure, they can be adopted in 60 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1818	Just business, I've been very clear. These laws cannot go into regular procedures, because it is not possible to give amendments under the clear instructions of the High Representative, interpretation of this law. Let's be very clear here. Please, Mr. Rodić, I beg you, let's not say something now, that we're asking for it to go into procedure so that we can explain in every place whether you put it on the agenda and you can't talk about it. It's another kind of thing not to say. There is an interpretation of the High Representative and there is a very clear urgency. One of these laws is the remaining commitment to the map of the road that we have determined to meet by April of the month. So there's an emergency. Whether there is a political will, it will, of course, be seen by a vote. Who else answers for a word regarding procedure? Here you go, Mr. Špirić. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1819	Ladies and gentlemen, so we're talking about the procedure of not talking about the law. It's very important to understand. So now we're talking about procedure. I remind you that in the last session, I deliberately pleaded to the right delegate, Mr. Ivo Divković, to offer the law on Article 100. So we said, and even today's proposings, colleagues whose real intention I really appreciate are that it would not be good for us to offer each other laws take or leave. So we're each other. I also understand this transmission by the High Representative, the delegates, the House of Peoples, or the Vio Representative, the OHR Office, the Council of Ministers and the House of Peoples. So that's what I get. And I'm asking you nicely, so today we're talking about pleading procedure, not the law. When we make a deal and this is the point of the agenda, I'll tell you what I think about the law. So I'm going to make it clear what I think about the law, but I'm not because I want to stay consistent, so last time as I wasn't, that's why Ivo Divković offers the law to take or leave it to me as a delegate, I'm not about to be offered by a Goran Turjačanin, or someone else or a third. So I'm not into that kind of procedure, I'm not. And please, when it's law, I'll make my point about the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1820	I'll say it again. And you can read that, Mr. Špirić and everyone else in the official messenger. There is no other procedure for this law than to be adopted in an unchanged form. We can do that if we have to deliver it to everyone and that's a definite attitude. Therefore, do not just use words about political will, and therefore there is no parallel with other laws. These are the laws that are the laws that form part of the constitutional justice system. Spahić answered the word and Mr Turjačanin answered the word. I didn't realize it was a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1821	While I am a delegate and in this term I am working within the House of Peoples I will always prefer to support legislative initiatives, i.e. initiatives for the adoption of resolved laws that come from the order of delegates, depends on which.. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly is working, that's one story. And the other story, I don't think we should be putting into the same basket of legislation that was a conflict law that none of the conditions to say in the admission of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Council of Europe with certain laws that are time-limited and in our intention lies the intention of Bosnia and Herzegovina to show something called goodwill. Good will isn't just about showing up until April of the month. Good will can be shown in February of the month, and if we work like this, I'm afraid we'll go a long way and be further away from the Council of Europe. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1822	Thank you. Here you go. Mr. Novaković, go ahead. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1823	Here colleagues are all the time mentioned the conditions for admission, the conditions of these adoptions of these admission laws to the Council of Europe. It is clear there in the letter that these laws will be on the agenda within six months of BiH's admission to the Council of Europe. It is said there, therefore, from the reception and not the condition for the reception of gentlemen and this story here as one is responsible for BiH because they have proposed this and the others are not responsible, please, gentlemen, it does not stand. We're in June of the month it seems to me June 14th or 24th told me what we think look at now. Niko said they couldn't do it like we said. At that time, Mr. Chairman, who was in the position of the vice-president, said he couldn't do it, gentlemen, by any procedure, but by this alone. We finished that story back then. Of course, it ended by continuing it again without any attempt to do anything about it. So it's not true that this is a condition for reception, so I went out, but these are the conditions when BiH is admitted to the Council of Europe, which should be met within six months, and that is not questionable for me or for those who think like me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1824	Mr. Tokić has a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1825	Please, we're on a very clear set now. I think Dom knows what he's deciding now. Whether today they will adopt these laws, which are not a condition for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe, I think that no one has said it, but said that these are the ready conditions that will do so today and open the space to take place from now on for the next six months or I don't even know for a year this law is in the jurisdiction of this home or will wait six months and then I don't know for a letter that it will send, neither do I know which international representative it is. Between these two policies, I stand for this policy. I think it was a destructive policy that led to it. We know we have to do something. That we're gonna do something. To enter European flows, to be an integral part of European integration, to take over European standards, but give it all the strength to stop what happens later. You're right, Mr. Novaković, this is a really question. We can do this in six months from the aspect of our obligations in the Council of Europe, and that law will act, until then you will not be able to make any amendments, you will not be able to submit proposals here, and in six months we will have to again, because it says, it is not the chairman's position, nor the vice-president's position, as it says in the Official Messenger, and this law can only be adopted by this procedure as well as by these next ones. I think Dom is just deciding between these two variants and thank you for pointing that out between these variants. Are we going to wait for the last moment or are we going to do with or open the space to Mr. Novaković and Rodić tomorrow override the changes and additions to this law if you want to. I give my word to Ambassador Spahić. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1827	Thank you very much because constantly when someone says a replica, I remember one time when a lot of replicas were used and everything was killed through these replicas. The essence of things is not in the politics of chickens and eggs because it's quite clear that nobody puts it as a problem, simple, the procedure is inexorable, the darkness is everything, and that by regular procedure in ten months anyone has done anything and said going into the ordinary procedure is the same procedure. So everything goes back to the same place, the birthplace of the chicken and the egg. You tell me who he is before and who he is later and in the context of this discussion. A much more important part of the debate, whether it is a post-admission or before the entrance exam, is a debate concerning the responsibility of this parliament to meet its obligations from the road map. This means, in practice, that, not only by political will but by pragmatically taking commitments from the precise conditions set out so that, after BiH's accession to the Council of Europe, it will join itself after an accelerated procedure for the adoption of laws and various other conventions, obligations, etc. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on technical assistance and other expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Employment’ policy area of the ‘Employment’ policy area of the ‘Employment’ policy area of the ‘Employment’ policy area of the ‘Employment’ policy area of the ‘Employment’ policy area of the ‘Employment’ policy area. We can make two steps forward and one step back from this old consciousness that we have lived in, and we can do something much simpler, respecting the procedure that we are aware of, we should all practically do things that do not need to be burdened further, end up in the most efficient way, not introducing stories about what is acceptable to us, etc., because the essence of our interests is based on our application for the second stage of European integration called joining the European Union. In exactly seven days, or eight days today, after twelve, so in seven days the 1st of March in Europe begins a debate on the future of Europe, at the European convention chaired by Žiskadeften. When you see what the document says in preparation after the Presidency of Belgium, which unfortunately did not express us leaving as a country and today is a farewell reception.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1828	Please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1829	He leaves us as a country as a bilateral partner and will not have his ambassador here, as we have never realistically had in Belgium in Brussels in recent years, and we do not understand what it means to be in bilateral relations with a country that is the centre of the European institutions that we are seeking is a stupid policy, a stupid policy, an idiotic approach to international relations in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1830	I'm gonna have to take your word for it, because you're not sticking to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1831	I would like to say that it would be foolish to discuss chickens and eggs today rather than to support Mr. Turjačanin and Mr. Tokić in this case and hopefully 42 other delegates, who will push through the process d, the laws that we can adopt under a certain procedure that is indiscreetly undermining and which should allow us to simply relax in our relations in BiH, we concentrate on the responsibility of the institutions in which we swear. Now, this is one of the responsibilities of the times when we can really decide that on the 11th of November 2002, six months after the end of the virtual admission of BiH which has not yet been completed we will now put it on the agenda, because as it is now, this is the moment. The procedure will be fully identical to the procedure called February 21st in November 2002. Therefore, I strongly recommend to all the colleagues who are here not to cut this with a normal vote, but we should take a break and make a serious decision to subscribe these six laws to Article 100, as proposed by two delegates of our colleague. It's the most intelligent thing we can do, because if we continue the debate, I'm afraid we'll get into a trap of chickens and eggs. And the fact that I used some harsh terms, let those terms, of course, say they're expressionistic so that no one would have a replica of them. So, I ask you to treat them as expressionistic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1832	Thank you. I would, however, ask for a break of 15 minutes and I call on the members of the College and the chairman of the clubs to approach the table here. No more than 15 minutes since we agreed to work until half four. ...guests, representatives of the Croatian people, delegates of the Serbian people, envoys and delegates of the Bosniak people get the conditions that we can, Mr Rodić said. [[PAUZA]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1833	I think when I said I was clear enough. I didn't want to insult anyone, I wanted to make certain points. But then we heard some clarifications, and I wouldn't repeat what kind of cultural level it is and bring it into debate as one they're aware of, the others are unaware and they don't see where this is going. I now, responsibly from this place, claim that we all know each other and we don't need to convince each other what the conditions are and what obligations we need to meet to join a particular association, and I think that's the case. But it seems to me that we always get each other wrong. When I was talking, I was talking about procedure, and I wasn't talking about the material content of those laws. What I'm saying in principle and now you decide what you want, if we had these laws at the 5th session in June and when all of what we're saying today was on the agenda, I don't see any reason why we have to break what we've already decided. As far as the law is concerned, I have no objection to those laws in the content itself, but I repeat again when it comes to procedures I cannot agree to. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1834	Thank you. I will repeat, interpreting the Rules of Procedure there is no possibility that under the procedure of article 100 and one law goes to the commission. Therefore, these laws cannot go differently in procedure than this. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1835	Mr. Chairman, it is clear to us that if the procedure is adopted then the law cannot go to the commission, but we are still discussing the procedure here, not the commission and not the content of the law. I went out to say the position of the Serbian delegates' club. Namely, the Serbian delegates' club first stands in the position of entering the Council of Europe entails certain conditions that should be met afterwards and that it is because of these conditions and that these conditions do not slow down. The club slows down the principle that they're trying to do, right here today, not just these six, but some other laws to adopt, and with that job to say it that way, we end up. That is why the Club of delegates of the Serbian people will not vote for this procedure and if we have in principle no objection to the adoption of these laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1836	Thank you. I don't want to argue with the club's views, but I'm going to tell the media and the club in a very clear way there's no other procedure for the adoption of the law, and we're going to be responsible and in writing to the club except for this procedure, and I'm afraid in six months we're going to be in a situation that, or in a few months and I don't know when to adopt this law or not to adopt it according to this procedure. Please, if no one answered the word. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1837	Dear colleagues, there is much to manifest about these 5-6 points today. There is no business obstacle that any law of any initiative is resolved in accordance with the said article and there is no procedural obstacle to resolving it today, indeed, does not exist. There is no procedural obstacle to resolving it in another way. However, we have an initiative here to address this in accordance with a specific member of the Rules of Procedure. It's about the laws that live. It is about laws on the basis of which BiH institutions are created and it is about laws that are facts. I don't consider some great result of this home if we adopt those laws. It's just our obligation. But on that point, I'm afraid today and already today on the test is our willingness to respect our commitments. In fact, I'd like you to take a look at the document adopted by the Council of Evorpa regarding our obligations. It stands there, therefore, that the Parliamentary Assembly is bound to, within six months of its entry, if it has not already been passed, adopt laws that have been declared on a provisional basis by the High Representative. The deadline of April 2002. So this is in a document that circulated at the Parliamentary Assembly and 44 of the Council of Europe committees, the deadline of April 2002. I'm afraid today, by refusing to take this job ahead of us, we're going to take a precedent, not doing what we've committed to in Strasbourg. We have had many opportunities in public to see that our delegation was unique in the performance, that it was a performance that was unique as never before, and in the delegation I remind all representatives of the parties from the RS and the Federation and representatives of the SDS and representatives of both coalitions and alliances etc. This delegation, which was there in its unique performance, was extremely aware of what it meant to accept obligations and was deeply aware, or not, of what it meant to be uniquely present and to accept the obligations that were accepted there. Today it is on the test, whether this unity was content, whether this unity was manifest and today it is on the test whether we will be responsible for the Council of Europe in the accompanying period as we have announced it. I voted for these laws on all occasions when they were on the agenda until now. There was a significant number of delegates who adopted these laws and voted for them whenever they were on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1838	Please don't share any materials during the session. I'm asking the secretary to take care of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1839	A lot of good is said in this period in BiH, which is behind us in a shorter and longer period. Many things BiH friends have said we must respond to those fine sentences that have been said about us. I remind you that Mr Petrič, at one of the latest talks in June, stated in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe that, after the November elections, a multinational government has been established whose commitment is to fight for economic prosperity and strengthen BiH and that this is the first government in BiH to respect BiH's existence as a state. It has given great importance to establish alliances for changes in the Federation whose commitment has been joined by advanced RS parties. This is in the document that we were to consider today in the report of the Council of Evorpa delegation. Of course, as a man with no grades here, I can disagree or disagree with Mr. Petrić's exposure. There's a lot of things here that I think are questionable, the classification of parties, etc. However, the assessment that advanced RS parties have joined the project, which puts the BiH state first, shows today, has its own text on these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1840	I see a lot of replicas. Is it a discussion or a replica, Mr. Ilić? Here you go, Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1841	I just want to tell Mr. Genjac, that is, to replicate that this is here today and in this place should be an indication of how ready and how good it is for BiH. I have here an assessment of the BiH Ministry of Eurypical Integration on the state of 45 meeting EU guidelines where this ministry has not laid down these six laws as a condition. Gentlemen are not tested at this point in the agenda who is for BiH and who is not for BiH. It was also tested on the proposed resolution who is in favour and who is not. We sitting here from the Serbian delegates' club are for BiH. We are also for these laws, gentlemen. We made that clear, but not in procedure, so it's a principled matter of procedure and don't please correct what we said here. There's no need. You can take politics to another place that's certainly a lot different than this.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1842	The speaker, Mr. Tokić, picked up the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1843	Just one short replica. First, what a negative context for this debate of the delegation, the BiH Parliamentary Delegation, at the Council of Europe, is untasteful, simply because the delegation showed its unity through the proposal of these legal projects. So that unity exists and it's good and I don't know why someone would be periodically a little bit, a little bit upset about it. On the contrary, you should help this unity. Secondly, when it comes to Mr. Petrić's quotes regarding the Alijansa. Of course, no law should be imposed by the Office of the High Representative in our term of office. Or in a mandate where the parliamentary majority have parties to the Alliance for Change, because I can't remember the quote you used, Mr Genjac. What we are doing now, trying to do, or what we did six to seven months ago, is correcting the immaturity of previous parliaments that refused to adopt laws related to it and we have succeeded at 11 laws, we are left with 6-7 that are facts. We can climb all you want, Mr. Novaković. We can, we don't have much time for a session, but we can do it ten times, but there is no Mr. Novakovic other procedure than this one and she won't be in the House of Peoples because she doesn't exist. It's published in the official messenger. I don't know which more arguments can go on than to show that this law can't be passed differently. Only, I guess there's supposed to be a force here that comes out more times and repeats its claim so who's going to be the last line left here. There is no other procedure, and if ever these laws are passed, they will be adopted in the procedure that we passed last laws of 11 laws or these seven laws that we propose. It is incorrect for Mr Novaković that these laws are not a condition for the road map of accession to the European Union. I don't know what papers you have, but Mr. Mikerević you can, there will also be an interruption you can consult the condition of one of the essential conditions for meeting the road map to come into a situation to discuss accession and stabilisation is adoption in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Law on the Ombudsmans and it is decadently written. It was just so much my discussion. I ask you, indeed, that when you go out, especially when you use big words in the name of the people that at least you use basic facts. We can continue this debate at 46 meetings eventually, but it can't behave like that. It can't behave like that, that no matter what title he has, he denies elementary, constitutional, legal and other procedures. The guilty quote came from Mr. Genjac. Here you go. We have a discussion of Mr. Ilić, the problem is that replicas have an advantage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1844	A few coins of misunderstanding were exhibited here. At no point do I want to bring our delegation to the Council of Europe in a negative context for this law. On the contrary. I really believe that the key moment and the essential moment of our delegation's unique appearance was to accept the obligations that should be accepted and I did not say that the text is being passed to BiH today. It takes a test of our willingness to respect the obligations we have taken. We can show it to a large extent today. Mr. Tokić, I would really like to ask you to leave the qualifications from the domain of psychology and psychiatry, anxiety, frustrations that you so mercilessly share with your colleagues for someone else. Use the arguments of the Rules of Procedure, arguments of fact from the agenda, etc. I'm really uncomfortable with what you did with Mr. Šimić today. I'm uncomfortable as a member of this home, high home, and don't use classics from that domain, please. Use facts.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1845	Thank you. I use the Rules of Procedure and the facts and arguments to conduct the session, and we don't know what you're saying, Mr. Genjac, although I appreciate you solidarity with my second deputy in the College. The word was answered by Mr. Ilić and then Mr. Špirić. But, please, we have a clear situation here that...
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1846	Dear colleagues, I will not speak on behalf of the people or in the name of the parties, I want to say something like a man. We didn't bring this Rules of Procedure. I don't know what official messenger someone can rewrite the Rules of Procedure. If last time we figured something out and had time to do it, and we don't mind here, and that's what Mr. Genjac said to do, so I feel very, very bad, when I hear the high representative say and it's a done deal. If the High Representative doesn't respect me as a man, a free citizen of this country and doesn't allow me to have my own free opinion, then I don't respect the High Representative either. Please, BiH will never stand on the green branch unless we release ourselves from the subjective mentality. Well, I guess we're grown-up and mature enough to be able to make our own decisions here, not to have to look for permanent protection or arbitration of someone outside. We are for these laws, but we are for the procedure. I beg you, here's my personal attitude. I've been shot like a man, because there's always something I'm asked to do here, not make decisions. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1847	Thank you. It's all business. You may be struck by an esteemed delegate as much as you want, but you need to know the basic facts. If the Rules of Procedure of this House and the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives were adopted in their homes and the matter was published in the Official Messenger and I would ask you to only deal with the facts. And as for guessing, heated discussions, subjective mentality, and what we've been saying about the procedure, it's all published in the Official Messenger, and it's going to apply. It must be respected as these laws do. To be perfectly clear, I'd like to ask you for a minimal knowledge of the matter we're talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1848	I think wise people who care about laws being passed after this debate, and since we said that we would work until three, possibly by half-four, it would be wise to take a break 15 minutes before we approach the plea, unless there's a mood to get something to confirm this home. I think it would be very wise not to plead because there will be a continuation of the session, and to use that time to discuss each other in seeking a solution for these laws to be passed. So, with the intention of being adopted. It would be good if we took a break 15 minutes earlier, instead of voting, to finish the vote, to realize that the laws didn't go through, so we're looking again for business maneuvers to come to the agenda in this form or that form. That's my suggestion, then. I'm asking you, since the break will be 10-15 minutes enough just for a statement. So, the end of the session and the sequel, given that the request for a break is due to the holiday that we respect and honor and congratulate all Bošnjak tomorrow's holiday, here I am taking the opportunity and I think it would be good to leave a statement for the sequel.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1849	Can we conclude this debate? It's a procedure debate. Is anyone else answering for word? Is there anyone else to answer for? I'll give you 10 minutes to consult before we make a statement about this. If we don't have a statement on the entity level enough, then there's a break-up usually due to the approval of the House of People's Colleges and also to the obligation of the law. I'd like a 10-minute break, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1850	...we get to the law, because there's going to be an end to the session, so we don't take a chance. You can do that, it's no problem. We can vote right now, because we don't play the essence here to get to the law or to take pictures of each other in front of the public who's against who. That's why I'm absolute, but there's no law, and I care about the law to be. So please, there is no conclusion, but I ask that the session be suspended for the holiday to end now and the plea at the next session. Who's in. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1851	The word came from Mr. Turjačanin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1852	As one of the two promoters, the laws declared by the High Representative are in the 100-point procedure. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Peoples, as the only procedure possible, and to get out of this situation, I believe that the proposal from fellow Špirić is very rational and I support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1853	I'm interrupting the session. I'm scheduled to resume the session for March 1st at 10:00 p.m. Is there a problem with most delegates? Okay. At 10 o'clock on March 1st – March. The seat was interrupted at 1520 hours. 49 Dear delegates - envoys, distinguished media representatives, respected guests, I am opening the 15th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I welcome you all. There are 15 delegates present. Of which 5 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serb people. So the conditions have been established that we are fully deciding on the points of the agenda, which we have already defined. In that context, exactly where we interrupted the work we continue. I'll remind you, we've been interrupted at the agenda point a statement of consideration per article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act of BiH – legislators Sejfudin Tokić and Goran Turjačanin, after the debate has been concluded, and a statement should be joined. In that context, allow me. Who is to be considered under Article 100 of the Law. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is, therefore, about the law on amendments and additions to the BiH Customs Policy Act. Who's in? I find that all 15 delegates – the envoys supported the statement under Article 100 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act. We still have to vote on the law. Who is for the adoption of this law? I am pleased to find that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act has been adopted in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina unanimously with all 15 votes in favour. With the pleasure of passing the law, I'd like to ask you all to turn off your cell phones. We move to the next point, the second point of the session. Ad.2. Declaration on the examination pursuant to Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House, a law on administrative fees and tariffs for administrative fees – legislators Sejfudin Tokić and Goran Turjačanin 50 predlagač submitted a request for consideration of the law on administrative fees and tariffs under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. The debate first is whether the law will be considered and adopted under Article 100. Is anyone answering for a debate or, perhaps, the promoter has some need. I'll remind you that the argument has already been made in the last session. If no one answers for a word. For the purposes of that law, who is to be considered under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly? Who's against it? 11 for – 4 against. I find that the said law has not received the entity's majority, there is no need for it to and that the plea procedure per article 100 is going to be agreed upon. We'll get the alignment in the Rules of Procedure set out in the deadline. A session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly is already scheduled for Monday at 3 p.m. and this point will be the subject of a statement. Moving to point 4. Ad. 4. Declaration on the examination pursuant to Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. I'm sorry, this is Section 3. I'm sorry. Ad.3. Declaration on the examination pursuant to Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Administrative Taxes – legislators Sejfudin Tokić and Goran Turjačanin As well as in previous laws, the applicants submitted a request for the examination of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Administrative Taxes under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. First we'll have a debate, whether or not we should pass the law by this article. Is anyone answering for a word from the promoter no one. From delegates and envoys, no one. They've gained the opportunity to approach the plea. Who is to be considered under Article 100 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina? - 11 Who's against it? – 4 So, with 11 votes to – 4 against, I find that we have this majority but we do not have an entity majority and according to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly and this law is going to be agreed in the College of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. Ad.4. Declaration on the examination pursuant to Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of Law on the establishment of the Institute for Accreditation of Bosnia and Herzegovina – delegates Sejfudin Tokić and Goran Turjačanin have submitted a request for consideration of the law establishing the BiH Accreditation Institute, also, under Article 100. The rules of procedure of our home. We'll have a procedure debate first. Do any of the motions report for a word related to the explanation of the procedure? Niko. Do any of the envoys – the delegates want to take a word for the procedure? Niko. 51 I agree that we can approach a statement concerning the procedure for the adoption of the law establishing the BiH Accreditation Institute – Proposer Tokić and Turjačanin under Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. Who's in favor of the specified procedure? All 15 envoys supported the procedure under Article 100. The terms have come to terms that we're going to a plea of the law. Who is for the adoption of the law in this proposed text? Unanimity passed law. All 15 envoys – the delegate passed the Law establishing the Institute for Accreditation of BiH – Proposer Tokić and Turjačanin and we can go to the next point of the 5th session extension. Ad.5. Declaration on the examination of 100. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House of the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH – Proposers Tokić – Turjačanin Do any of the motions come forward? Niko. The delegates – do they want to take a word for it? I'm closing the debate. Who is it that the law on the BiH Court of Justice is being considered under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly? - 11 Who's against it? – 4 I find that, in relation to the procedure of the BiH Court Law, we have a majority, but we do not have an entity majority, so this law will go to the House of Peoples College of the Parliamentary Assembly. Ad.6. Declaration on the examination pursuant to Article 100. Rules of Procedure on the work of the People's House of Human Rights Law – Proposer Tokić and Turjačanin Does anyone report for the proposal? Niko. From the envoy – delegates? Niko. I'm closing the debate. Who is to be considered under Article 100 of the Law. Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH? - 11 Who's against it? – 4 I find that this law, namely a statement by procedure of adoption of this law, has received the required majority, but is not an entityal majority and this law goes to the College of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. Ad.7. The proposal for a law on the transfer, regulator and operator of the electricity system in BiH – a proposal from the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers, submitted a request for consideration of the laws on transmission and the regulator and the operator of the Bosnia and Herzegovina's electricity system under Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There will be a debate on the procedure first. I find that no one has joined the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly since the motion, which can certainly be a element of the delegation's statement, according to a report on the work of the Council of Ministers, which we will have 21 for the next planned session of 52 of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. However, business does not prevent us from having a debate and saying about the laws, since the Council of Ministers has requested a statement under this article in the envisaged procedure. Mr Ivo Divković came to the word, and then the honourable envoy – the delegate Mr Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1855	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, I will say immediately and will not be able to declare myself that this law goes into the procedure under Rule 100 of this Rules of Procedure, because I have already sent one amendment in case the law clearly does not enter into force under Article 100 of this Act, and that amendment refers to the seat of the Regulatory Agency, where I have proposed that the seat be held in Tuzla, that the seat is, in fact, defined in Tuzla, with the explanation that Tuzla is the energy centre of the Federation of BiH as a whole, in which in 2002 it is planned to produce about 40% of the total electricity of the Federation, that virtually on the Tuzla canton is bottled over 30% of the total energy and system and that the Tuzlan canton has high-power personnel from the field of el. energy, the university, the institutes, means all necessary and when it comes to the regist. The energy is being stored in Tuzla. That's why I won't be able to vote for article 100, which is why I wanted to point out.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1856	Okay, thank you. I would remind you only of the procedure and there is no need for, possibly, amendments that can follow only if the procedure for considering this law proposed by the Council of Ministers is changed. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1857	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed fellow delegates, distinguished guests, I also spoke last time when adopting the agenda to the BiH Parliament, to the soul in accordance with the Rules of Procedure which we have adopted the right to participate in the creation and adoption of important legal projects at BiH level. If more than 50% - 70% or 80% of the laws that are very important for BiH enter the Parliament and demand a statement per article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples or I don't know by which member of the House of Representatives, then it is expensive for delegates to come to Parliament and accept something they have no right to have any objection to. Then it is much cheaper for the delegates to declare by mail the law that the Internet says that they are in advance for everything offered under this procedure, and you know that the Rules of Procedure say that the law under Article 100 can be referred to a high degree of urgency or if it is simply written so that it is understood that there is no need to go in two readings. I ask you, this is the most complex law we have ever had in parliamentary procedure and that, when a man understands something in this area, he reads it ten times, only then sees the Kuntures of something to be called the electric energy system of BiH, and that is why I don't think that the level of democracy in BiH should be destroyed, which is very real, and that is why I am against the frequent use of Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Once sent to us by article 100, the Bureau sent us the Council of Ministers by article 100, third 53 times we get from the Office of the High Representative or the OHR. I wonder why the citizens of BiH are then paying at all two homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or must say that we are unable to pass laws alone of interest for the citizens and for the people of BiH. That's why I'm not ready, not just on this case, but on a number of others who are going to come by article 100 at all to discuss it. That it's a law that has three members, which I can memorize from Banja Luka to Sarajevo, which is simply written that I understand, I will support, but if anyone thinks this is a simple law, whose work it's been working on for two years. If any of the delegates can explain to me what the law says, here's the second I vote yes. What happens until we get the law by procedure 100 delegates and MPs read the law. Why read the 20-page law if I don't have a chance to define the amendment, if I don't have a chance to change it, etc. I think this is a upside-down practice, that this is not good for BiH, and yes, we have even started to get more rarely from the OHR's office laws under Article 100, because people want us to take over ourselves to work together, etc. but unfortunately we started getting from the Council of Ministers and the Bureau of Members 100. There's nothing lately that's not on article 100. Budget, Budget Law, Sucession, here's the energy law. Is there anything in this country that is not a member of 100th, or is there some deal behind that 100th that is not clear to delegates and MPs. I have information that some arrangements are made and that's good, but whoever deals must have a name and a signature, what happens after we establish or the public in BiH finds that the law is not good, then all those who participated in the negotiation process say so we didn't, that law was passed by the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So then the people ask us, among other things, what are our salaries, etc. to plead by article 100 as ducks. It is, in the world there is no such practice. Whether we are in BiH at all able to make that radical step. The question arises whether or not we are. Here, that's why I won't be to discuss it by article 100. We agreed not to talk about the essence of the law, when it comes to the agenda, I'm going to say what I think about the essence of the legal solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1858	Is anyone else answering for a hearing about this law?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1859	The speaker, Mr. Tokić, appears for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1860	Dear envoys and delegates of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, I highly appreciate the motivation and Mr Ivo Divković, concerning the need for decentralisation of institutions and agencies stemming from the basic Dayton Constitution of established BiH institutions and outside Sarajevo, and in this context this house has also brought similar delicacies, as well as the need to open space for delegates and envoys of the House of Parliament to consider and influence legal projects, which is certainly disabled by the procedure of Article 100. 54 However, I would like, in the context and before the statement, without questioning legitimacy and one and another commitment, however, for the sake of the need for this very important segment to be heard in the absence, in an unwarranted lack of representatives of the Council of Ministers, that it is a legislative project that is one of the key conditions for BiH's entry into European integration processes and, more importantly, it is in fact one of the key projects, which are carrying out one fundamental reform in a positive sense of the power system in BiH and which can also enable the mobilisation of the World Bank's funds under the project of power three. Since this law has long, long been in the process and many times the deadlines have been broken, I would like the envoys – delegates, to have this also in mind when declaring the procedure for adopting this very important legislative project. Thank you. If you don't mind, Mr. Genjac, go ahead. I welcome the first representative of the Council of Ministers to arrive.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1861	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is unacceptable for me to, in this way, refer within the ruling group to a very important law. It is indeed a law that is extremely important and with which a number of arrangements are very important and necessary Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think the Council of Ministers and the leadership of this Parliament and the delegates, particularly from parties made up of the Council of Ministers and the leadership of Parliament, had to unify the position that this debate would have a productive outcome. Otherwise, I have the impression that the pre-election campaign began on a very speculative and problematic ground. I believe that this law should be considered as proposing that there are significant reasons to consider this, by the way, the examination of the law under Article 100 is necessary to this Parliament because many laws are not adopted even after a hundred months of consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1862	I just want to ask you to stick to the set agenda and she's the legal procedure. All MPs' proposals – the envoys are legitimate and in this context there will be no difference in the approach and there will be no difference with this college, whether someone in the parliamentary majority or not. Everyone carries the burden of responsibility and decision-making as elected envoy – a delegate in this high home, and I would ask you, in particular, not to enter some processes that could go in the direction of labelling or other political debates that are not the subject of our debate. Here you are, Your Honor, Ambassador Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1863	Gentlemen of the presidency, given that Mr Špirić is in his eloquent repeat of his views on the accession to the House of Peoples of BiH in respect of Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, mentioned that all this is done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, referring to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I believe that they have obtained the conditions that this House, after long preparations for this law, be made known according to this procedure, so, after 55 urgent procedures and that Mr Špirić, as well as Mr Divković, as well as the opposition, have the opportunity to make their contribution later in the amendments, which he will give after the statement. He looks forward to having regrouped the forces of position and opposition in the House, and now it's mixed up like cards and everyone's interested in doing a job that's useful.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1864	I only thank you so that there will be no business misunderstandings, the statement under Article 100 closes the possibility of an amendment. So there's no possibility of amendments, so the debate on this was completely legitimate. You didn't make yourself clear, so we couldn't understand you. If there is no one else to speak of, Mr Jusufović, but I would ask you to sign up for the discussion. According to Poslvonik, a written application has even been announced so that I will not be interrupted when I conclude the discussion that at the last minute you are reporting. Here you go, Mr. Jusufović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1865	Mr. Chairman, I think right now, I've thought for a long time and been in a dilemma whether to interrupt or not. Why? Because after what I heard and some additional new initiatives, it can be easily assumed that Mr Špirić said that he could not refuse to have reason to think about what he was talking about in some future headlines. However, generally it is also difficult to accept whether to rule out the possibility of a procedure per article 100. I am not for general approaches, so for these reasons I would not talk about it today although I think there is room to talk. Why did I come out? It's a procedure, after Mr. Divković's initiative. I think his argument that he made and I was asked to think very seriously about how I would vote, especially for reasons, right away, that I, when it comes to this law, have no doubts about whether it should be adopted or not. If he were extremely significant and had been, for a long time, in the process, so in a certain way, he caused the consequences on very large, in large issues, but after this initiative that Mr. Divković had, that it would not be understood that, perhaps, locally and I am looking at it, but the initiative that he explained, he certainly has his basis, especially for the reasons when considering that the College opened up such a path when he agreed, and I personally think that he would need to open it multiple times with the background. Why am I so vague right now? Is there any way, since the 100th is a member if the vote for procedure is no longer a story. What Mr. Spahić says about me changing later, there's no way anymore. For these reasons, I'm really in front of a big dilemma about how to vote, and so I'm asking that if you can find some modus, we don't break up in a certain way.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1866	I thank the honourable envoy, the dilemma may also be an expression of responsibility to the decision and vote to follow. I'd just like to make it clear because of the procedure. There is no possibility of making amendments, and, of course, following the adoption of 56 laws, it is possible to initiate the procedure for the adoption of amendments and amendments to the law, but these are some things that are not called amendments just for clarity. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1867	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, whenever in the materials I get the text of some law with a proposal to consider it by emergency procedure, or by Rule 100 of our Rules of Procedure, the first question to be asked is, in fact, whether this law is necessary at this point in time to the state of BiH and what are the reasons for the law being passed. I am not at all burdened by the complexity of the law, nor by the number of its members, because every law, of course, should be read, should be studied, regardless of the procedure, if nothing, then at least because a man as a responsible delegate in this house could finally be defined against the text of the law. This law at this time, according to my assessment, and I also think of the general assessment here in this house, is necessary at this point in the state of BiH and it is in the interest of the state that we, as delegates today, also support this procedure and the very text of the law. The reasons for the adoption of this law are stated in the reasoning of the law, and the introduction says that the adoption of this law will allow for the reform of the electricity system in BiH, which will meet the conditions of these or those, but the reform of the electricity system in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we know what the situation in the area is now, and I think that, as delegates, we should give support to both procedures and the law itself. Some issues, which were raised here today in the debate, particularly issues related to the seat of the Regulatory Agency or some other bodies, which are prescribed by this law, are therefore considered and can, of course, be considered once this law has been adopted. I don't mind that under some normal circumstances, under the circumstances of a constructive dialogue aimed at strengthening the BiH state we are also discussing these issues that Mr. Divković was talking about, but at this point, I think it's a lot more likely to give precedence to the procedure and the text of the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1868	I thank Ambassador Džaferović. I welcome the presence of the chairman of the BiH presidency of the Continuing session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. Mr Ivo Divković answered for the word and then for the replica Mr Špirić. Here you go, Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1869	Thank you very much and deeply for reporting for the same thing twice and that's not my practice. But what I'm saying is, I'm a man who works professionally in electricity. I know exactly how the el works. The energy system in BiH, as divided and how it should function after the adoption of this law. I know the functions of these three bodies of the body or whatever you want here that are proposed, one of which is a company, the other 57 is the Agency's regulatory and the third is practically the dispatch system of BiH, which is supposed to be the headquarters of the company in Banja Luka and I think it's good, because it needs to be regulated. These two other bodies, practically an agency and a dispatcher where it is predicted to be located in Sarajevo. I am a man who is among the first to pass this law and I will certainly vote in favour of the law, but for a law that is governed in the way that I think it should be for the best system to function as a whole and that in some ways, I would say, go to the environments that carry the energy burden in BiH at the moment and that is the essential part of my exposure. So, in no way am I questioning the quality of the law and the rule of law. My only objection and my only amendment, unless it's under article 100, which I'm going to ask to consider, is the seat of the Regulatory Agency, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1870	Thank you very much. I repeat, we are discussing procedure and there is no reason for the envoys and delegates of this high house to be sharing in any way now who is against and who is in favor of the law, since we are talking about procedure. Here, we'll probably state who's in favour of this procedure or of a different procedure and when the question comes, of course. Does Mr. Špirić stay at the replica? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1871	Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to explain some things that don't get the wrong impression. No Niko said this was one of the most important laws and one of the essential conditions for BiH's membership in the Council of Europe. So that's quite clear. But this is the first time that the law comes into parliamentary procedure. Where it's supposed to shrink and write laws and discuss laws. Who spent time before Parliament came to me, I am interested in it as a parliamentarian. But who has the right to take parliamentarian's right to discuss the essence of the law? That's the problem with Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is what we all repeat that from the custody phase we want in the partnership phase, etc. So it is not true that this law in Parliament stands long. This is the first time the law has entered the parliamentary procedure. I absolutely agree with Mr. Divković, even with his amendment when he talks about the essence of the law. But, in order not to, you remember that there is a Council of Ministers conclusion that it will decentralise various agencies around BiH that stand for two and a half years. Do we have an attitude? Is there anything that happened on the trail of what Mr. Divković was talking about? There isn't. Does that mean we have to offer the law here as an emergency procedure? We have entered a vicious circle which, I assure you, is not good for Parliament. Nowhere in the world is there, that what has been the subject of a two-month parliamentary debate in BiH is going by emergency procedure. So you can Budget by emergency procedure, then a succession by emergency procedure, then a law of energy by emergency procedure, and everything that is the subject of a serious parliamentary analysis in the world, is an emergency procedure, without the first MP for intervention. Now, that's not good for parliamentary practice. It is not good for BiH that I am convinced, and as far as I am concerned, I will not agree to such parliamentary work in the future. I suggest we read Article 100 as delegates. It says, when the proposal for a high-level emergency law or which is formulated in such a simple way that it can only be adopted or rejected, a fully-proposed proposer can ask 58 homes to consider it in a single reading. This is the most complex law ever. It's a good legal solution. So it's not about a law that can be said that should be rejected because there's work and effort behind it. But it is that the delegate and MP can improve the legal text in the interests of this state, so in this way they question the will of delegates and MPs to defend the state's interest. Is it necessary to nail a member of the 100th so that someone doesn't work against the state, which is absolute nonsense. That's why I'm not in the process because it's often used. Please, today at the agenda points of all the legal projects, so, of all, take here the journalists let the analysis of the 10 laws eight is an emergency procedure without the first to discuss. What kind of parliament is that? So 80% is without an MP's right to participate at all except raise his hand. If that's the case, don't let us come here to spend money, there's no money in BiH. We could've gone home. Whoever has the Internet, the Internet vote or the phone call Parliament's leadership and say, "Don't let us come to the diaries, the oily, the fuel is all this expensive we're in for, that we're really not making a joke out of Parliament." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1872	I'm thanking you. I think this was a replica or a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1873	Just for a little while. I need to comment on these discussions, which I apparently provoked, I provoked by my discussion. So, Mr Špirić, let me just say that this Parliament works the way it should, as a delegate and as a lawyer, so first of all, I could respect these reasons that you're talking about when the procedure is a question. Mr Špirić, let's say the law on the Court of BiH, which was imposed by the High Representative, he has been living in practice for over a year and a half, and I don't know, I can't remember anymore, but surely over a year and a half, but here we are here today in a parliamentary debate, today after a year and a half around that law, there is no agreement. I say and repeat, I have been led, when it comes to such conditions of work by Parliament, BiH's interests and another matter concerning Mr Divković's discussion. I come from Zenica, I come from the Zenico-Doboj canton, which also has significant power potentials and, of course, I could, for these or those reasons, say tomorrow when I come to Zenica that I've fought everything for it and that's why, to insist on some seats and some agencies and something else, something. However, the situation here is such that if we do not consider the law today under Article 100, it will take several months for this law to see the light of the day in this house, if it even sees it and in that period it needs to sit systemically, systematically resolve the issues of accommodation of various agents of their headquarters. It can't be like this. I'll bet the amendment, put this amendment in, and how whoever tabled the amendment goes to where the amendment was requested. At the level of the BiH state, it is necessary to sit down and systematically resolve the issue, and I am in favour of system-editing this issue in line with certain criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1874	59 I think that the debate has really passed in bringing out a lot of arguments and accepting the 100th procedure and refusing this procedure. I think both are very legitimate. I will remind you of the Council of Ministers, asking for this procedure, not to call for the uniformity of the law, but to the urgency of the law, and it is very clear in the act that you received just for the sake of correctness. I also highly appreciate these provisions to consider the law. I don't think we should discuss at all that today's law has been passed and, please, the court law is in the procedure of the reconciliation process and it's not good in one such process to label any, any statement, any envoys, I'm just asking you to accept the legitimacy of everyone and there's no reason, otherwise, because of the efficiency of the work to comment on everyone's discussions. There are logical differences in this statement. Which is to accept the procedure under Article 100. The law on transmission, regulator and operator of the power system in BiH proposes the Council of Ministers. Who's against this procedure? Who's being held back? There's no entity majority. This law, i.e. the procedure for declaring this law, is going to be brought into line with some of the previous laws that we have discussed. I thank the envoys - the delegates. Moving to point 8. Ad.8. A statement by the People's House that the law on the purpose and use of property, which Bosnia and Herzegovina receives under the Agreement on Ex-SFRJ Sucession Issues, is being considered under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure, therefore, by emergency procedure – the Proposer is the Council of Ministers I think you all have a Rules of Procedure and there is no need for me to read the emergency procedure and what it means, I will just remind you that this law is being considered with two shorter deadlines than the general procedure of considering and adopting the law in the parliamentary procedure. First, we'll have a debate, see if we can discuss the law according to Article 99. Do you have the Council of Ministers, I see that it has already grown to a very high number of representatives of the Council of Ministers. Do any of the present representatives of the Council of Ministers need to further explain the importance, motivation of the Council of Ministers? If not, I'm opening the debate. Whoever answers the words of the envoys - delegates, therefore, we are having a debate whether we will consider this law in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Mr Špirić answered for the word and I suppose more envoys – delegates whom I kindly ask to raise their hands.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1875	Gentlemen of the chairmanship, the Honorable Chairman of the BiH presidency, the guest-respecting fellow delegate, 60 The Law on Succession has been the subject of attention and parliamentary debate since November 2001. We were then asked by the Council of Ministers of BiH to, therefore, by an urgent procedure without the right to amend, discuss this legislative project, and in the next one, it seemed twice to me that the urgency of Article 100 of course did not take place in this Parliament and, more than ever, it pointed out that Parliament was right and that, as regards the means of succession, it was absolutely an unprepared legal project which it produced, whose, of course, extra-legal application has also produced some damage to BiH. I'm asking the question. How is it possible for BiH to ratify the Agreement on Sequencings as the only state of the former Yugoslavia and subsequently determine that the funds that are the subject of legal regulation do not exist in us? What kind of expert groups are these, what kind of experts are they, and how is it possible to show that these pairs are gone at all? How is it possible that all the authorities in BiH have been disembarked, and even we have ratified the Agreement to have it? How is it possible for the Council of Ministers outside the legal solution to sell gold on the world market when gold is cheapest? Let them tell me if at that time on the stock market and one European or any state brought its gold reserves to sell them and what experts advised that it was good? But when the price of gold is calculated now, and when the Council of Ministers passed by the law, Bosnia and Herzegovina lost 11 million marks, and you gentlemen know when one of the international humanitarian organisations donates 200,000 to the work of the home of the unfortunate returnees that the media in BiH is full because it is useful and good. So it's good 200 thousand marks, but 11 million people lost with substances doesn't matter at all. It's not even called extra-legal action. It's not even called crime. It's called good for BiH. It's a strange good and unfortunately it goes away and instead of being the reason for different stories in BiH, and even responsibility, we're talking about how we've made an unprecedented progress so far. If progress is to lose to the gold 11 million in two and a half months, I don't know what degress is, and I don't know where they've learned and where they're talking and what economic school is teaching students, so I'm going to bring it closer to the youth that it's better to keep it in conversion marks in the central bank's passive at interest I don't know 1 or 2% is irrelevant, but in monetized gold. I would like that thesis or theory to be explained to me, that those who try to explain it to the public. Now I want to go back to the procedure. If by any chance luck, if there were quality debates, we would have a law on succession in the ordinary procedure adopted in January of the month because everyone would say what we have to say about this law with a lot of love for their country came to a rational use of funds. What happened? He says you don't pass a conflict law on BiH. Come on, hurry up. Come on, it's not the law that's left BiH, the authorities are working on a solution, so once again, it has to be said urgently to cover all the nonsense that has been done over these means to say, you know, it's not urgent, it's half urgent. What kind of seriousness is that? If there was a reason for urgency in December, why is he not a member of the 100th? What problems have we been through? Where are we now? Please, since the law treats the resources it doesn't have, which will probably be the problem of different court disputes, they're not. I am to see in the regular procedure what can be done with these means so as not to make an even more dangerous mistake, just for those reasons. So gold is sold can no longer be returned to make up for 11 million, that's special attention, but to see in the ordinary procedure whether the law will at least erase the part that is controversial, which is not there and that someone doesn't respond again you know Nikola's Špirić against it for this and that reason, it's destruction etc. No, it's a serious concern 61 for this country, gentlemen. When we asked for these funds to be the subject of parliamentary control, rather than a double budget to the Council of Ministers, they were various tenorous inscriptions. Here's a good law prepared, only this Nikola Špirić to knit his ears and everything's fine. What is it today? Does anyone need this country to explain what happened? There's no one here. I don't know just what reason? I beg you, I am, therefore, for the regular procedure. I do not dispute that every delegate in the scale with a business procedure pleads or that it is possible for us to vote in law today or tomorrow on the funds that are not available? Which we don't know what it's going to be, and that's where it says 130 million converting marks. I have to say that even these 130 million assets that come from the sale of gold, there's nothing to develop. We've lost 11 million, 9 million goes for printing documents, 20 I don't know how much 10% is out for some fast technology, and I don't know what else. Where's the money? 10 to cover last year's rebalancing for the State Border Service and where there are money for development and for the pensioners they were talking about. I was saying that this category of people was put into law so that it would suppress the social valve to adopt a bad law and today I'm right. There's no money. Everyone saw on a small tree 130 million left over from the sale of gold, and it took 15 days to cover deeper entity budgets and the Central Budget for last year, to pour a little encouragement to the pensioners that there would be little for them and there would be no, that it would be for development and then take a good look at the law and define that the funds for development are primarily these funds that are not available. That 130 million is meant for the development of unfortunate charm. So the means to develop are the ones that are today said not to exist. What kind of law is that? Who wrote the law and thousands of things. So, I'm against short-term procedures, because it turns out that it's not a good rush not to make another mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1876	I thank Mr. Špirić. The president of the BiH presidency, Mr Belkić, spoke. Here's the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1877	Gentlemen, immediately to explain why I came forward, I came from the position of the institution that participated in the ratification of the agreement Mr Špirić maločas about and where he listed several questions, which have not received answers so far. Of course, Mr. Špirić, in order to avoid confusion, I have the authority to speak as chairman here, because you usually ask me if I'm on my own, etc. So, the Bureau, on the basis of the information that you saw in the press, reacted, of course, as quickly as possible by procedure and requested information from our team that participates in these activities, and we received that information at the Bureau meeting yesterday and considered it. The fact is that 130 million, which is the subject of this law, have been spent. Therefore, at the time of signing the Agreement on Succession, the funds of 655 million were determined by the measuring experts designated by the High Representative and the US Treasury Ministry, etc. and they were the subject of the agreement and such an agreement has also ratified both this home and the Presidency. But in the meantime the SRJ is most likely, we 62 asked, I'll tell you what the presidency did spent the money. So, as a signator of the agreement, the National Bank of Yugoslavia spent money on its orders. We have requested, of course, Mr Špirić, but they have international relations and some further measures to be taken. Yesterday, the Bureau took note of this information and requested that through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs guidelines immediately protests against countries which did not sign the Agreement that it was urgently, or not ratified by the agreement to rapidly ratify it, we gave instructions to our people who took part in the Standing Committee on Monitoring of the Implementation of the Agreement to immediately request the 18th session of the Standing Committee from the other members of the Committee to take joint action towards the governments of countries that did not ratify it and to ask the High Representative and International arbitration and the Signatory States to determine precisely under which letters they were missing and how the funds were spent. Of course, there is the possibility that in the further process of succession, therefore, there is the possibility that BiH, if everything is determined that is true, is what I am saying that BiH is being depreciated. It is true that at this point, the 130 million are not in the account, and they are subject to the Sucession Act, but they are subsequently indicated that they will be deployed as they arrive, as they will be realised, as I remember, but I would not enter into the things that the biller should say. When it comes to selling gold for your information, the Presidency has supported the Council of Ministers to do so, because we have had full confidence in the reasons that are then mentioned and I believe that the Proposer, or Council of Ministers, will, as far as I know, have today a pig's law and prepare the information, which is likely to be available to everyone here and to us. I believe they'll argue these things and explain, 11 million gone. Have we lost or not, I dare not say that, because there are other aspects of this whole transaction, but here for your information the Presidency has supported the Council of Ministers in this action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1878	The speaker, Mr. Tokić, picked up the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1879	Dear Chairman of the BiH Presidency, delegates – MPs of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, I think this law and issues that are open to a one-off debate, and in this context I would like to say a few of my views. First, I believe that in public, there has been too much manipulation, indifference, even exiting from the correct relationship of some Ministers' Council ministers towards this high House of Parliament. I'm very sorry that Mr. Domazet isn't here, but it won't stop me from calling him personally, and in a certain way I'm addressing several of the statements Mr. Domazet made. I'm talking about the act of selling gold. The act of selling gold and the act of having the funds of the succession, the jurisdiction of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and whether the post-festum act will be supported by the Presidency or not, or whether this House will support or not, it is a question of this home, but it cannot disturb, nor justify, the act. Allow the House of Peoples, or the Parliamentary Assembly, could be determined to provide for and safeguard the funds of the Gold Sucession in the law. So, let's get these things straight, so it's completely at this point, from an aspect of the act that doesn't matter who 63 supports who doesn't. I want to say that it was done in a way that had not been authorized by the minister, and in particular that this decision or decision by the Council of Ministers, I will certainly give the information, which is an interpretation that the House of Representatives has adopted it, so he thought that the House of Nations would adopt it, so he sold gold more quickly. It's bringing this home to a position I as chairman won't allow. However, to make the matter even more dramatic, Mr. Domazet said it wasn't telling the truth, although she was from a legal point of view completely irrelevant, because the moment this law entered the procedure for the first time gold was already sold and the House of Representatives had not passed this law. These are very important facts. About whether it's smarter to keep financial resources in gold, that's not the point. I have my own position, and in this respect it is very well known that those countries are considered to have smarter leadership in this area within the new world order. With that I would ask, we will discuss the procedure today, but I would very question the context and this issue of the Agreement on Sucession. The truth is, the Sucession Agreement hasn't ratified, according to my information, any country. It is alleged that Macedonia has ratified, but neither Yugoslavia nor Croatia has ratified Slovenia according to information that I have that will change the Agreement and that new protocols and additions to the agreement will have to be done. This whole conflict law issue brings me to the point where the Council of Ministers might consider withdrawing this law. About the withdrawal of this law. Since I don't see here from the three present representatives of the Council of Ministers no one interested in setting up a position of interpretation or motion. We will, of course, continue the debate, but I remind you that if this law is not withdrawn until the plea, which will follow at this session of the House, we will certainly have the position that this law, as it is, will go into an emergency or regular procedure depending on its statement and there will be no procedural possibility of its withdrawal. I would once again ask that in the future the Council of Ministers stick to its powers, respect this parliament, and I will dare not manipulate the public because Mr Domazet's statements were elements of what can rightly be called manipulation, because those statements have not been denied. Thank you. In a further debate, envoy Ibrahim Spahić and then delegate Ilić announced their participation. Here you go, Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1880	Mr. Belkić and his colleagues from the House and representatives of the Council of Ministers, I would just like to say that in the form in which we are talking right now, I wanted to say that I am not going to say anything but it is my pleasure to say that Mr. Domazet is coming in, given what we heard from Mr. Špirić and Mr. Tokić that it is important that we break the debate on the procedure in this situation rather than hear a statement that is important from the minister, as the minister has just entered, I have no other requirements.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1881	64 Mr. Ilich, shall we make a statement to you, or shall you exercise your right. Here you go. The minister hasn't said a word yet. Yes, he did. We are honored by his coming, but he hasn't asked for a word yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1882	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of my fellow Members, I am, indeed, confused with what I hear today after the debate we had on the law in question, here today is information that is completely confusing. If by chance we had passed that law, then when it was in the procedure, we would have made a terrible mistake, because they would have brought something that doesn't exist. I, indeed, cannot believe the irresponsibility of the people who are proposing this law, and they probably knew about what came to the surface today, and I would therefore ask for the responsibility of the promoter for this indignity, because this is indeed an indignity and the public of BiH should know what authority in BiH is, because this is unacceptable for us to find out today after two and a half months when we have suffered the criticism of the pensioners, when it has been manipulated with the public that today is recognised as being manipulated with the public. Indeed, this is inadmissible. I'm stoned.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1883	Thank you. The word came from Mr Genjac, then Džaferović, then the minister, but if you can allow it, perhaps the minister could help prevent some more discussions. Okay, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1884	Dear colleagues, the closest word to be used to describe this situation is astonishment. You have noticed that the leadership of Parliament or part of our leadership of our home, Mr Špirić and Mr Tokić, on occasion, have a similar view of this law. Otherwise, on a few issues and that's very good, and I wouldn't disturb that relationship. However, what I simply cannot understand is that our leadership of Parliament or part of our Parliament has such different and conflicting views on the views of the Council of Ministers. Gentlemen, the same political structures have chosen the leadership of this parliament and the same political structures have chosen this council of ministers. What's Wednesday? What's it called? Is this recorded in political practice? How the Council of Ministers can explain that since November of the month, an emergency procedure has provided an extremely important law. We see the seriousness of this question, we try to get rid of it. In Parliament's leadership, we have access not to deal with this urgently, and once the funds are only spent from the accounts, part of our Parliament's leadership you see that we were right. So, for your performance and your relationship to one law, very significant and necessary, you use the argument that someone cheated on someone, which someone robbed says, so you see that we're right. 65 My opinion, not a word of this law can we say further until the Council of Ministers has made clear and decidently clear what this is all about.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1885	I'm thanking you. Mr. Špirić's replica, so I'll do it after the replica if you give me your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1886	Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. I ask delegates, colleagues to talk about the problem. There is no part of Parliament's leadership here, but Parliament's leadership that doesn't have to think the same thing about everything, as delegates don't think when they say they're going through, and that doesn't bother me. I have made clear my position that Mr. Genjac does not have to agree with, and if it were so that everything that comes from the Council of Ministers here, those who have chosen the Council of Ministers unreservedly supports, then it would be too much to sit here those who support the Council of Ministers to sit down the opposition to have them three to be a debate club. I'm not getting into it. I ask you, therefore, to talk about the problem, not about socializing and going to see if anyone likes what sometimes an identical, different or similar thought, and it would be good to have a closer opinion in this House, regardless of which option. I have the impression that you'd love to have a fight between me and Mr. Tokić, but it won't make you sad. I appreciate Mr. Tokić as much as you do and I can agree with him or disagree with you. Why do you deny me this right? Why can't I think the same as Divković or Goran the Turjačanin, but you don't respect me for being a wild drug dealer. What kind of idyll do you want us all to think of as SDA? That's what many went for, so they repented, I hope.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1887	First I answered the line, but you can, I wouldn't disturb.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1888	Mr Špirić, I, indeed, would not be thrilled if you were arguing with Mr Tokić, because in the past two years, at each session half of the session, you argued and I know what it is and I am glad you said, but I would like that co-operation to be in BiH's interest, and it could be in BiH's interest if you have co-operation with the Council of Ministers, which your party groups have appointed. If you repeat your approach from session to session that everything the Council of Ministers does you do not accept. Then the question is, how can it be solved? Many questions can be settled before Parliament's meeting with the Council of Ministers, because you are Parliament's leadership. You are obliged to do so, and that is why I am saying that your cooperation and your good relations and your idyll could be productive if it were co-operation with the Council of Ministers at the same time.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1889	66 The Honorable Chairman of the Presidency, delegates – the envoys of the House of Peoples, of course, sometimes impress me about how they talk about gold and succession, then turn a little into a story about me, and with that I have no excessive relationship, but on a very direct question that Mr Genjac has raised here, and he asked for an answer as to what it is called when there are different opinions and attitudes, within the ruling political group, it is called democracy. That's what it's called and he's put on another thesis. Why delegates – representatives of the ruling parliamentary majority who... do not agree before the meeting with the Council of Ministers to agree on positions before the Council of Ministers' meeting, means conducting to Parliament, which is contrary to democracy. I just wanted a quick answer. This is the process of the future. I hope this is definitely a process of the past. About how I will plead on certain issues and as an envoy in this House and on my relationship I always say it transparently and there is no reason for anyone to call me in this regard which is very clear to the public and I believe that I belong to the order of transparent politicians. You have no need to expose any of my statements. As far as this law is concerned, I repeat, for me are the controversial statements of Mr. Domazet, I repeat because Domazet came, that he would not convince anyone he defined to have gold sold because it was adopted at the House of Representatives and he thought it would be adopted in the House of Nations, so... he sold gold and I said. The adoption of the House of Representatives does not mean anything from the point of view of the Parliamentary Assembly's decision and that is not true, because the law that was then discussed followed after the sale of gold and, secondly, I did not enter whether gold should be kept. The means of succession in gold to store or place it in development or deficits etc. by the content of the law, but I said it was the ingenuity of the Parliamentary Assembly and I said that only parliamentarians can declare it, because it is a seduction of the right to support, among other things, the concept that I do not support and which Mr Špirić has a little bit stated here that this should be kept in gold, but it is the right of the Parliamentary Assembly. There's so much, with intent and desire for this to continue to be a debate on the procedure. I'd like to ask you to continue our work. Mr. Džaferović, unless Mr. Domazette is allowed to take precedence. It's just a... It's a... It's a... It's a... It's
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1890	Maybe this is democracy, too. I get to the pay phone and then if I don't allow Mr. Minister, but I think it'll be more useful if I ask a few questions so the minister can answer. Mildly put, I am amazed at some of the information that I received through the media about the events that occurred after we had this law in parliamentary procedure at the end of December and after he had experienced what he had experienced. I voted for that law then with a deep belief that it would help a significant number of people who are socially endangered, but here I am first to show you when someone would ask me how to determine how to comply with this law, I really don't know, and that's why I'm going to ask a few questions. I would ask, first of all, the Minister to give an answer and it would be good to get written information and the position of the Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency on these issues. 67 I would pray, it is serious matters, so you are following the conclusion of an agreement on the succession of the BiH state to steal, kidnapping 130 million. Please nice, I want to know, first question when did this happen? Have these funds been available to BiH on the day this law collapsed in this home. That's the first question. Would BiH today have the funds available if this law had been passed the day it collapsed in this home, which is December of last year. That's the first question. Second question. By whose authority, on the basis of which act did the Council of Ministers cash gold, turn them into foreign exchanges? At what price? What total mass of funds has been achieved? To indicate the trends in gold prices on the world market from the day it was done to this day. There is different information that BiH has suffered damages of around 5 million marks. Today we hear a figure mentioned in Parliament of 11 million marks, and was it even possible, by any authority, to convert these funds into gold into currency? I am asking, in addition to the minister's reply today, for this speaker to deliver information in writing and the issue is to the BiH presidency. I want as a delegate to the House of Naturals to know, if true, that the BiH state has been kidnapped 130 million. What the BiH country presidency will do to settle the damage to BiH, also in written form. This is a very serious question for me, and I therefore require information in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1891	I think it's certainly important to have this information during this clarification on the procedure, but I would ask you to still return the procedure. Today we probably can't get information, and we'll have time to, eventually, as a Dom or as a College or as individual envoys, get to investigate individual information, but I'm talking about procedure and in this context, a long-standing Minister of the House has Domazet. Here you go, Minister. I'm sorry, the minister has already received his word after a long wait.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1892	Mr. Chairman of the Bureau, the esteemed Presidency of this High House, the esteemed MPs, we are proposing, in fact, a new text of the law on the purpose of using the funds of the succession, in the Council of Ministers, from the same assumptions that we had and when we proposed acquittal which was in parliamentary procedure since November, including December last year, and I must tell you that nothing has changed in this respect. The amount of funds that we then presented in terms of, the value of the funds, in fact, that were in the Bank for International Alignment in Basel was changed in different variants in the October bill, that was 153.5 million. In this November proposal, it was 151.5 million, and it was retained in this bill. 68 The exact value of the funds available to us, obtained from the Bank for International Alignment with State 28.2. is 154.8 million. So it's not that they're not diminished, it's also increased 154.8 million marks. The value of the funds expected by the distribution of assets located at the National Bank of Yugoslavia remains unchanged at 130m marks and incorrect information is that these funds, I don't know how they have been deprecated here, denied BiH. The truth is next. We also had information in the concession agreement on the text of the Agreement, which was signed in Vienna in June 2001, an amount of $645m of funds entered into the accounts of mixed banks abroad and is now shown as real 56m. In that sense, about $590m is due to a depth of about $90m, or $90m for BiH, but those funds were not included anywhere in this text of the law and we didn't even count with them. So we have offered both this home and the House of Representatives only those assets that are real, which are in reality existing. And the activity to get these funds in the way is in progress, but that $90 million extra funding, so somewhere around 190 million marks have never been proposed or included in this text of the law and would certainly be declared after being traced to them. For now, the C Committee for the Implementation of Annex C, i.e. Financial assets, works on a multilateral plan and seeks to track down the National Bank of Yugoslavia, hiring central banks of countries in which mixed banks are located, etc. So that was to say incorrect interpretations and, if these interpretations were used to disqualify the Council of Ministers, then they speak more of those who launched them than the Council of Ministers themselves. We, therefore, have had a certain degree of responsibility which, according to the Constitution and demands, have approached this problem, we have offered you accurate information. As for the sale of gold today, it is on the Council of Ministers of Information, information that you can get, and it will be available to the public. According to the Agreement on Ex-Yugoslavia Sucessions, signed in June in Vienna, we received the 195,543 UNC gold. One UNC is about 31 grams. In discussions on the use of concession funds, the Ministerial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the entity government agreed that gold should be converted into money and, together with the other property obtained by the succession, used for the purposes to be determined by a special law to be adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Following the adoption of the text of the law on the purpose and use of the assets received by Bosnia and Herzegovina under the Agreement on the Ex-SFRJ Sucession, the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly was to discuss the same law on 21 December 2001. We had already had, following the ratification of the agreement in Parliament, an agreement on the succession had been decided by the Council of Ministers on the sale of gold. After the activities were conducted so as to determine the purpose of these funds and in anticipation of the final debate at the House of Peoples we gave, we realised that decision and the gold was sold by the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina, earning an income of $53.4m at the price of $273.20 per UNC gold. 69 Here is the display of the price of gold in the last year, this graphic display shows how the price of gold was moving. The price of gold went from $250 to $290 media is somewhere around 270 to 275. And the price of gold as one significant product which is actually one of the forms of insurance for investors when the price of shares and the outlook of the economy falls, the price of gold jumps. So over the year, on the markets, the price of gold moves in very large ranges. And at the point when we were selling gold, she was 273. Behind this, you could have expected a jump and a fall. The forecasts were very different. And we simply wanted before the final debate on this law to have money converted, we have gold turned into money. Let me point out that the cost of keeping is coming to gold, and the money is being paid. Therefore, I can give about what the Council of Ministers was offered today as a conclusion, which is that the gold from the succession was sold in a certain situation in mid-December 2000, from December 12th to 14th, and the dollars obtained by gold were converted into EUR in mid-January 2002. In all similar operations ext post, i.e. It may subsequently be assessed and made different assessments of the decisions taken, depending on whether prices are jumping or falling. The decision to sell gold and convert dollars into EUR was based on the legitimate decision of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers and had their economic justification in the context given. As this context changes, therefore, other motives are delayed by using money obtained by the sale of gold and can be developed by numerous combinations. There's a folk saying, "After color, they're all generals." The total funds obtained by the succession that are now on the Central Bank's account and not even the dinar has been spent and the fening has not been spent, not only have they not been reduced compared to the October bill's proposal, but the increase is 154.8 million marks. Each month, these funds bring interest from 300 to 330,000 marks and await Parliament's final decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1893	I thank Minister Domazet for his very comprehensive presentations. A whole series of debaters reported earlier. I'd first like to clarify the Turjačanin if you've come forward about the business procedure. Then you have a priority, and the first debater is Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1894	Dear gentlemen, the chairman of the BiH presidency, respected members of the Council of Ministers, media representatives. I just called, and I wanted to object. I think we've entered something that's not called the agenda point. We here, in fact, should have declared ourselves to the procedure under this legal we have heard quite a lot here in fact already and substancefully. What I expected from the minister, I expected him to explain to us why he was going through article 99 at today's session and whether that was not explained enough from his discussion. I've been told more about the price, not to say moving the price of gold in justifying these indiscretions for this pay phone. Next thing you know, I'm gonna say. 70 I think this pay phone was used enough to discuss the content when this law was at its own time in the procedure and that some things were said here, even from my mouth about some irregularities in the price of gold by the two laws we were getting. No one looked back on that. And there was so much more to say about this pay phone. I think that we should get the chairman out of this debate in this way and make it clear only about what's called. As far as these questions are concerned, we have had these issues as delegates in the first item of the agenda, and this point is also closed in the first part of the session so that I do not see the need to go here with delegate issues at the same time and towards the Council of Ministers and according to the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. There's only that much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1895	Please, I respect this intervention, it was really good if we could get back to the procedure. I think Mr. Domazet is, Minister Domazet simply answered those questions that were raised during the debate, so it's more a matter of debate between MPs than a representative of the Council of Ministers. The word was answered by Mr. Divković, and then Mr. Džaferović and Špirić again. I would ask you to try to return the discussion to what will follow as statements. We will probably have time to identify ourselves individually or as a House or as a Commission and get all relevant information. Finally, the minister also announced that he would deliver the information as soon as the Council of Ministers wraps up the debate today. Here you go, Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1896	Thank you, dearly respected fellow I must say that I am pleased that we have had the opportunity to be familiar today with all the transactions related to these concession funds, primarily to the sale of gold, the way, the price of the sale. So all those questions that were asked here seem to be answered precisely and clearly by the minister. Is everyone satisfied with it or not, that's another question. It sort of cleared things up and gave the opportunity to plead here about the procedure that the chairman keeps talking about, and that's what I'm going to come back to. When it comes to procedures, I'm saying this is a practical law that perhaps the longest I've said would be the most intense we've been living with in the last months. This is a very short law, a very clear law, a very precise law, almost taught it by heart. This proposal that we now have in front of us is practically the same, or almost the same proposal that I tried on Article 100 in a parliamentary procedure two months ago to put here in a parliamentary procedure that didn't get support then, and then I'll remind you that it didn't get support for the reason that we all found after the break here, and it was asked that the funds that go on a credit basis to entities were unscamable 71 funds. It was a fundamental difference which made the law not getting the support to go according to Article 100 last time. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. In this draft law, I see that, in the light of the proposed solutions in Article 100, it is defined that these are unscathed means, and I personally conclude that there is no objectively, at least when it comes to this part of the law written and what we have stated so far is that there are no obstacles indeed to this law going through an urgent procedure, given that it has been proposed by the Council of Ministers under Article 99. Let it go according to Article 99, although I would personally support this text by way of Article 100. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1897	I thank Mr. Divković for his orientation of the discussion on the procedure. Mr. Džaferović answered for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1898	I have to ask for further clarification. Either I didn't hear right, or I misunderstood, but I'll tell you what I'm thinking right now. So I think that the Bureau member, Mr Belkić and Minister Domazet, gave me two different information on the fate of these 130 million marks. Please, I'm allowing myself to make a mistake and ask for clarification, please. The first discussion that opened this agenda point today said these couples are gone, spent. I remind you, the means of succession, it seems to me that this thing is not clear to others either, and I'm asking for clarification, so it's actually two types of funds, two groups of funds. In point 1, these are the funds in monetary gold and on the accounts of the former SFRY National Bank belonging to Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with the criteria set out in Annex C to the Agreement on the Succession of cca 130 million KM and other means of succession available to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and they originate from the Bank for International Alignment in Basel cca 151.513.000,00 KM. I understood today from the debate until I took the floor before this discussion that these 130 million under Article 3 of Article 1 of the law could not be made available to Bosnia and Herzegovina, because Yugoslavia had spent them. By listening to the minister's statement, I realized that these 130 million at this point in Bosnia and Herzegovina are available and that Yugoslavia has not spent these funds, but some other funds of about 600m dollars that should be subject to additional agreements in the process itself, and have not been questioned at all by the International Bank for Alignment in Basel. I request an answer to the question of what about 130 million KM funds of monetary gold and the accounts of the former SFRY National Bank belonging to Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with the criteria of the Annex C concession agreement? Because these are the funds that are allocated to this law for certain purposes. When I get an answer to that question, I'll be able to plead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1899	72 I thank Mr. Džaferović, only Mr. Džaferović, you asked for written information. I think such written information will come, but if he can help with the word he called the chairman of the presidency. You want the chairman to wait, there's one more question I'd like to ask. Here, do you agree that at this moment before Mr Belkić and Mr Domazet come forward, a question can be asked to clarify. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1900	Thank you. Unfortunately, my assessment is confirmed, after this information is completely contradictory, that there is no co-operation and conversation here. Severe accusations have been made, difficult words have been made to individuals and, of course, we cannot do so until complete information has been obtained. But I have at least two questions left besides everything mentioned. Mr. Domazet said the funds which are currently problematic and which are mentioned to have been spent at the National Bank of Yugoslavia or that they disappeared after they were not treated with this law. They're not even treated by this law. And this law has been treated with 130 million.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1901	I'm just asking for a stenogram, and you ask a question for everything, and there are other questions for the envoys, and then we'll do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1902	Therefore, in the draft law of Article 3(1), the funds of monetary gold and the accounts of the former SFRY National Bank belonging to Bosnia and Herzegovina shall be treated in accordance with the annexes on the succession of the amount of the former SFRY 130 million and will finally be determined through the process of the division of those funds between the countries of the former SFRY. It is later stated in the law that these funds that I have just mentioned, so in Article 3(1), they are used as a whole to fund development projects in entities and on a credit basis for end-users of funds. So these 130 million that have not been fixed, orientationally established, are treated in the law in the way I've said it. As I understand it, Mr. Domazet, there are still some resources beyond those that will later agree and distribute. That is one question, the second question is really what has been led by the Council of Ministers to propose, in November, a law on procedure under article 100, which means urgent adoption? That 73 afterwards we have an atmosphere in the House of Peoples that one of the MPs quite justifiably proposes the same law under the same procedure as Article 100, to make numerous statements that really suggest that it is not only a significant law, but also a very important time-limit for its adoption. What led the Council of Ministers to now deliver in the procedure the draft law under the procedure of Article 99 means all those deadlines of not knowing for 2-3 months only halved.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1903	I thank Mr. Genjac. He'd give his word to Špirić, considering there'd be questions. If any of the envoys, the delegates have a question as to how they might obtain information that may be relevant for the declaration of procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1904	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll take a moment, and of course I'll ask you some questions. It seems to me that the more the debate breaks down, the more I'm right. There's no development. The zec in the woods, and the ray in the hands. There's no development. There's no means to develop. And I'm going to say about what I think and what motivated the Council of Ministers to do, and they're right to me, Mr Genjac and Mr. Džaferović when they say that Article 3, if Mr. Domazet says it wasn't the subject of distribution, it seems to me or I haven't read the law or Mr. Minister. In Article 3 of these 130 million, which has been set up and which will be the subject of the talks, agreements and negotiations, is divided into another member of the law, where it is said: the funds of the concession under Article 4 of this law will be allocated to the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a 65%, the Republic of Serbia 35%, and then to Article 4 is said – the funds referred to in Article 3(1) shall be used as a whole to finance development projects. That's ridiculous. It's an asset that's not there. Which we don't know what they're going to be, which we're assessing, which today is said to be somewhat controversial, they're the only ones going into development. What I saw motivated the Council of Ministers. So, gentlemen, delegates, have we adopted the Rebalance budget? Whether last year's budget is up, the administrative part of the budget is 80%. So what do you think he's going to cover himself with... why was the Council of Ministers happy when he went through his rebalancing, because he covered the depths from these funds he had. But that's where they break the law, too. He has to warn them. I can't cover last year's rebalancing revenues from March this year, if the law says it can be credited, but that means at the moment of February 28th, unless they think the rebalancing can be covered by 2003 funds. That's one thing. So I share this vision to discuss the assets that have not been determined.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1905	Wait a minute. This was just a question, so please focus on the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1906	74 Here's another question. Mr. Domazet said the price of gold on the stock market ranged from $250 to $290 per UNC. 250 to 290. It's between 20% and 25% and now it's said the thesis is bad to keep gold in gold bars, it's better to replace it in KM and get a 3% interest. Big difference. What kind of experts are they? Well, you know what a stock exchange is, at least Minister Domazet doesn't need to talk. If it's known in months when they'll collect oil, except for some big earthquakes. But at that point, an agreement was reached to cover the deficits of the entity budgets and the budgets of the joint bodies. People made a deal. They didn't need Parliament, when they needed Parliament, then, you know, when a parliamentarian enters the procedure, there are some things that are not visible at that time. And it's not true that an agreement has been reached to give to entities...
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1907	Mr. Špirić, let's not really ask, these are findings.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1908	And here's a question. It has been said that an agreement has been reached between the entities and that the funds will be given on the credit principle unambiguously. That's not true. It's a slow credit relationship, not interest. I'd like someone to show me the written material that says it's a deal. Here, I'll vote for that law. So a lot of things have been disputed and it's been revealed and I don't see and what really bothers me is that since November of the month, we've been going three times in a shortened procedure. That's three times 22, 65 days, we didn't make it. Let's get an emergency procedure, so it's not an emergency again. And you know why it's not urgent. Entity budgets were adopted, a little empty and managed to satisfy this level of activity. But there was a trunk left from last year. This law is now not urgent and is only waiting to cover entity, gep entity budgets and joint bodies from last year and there is no means to develop here because there is no way. I'd be begging to get it together from where. If the project is covered by passports, joint documents, border services, budget rebalancing, pensions, disability and everything else it says, and that's again in the trunk of 51 million. Where's the money? If this 130 million isn't available. Does that mean, here's a question that it's going to be Law 2 on Sucession? And that's the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1909	Okay. Thank you. If there is no one, I would really ask you not to conduct the discussions in a way that you end up putting a questionnaire. So we have an agreement that we are now asking concrete questions to which they will explain that they would never report to the chairman again. Are there any other questions you would possibly ask in the possibility that it might answer by the chairman and the minister? There isn't. I have one question. Who here is clear to explain to us and to be clear? 75 If you want to officially get into the stenogram you need to get out, but right now I would ask you to take this work seriously. I think it's very important that we get information that can give us a statement. Please, the chairman of Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency, Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1911	Gentlemen, I just want to try to help now, since Mr. Domazet is about to repeat, and I said what the motive was for me coming out, and without any ambition to go into the debate about the law. The question has been raised, I wanted to inform you that the presidency has responded. I read it in the press on Saturday, suggested it, put it on the agenda. The Council of Ministers, Mr. Domazet, has given us information. Put in the agenda and debated and found that in relation to the contract, or the conflict agreement where it was 645 or 655, I mean 645 million, at this point in the account of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, there is not so much, but there are 50, as much as Anto? 56. And we're looking for information on what it is? Ratified, the House of Peoples, the Presidency, and it was explained to us that on several requests from permanent committees, the committees did not receive any information. As the Presidency, we concluded the following - I told you that we are urgently asking the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for a statement by the Government of the Signatory States of the Agreement first why did they not ratify the Agreement? Second, what about the funds? We ask the government of Yugoslavia, the government of Yugoslavia, what about the funds? That through the High Representative and experts who guaranteed then and determined the amount which was the subject of the Agreement we also intervened. Did you give instructions to our people who, our conclusions we'll give to our people who go 18 on the Standing Committee to open that question down there and finally say, if it did happen, and probably did, at least that's what I think. What does it mean when there's no money and there's no money. Did someone spend it, didn't eat it for sure, but spent it. So let's suggest, or we ask in that case to make up for the equivalent, to compensate. And I finally said the following -- not having the ambition to go into the debate about the law, I said that the amount that's up in the National Bank of Yugoslavia is not in direct application of this law. It is indicated, but it is not immediately prontoly deployed, and that is what I realized is in Article 3(1). That's my opinion. Doesn't have to mean I'm right. I was just talking about the difference in money by contract and agreement and the situation in Belgrade, and I said the presidency supported the Council of Ministers' intention to sell gold. Of course I agree with Mr. Tokić that it means nothing from the viewpoint of the House of Peoples, but I have told the truth for the sake of knowing that we supported the Council of Ministers' action in turning gold into money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1912	76 I thank you. I think we're getting all relevant information. I would ask further Mr. Domazet to answer the questions that have been asked here and then bring this debate to an end at this stage. I think we have enough elements to do. We only plead to the procedure. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1913	Look. Article 5 Anexa c of the Succession Agreement envisioned the division of the following assets in the National Bank of Yugoslavia. Montero gold 271 UNCs. As the price of gold goes up, it has a different value. Let's say it's about 80 million dollars now. Foreign exchange accounts held in foreign commercial banks estimated at $307 million. Foreign foreign exchange accounts held by Yugoslav banks with a total investment estimated at $645m. And the gold of some small amount of about $340,000. All these gentlemen exist, except for 590 million in foreign exchange accounts held by Yugoslav banks with joint investment that were estimated at 645 million. There's 56 million of them. That's what the National Bank data says that we are now presenting a virtually vague situation. These three other items stand. Therefore, this property is unquestionable. Now let me tell you. The division of assets under this annex c. can be carried out when all countries ratify the Succession Agreement and when the Agreement is submitted to the Deponential, and that is the UN Secretary-General 30 days after that, this property can be divided into followers according to the key adopted and this is for Bosnia 15.5%. So we calculated 130 million dollars on that key. So excluding these 590 that are questionable, and relying on that non-questionable asset. But which may be available after the ratification of the Agreement is carried out and after the Agreement is deposited with the Secretary-General. That is why we have said in this agreement that will be available when these conditions are met in this law. So it could be in six months, it could be if it's a 20-year stretch. I can say that the conflict agreement is as economic, even more political act, it contributes to stability in the region and all countries have to accept it. So far, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Macedonia have ratified. Yugoslavia could be in this month, it is in the final stage, and Slovenia and Croatia are seeking to clarify this information because they were late in their procedure, but surely the Agreement will be verified beyond any doubt. So that's the essence of this condition. I don't know now, Mr. Jusufović, that he pours the situation as clearly as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1914	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1915	To answer these two questions, Mr. Špirić. 77 We believe that Rebalans is a commitment for Parliament, the Council and all others. So, due to the failure to meet the source of revenues under the rebalancing process, among other things, the failure to adopt the law on succession of 21.6 million reduced BiH institutions' incomes as obligations in 2002. You can wave my head too, Mr Špirić, but you have all these actions that we have done verified, configured to say that the Rebalance of the budget has been adopted and that all of this has cost and revenue from the surplus and expenditure, and what other logic you expected from the Council of Ministers than that it has been accepted in Parliament and that we are operationally doing and that is to prepare for the realization. Your second question concerns the problem of credit relations. The credit relationship of gentlemen was not a proposal from the Council of Ministers, but was a proposal which Mr Banjac, in the form of an amendment, proposed and adopted by the House of Representatives and as such was further presented to the House of Peoples. I never said it was agreed at the level of the entity governments to be a credit relationship. Never. The credit relationship was proposed and included in the final text adopted by Mr Banjac during the debate on 30 November 2001. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1916	I'm thanking you. He would only ask the minister to remember all his discussions and not interpret the retroactive budget rebalancing differently from his interpretation that exists in the stenogram, while asking us to focus on the debate. It's obvious there's a lot of clarity here, and I think all MPs have conditions to plead for the procedure. All the other questions will be time to plead, and I think there's a lot that's been said here. I'd like to ask you, given that we have a long debate or a replica or a debate. First comes the replica of Mr Špirić, then, because he called for a replica in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1917	I'll, of course, take a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, it's good for the minister to give these arguments and then, they just have to take care of what he says half an hour ago, and what he said now, and not to say that he has to take care of the discussion that Mr. Tokić warned about when the budget Rebalance was adopted. Okay. Anyway, I have to warn him that I didn't vote in favour of either the conflict law or the budget rebalancing, knowing exactly the difference between me and a little bit of others what this is and my profession. And I was absolutely right when I just... Mr. Minister in Article 3. You said that now, here at this point is a disputed 70% of the funds. Because if you have a sumption, if it's 560 million, and you take 307 million, 90 million, and 340 thousand, you say no to 500 that's controversial, then it's 70 percent of the funds that you have in law divided 65-35. How incorrect? You said they don't exist now. They'll be subject to trial by these or those. What do we need in the law if it's established? 78 Second thing. This is exactly where it was said. Here's a colleague to tell me. I asked Mr. and Lagumdžija – who is and where did he set up the credit relationship? He says it was an agreement at an inter-entity level, etc. that in the end it may be established, and how much you appreciate Banjac. You may think that the Council of Ministers has given up its position and adopted Banjce's position by estimating Banjac and his stance.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1918	Please, Mr. Špirić, I really need to start holding
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1919	It's real. Please, I'm sorry, but here's the thing. It is clear today that the delegates were convinced that there is an agreement and an agreement, and there is no agreement, because that is what Mr. Minister said and that is one of the key problems. In order to end up, and you know that here it was that the delegates from Republika Srpska were placed in the walls of shame, they reject something that was agreed upon. I ask them if there is an agreement and therefore I ask you when you meet and arrange and when Bosnia and Herzegovina instead of having its own structures of government invented structures that can be agreed on, a class at Mrakovica, a class in Sarajevo, then at least inform us with signatures. But you know it'll stay for analysis. If someone made a deal, it doesn't mean anything to me until I see the paper. You know what it means in Parliament, believe me. Parliament is discussing... the documents.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1920	Mr. Špirić is running out of time for your replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1921	Here I go. Thank you very much. I don't think so, I'm not convinced of the emergency phase. So we're talking about procedure. I won't vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1922	Thank you. I really think there's a lot of reasons he might be talking about this problem, but we've exhausted the level we need to plead out. I'm not stopping the discussion, Mr. Džaferović. I ask you to approach the plea and Mr. Genjac. I remind you there are other forms, press conferences all that are unclear.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1923	I'm not even glad I'm here. I don't know which way I'm going to go out on this thing for a pay phone. So I'm not happy and there's no need for any press conferences, I'm a delegate and I want to find out the facts here. So I'm just going to say this for a little while. There are a few indisputable things here, at least that's how I could conclude from everything I've heard and there's one questionable thing. It is nesporan that the Succession Agreement is wider than this 79 laws and that this law is only part of that agreement and that it withdraws only part of the funds under that agreement. So it's an indisputable thing. It is indisputable that this law contains two types of means. In point (b) of Article 1(1), point (b) is replaced by the following: In point 2. 130 million, in position 2. 151 million. It is also indisputable that Yugoslavia has already spent $590m from the total grant funds to date. For me, it's a controversial thing, I'm a delegate, and I have to decide today on a procedure relating to 1. 130 million grant funds and below 2. 151 million from the grant funds. That's what I'm interested in. I'm interested in whether these funds are available, available to Bosnia and Herzegovina at the moment? Do these 130 million or 151 million enter those 590 spent by Yugoslavia, i.e. when the conditions for Bosnia and Herzegovina to have these funds are met, will Bosnia and Herzegovina be able to immediately achieve these 130-million-dollar funds, respectively? My question is clear. I need to know the answer to that question in order to be able as a delegate to give my vote for or against this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1924	Yeah, I'll give you my word at the end. Please, we'll conclude the debate after the Minister's explanations we've heard on several occasions. I really feel like I'm repeating claims and questions. I'm interested in who answered all the words before the Minister's address. The minister will answer the question you asked clearly in his own way. And last time he answered. Did Mr. Rodić ask for a word? Yes, Mr. Rodić, then Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1925	Mr. Chairman, members of the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of Parliament. I'm not going to get into such a wide discussion about this and I think everything here we've heard is useful so we can decide. But here I am just going to go back to two things that may have come out today. Remember the first time we discussed this law and there were certain amendments and certain remarks, and one of them was parliamentary control. At that time, the apriori were rejected and it had just entered through a certain variant, certain reports, and submissions. 80 What would happen if we had passed a law like this? Would we today have such a comprehensive discussion and about these means of succession? I only have two questions. Are certain actions done without this law although certain legal solutions exist that the law has been passed? So who authorized anyone to take certain actions without this law? That's what I think, and I want to get it over with. I was today coming to this session of the Assembly thinking that we should finish this and go into certain procedures that would allow us to have one of these laws. After this, and I think my colleagues agree with me, it's very difficult to be a judge after all these arguments that we've heard, and by respecting everything that the Bureau member said and a respected minister of the vault. For that reason, I don't think we're losing anything just now to get into a comprehensive discussion with all the facts and come up with a quality legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1926	Thank you. The word is from Genjac, and the debate is exhausted, and we have more explanations from Mr. Domazet.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1927	I'm only reporting for reasons not to answer the question. I think there's a need for clarification. I'll tell you what. In paragraphs 130 million and 150 million and some million treated by this law, did the figure of 540 expendables enter into one of these figures and are the figures spent for why? Is it or isn't it? And the second question is, what changed in the meantime? It is not responsible for the Council of Ministers to give up the most urgent procedure and agree to a semi-sport or semi-emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1928	Okay. I think in my own way the answers are given, but here's another Mr. Domazet and I ask you to distinguish dissatisfaction or satisfaction from the answers. Here you are, sir, the Honorable Minister of Domazet.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1929	Thank you very much. The answer to your question is no. It's not in that $590 million number. So that 590 million dollar number is the number we've completely put aside and we're looking for information. All the lands of the followers are searching for information. Maybe 81 will look absurd to you. But the current people's bank of Yugoslavia is also looking for information about what the Yugoslav People's Bank has done with the money. Yeah. No, the 590 million that are considered spent. All the lands of the followers are looking for these means. The funds are entirely on the side and 130 million refers to the funds now available at the National Bank of Yugoslavia. Both Bosnia and Herzegovina, it's about $440m, 15.5% something.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1930	Available at the National Bank of Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1931	The National Bank of Yugoslavia. Available, of which 56 million are in the accounts of mixed banks abroad, there are 56 million instead.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1932	Thank you very much. Please don't deny it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1933	there are therefore in real form. There are also you have seen that we have said nicely in Article 3 that these are the funds that will be put at the disposal of Bosnia and Herzegovina after the completion of the Annex.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1934	Apparently everyone has their own vision of availability. Please answer another question as to what motivated the Council of Ministers to do now, following a brief procedure, there were several questions, following a shortened procedure compared to an earlier emergency procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1935	Listen. As far as the Council of Ministers is concerned, we think this was supposed to be adopted yesterday because of what all the problems are on Wednesday. The problems of having a budget deficit for BiH institutions, having unsettled consumption in entities and having a delay in implementing some development programmes that could already be realised from these funds. So in that sense, I want to say that everything from a range of very urgent to urgent is an option, but you need to be reasonable, here's that argument. I'm just gonna use this phone booth to say next. This lost funds, this information, in fact, now that there are no 590 million, has somehow begun to be given by the National Bank, and we received information at the last meeting that 25 million dollars and 25 million marks, respectively. around 80, 75 million marks spent on humanitarian purposes under the Council resolution, the Security Council of 90 and some years.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1936	82 I would ask you not to explain.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1937	Let me just get this straight. We must not consider those funds lost. In the process of implementing the Agreement, it will have to be compensated in some other way through diplomatic consular property or other property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1938	Thank you. I think you understand as clearly as you could from these exhibits. I do not think it is possible for further discussion to clarify these issues, and I would argue if there were no more debates to approach a statement on the procedure, and whether it would be room for these issues to be clarified in the context of the debate on this law and also in the context of the request for information at home sessions, either individually or from the House. Who is it? So I'm closing the debate. Who is it that this law is considered in accordance with Article 99. Home to the people of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Please raise your hand. You'll have to, sir, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Spahić will only have one choice from those three. Okay. Who's against it? - Four Who's abstentioned? - two I find that in addition to 8 for, 4 against and 2 abstentions and 1 non-access to vote, which is also the right of business of this procedure to obtain the necessary majority, but did not receive the entity, it is obvious that the procedure of this examination of this law is going to be agreed in the College of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly within 3 days. Next item is Ad. Nine. The law on the Red Cross/Cross of Bosnia and Herzegovina is proposed by the Council of Ministers. We have a first reading. First we have a debate on the necessity and principles on which the bill is based. Does the promoter need someone to further explain or step forward about this law? No, I don't. Are any of the envoys, delegates reporting for debate in the first reading? So on the principles and necessity of the adoption of this law. No, I don't. Excuse me, please. He answered the word Mr. Nikola Špirić. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1939	... This law in the procedure long had been conducted by a heated debate concerning the Law on the Society of the Red Cross/Cross of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that, according to my information, a high degree of agreement was reached between the organisations involved in this work and I think the principles on which the law rests are well-conceived, that they satisfy all those involved in this area and that it would be good today because we have the next item of the agenda of the Law on the Protection of the Red Cross or the Red Cross Sign in the second reading, if there is a political mood to join the first and second reading and to declare today the definitive text of this law. So that would be my suggestion. I think it's a well-organized legal matter and it would be good to adopt this law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1940	I thank Mr. Špirić. Of course, I highly respect this approach that since all deadlines have passed, the amendment is that if we adopt in the first reading we go to the second reading, but we must first finish the debate after the first reading. No Niko ever answers the question of principles and necessity anymore. I'm closing the debate. Who is it to adopt the law in the first reading? All 15 envoys, the delegates have adopted the Law on the Red Cross/Brussels Society of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the proposal of the Council of Ministers in the first reading. He would ask you if there was an agreement for all procedures were completed to join in the second reading. You've received a report from the committee responsible. One amendment has been tabled. Is there any need for the commission to come forward? You have written materials. There isn't. We're accessing the procedure as planned. We have one amendment. Mr. Novaković's amendments. We have amendments that were adopted on the committee. They're not the subject of a plea. Yes, it is. We should be in line with our conclusion already inside. In this context, we have four more amendments to Mr. Novaković. Does Mr. Novaković need to explain his total amendments before his statement? There isn't. Who is to adopt the amendment and Mr. Novaković? - Five Who's Against? - nine One abstention. The amendment didn't get the required majority. amandman II. Who is for the adoption of this amendment? - Five-four-four-four, who's against it? - 9 Who's abstentioned? - One amandman III Who's in? - five who's against it? - 9 Who's abstentioned? – one Amendment IV to Mr. Novaković Who's in favour? - Five Who's Against? - 9 Who's abstentioned? – one as far as I know the text of the law and in the text without amendments adopted at the House of Representatives. We can approach the Declaration of the Law on the Society of the Red Cross/Cross in the text as you get, how you have with those amendments that have been installed already by the Commission. Who's for the adoption of this law? - 14 Who's against it? - No one who's restrained? With 14 votes for and 1 abstention, I find that this law has been passed. I received information from the secretary that this law in identical text was adopted in the House of Representatives so that there is no need to form a committee for reconciliation. Thank you. Ad. Ten. The proposal for a law on the use and protection of the Red Cross/Cross, the pardon for the use and protection of the Red Cross/Cross sign and the name of the Red Cross/Cross/Cross of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is in the second reading. There was no amendment. You've received a report from the committee responsible. I think they did, unless there was anyone to answer for the debate. There isn't. I think the terms of this bill have been met. Who is the Red Cross/Cross Society/Cross of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the adoption of the Bill of Law on the Use and Protection of the Red Cross Sign/Cross of the Red Cross Society? Proposer of the Council of Ministers. All 15 members, delegates, voted in favour of this law unanimously, and I find that he was adopted into the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. He would ask the secretary for information on whether, the secretary does not know whether this law in the same text was agreed in the House of Representatives. I suggest we take the opportunity and still appoint a commission so we don't stop the procedure. 85 Does Dom accept this. Please, for possible alignment unless it is in identical text adopted in the House of Representatives. Okay. I suggest that during the work of this distinguished high home, the secretary obtain this information so that our high home can act on the basis of timely information and form or not a commission. Ad. 11. The law amending and supplementing the Bosnia and Herzegovina Central Bank Act is proposed by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency. We have a first reading. First we have a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. Does the promoter, on behalf of the Presidency, have a need? No one needs to explain further. The law amending and supplementing the Central Bank Act, you got the materials. So we are having a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. I'm opening a hearing for the envoys. Who's answering for a word? About Central Bank, first reading. Here's the chairman of the Bureau, please, we have the law here, we have the first reading, there are amendments, and I don't think there's any conditions for a statement in the second reading yet, no amendments have been considered versatilely. First he answered the word Špirić, no one else is going, because no one has answered Mr Špirić. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1941	Ladies and gentlemen. I think it is important legal matter and I think what the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina has done, perhaps it is the area where the biggest progress has been made in Bosnia and Herzegovina and perhaps this is the opportunity to discuss amendments and additions to the Central Bank Act to say so. I'm saying that maybe the concept of a broader change to the Central Bank Act, maybe this and the moment in this situation is not the best solution. I think that earlier, given that the Central Bank is very quick to come out of the principle of the withdrawal board, which is not irrelevant to Bosnia and Herzegovina and that we should have a decadent response before such a radical change, or a decadent agreement in Bosnia and Herzegovina whether the principle of the carinsi board remains, whether it is being extended or whether it will be a new concept. There are, of course, principles in these amendments indicated by changes that I could not agree with. I think what we should have done at this point is that the technical corrections of the law in terms of replacing the German EURo mark, but I think that everything that comes into fundamental change is not good without one, I would say well-implemented and well-founded discussions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here, of course, I think my proposal would be to the Proposer, therefore appreciating everything that the Central 86 Bank has done to try to go only to technical law-making what is necessary and what has to be done, and all that is in the part of the political compromise and economic analysis to be the subject of perhaps a broader debate in June, since the bank comes out of the principle of the carinsi board. I want to make it clear that the way in which the figure and appearance of the banknote in Bosnia and Herzegovina is defined creates both economic costs and unfortunately seems to me in one for Bosnia and Herzegovina's important political moment to open up other political dilemmas that are not useful at the moment. There is no one in Bosnia and Herzegovina who willingly did not accept the figure and the equivalent of the bills that are in circulation. These solutions are not resistant, and I see no reason to go through this law to try to change, because I have to tell you that every printing of bills with another character and looks like economic work, especially economic business, and I am against it, whether it's an international company or a domestic company on the torture of citizens, if there are no serious economic reasons. So making a single bill with a changed character at a time when no political compromise has been reached, unfortunately, I am afraid to nail both economic and good solutions. It is not good to seek the passage of some legal solution in the presidency, so keep it in parliamentary procedure for a year, so that the parliamentary procedure does not come out so quickly. That's not good, and it's especially not good that it costs. I don't think anyone's going to interpret it one way or another. I think it's the Central Bank, if there's a value of everything that's been done, it's pulled out of a wild political debate. I'm afraid the changes offered in this law will bring us back to these discussions. And that's why I think it would be good to give up these principles of root change and go into technical changes until this level of consent is achieved and the status is clear, that is, the principle. Is the principle of the karensi board the principle of the next five years or not? If it's not what it means for Bosnia and Herzegovina, if it is what it means. And it must be serious analysis and serious debate. It seems to me that the largest number of MPs and delegates are not at the professional level of competence to make their own decision without broadly learned and professional debates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1942	I'm thanking you. Mr. Novaković picked up the phone. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1943	The Honorable President of the Presidency, fellow delegates, note that I absolutely agree with Mr Špirić's explanation when it comes to Article 42(1) of the Law. I would also like to point out that Article 6 of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law and Article 11 is directly affecting the principles on which the Central Bank has so far functioned and that this increase in monetary passport on its part can lead to the destabilising of the domestic currency. That is why I did not gain confidence from the reasons and in the work of the commission, etc. That's impossible. So before we give up our current principler and tie up the potential by giving up and binding our EUR 87 bill, that possibility becomes even more likely. As a result, I do not think that it was necessary to touch on this principle either, or to retain the principle that is at this point until it has decided on some other issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1944	Thank you. I didn't see anyone answer, did Mr. Džaferović. I would use to welcome this session to Piter nikol, governor of the Central Bank, and if there is any need or desire of the distinguished Mr. Petar Nikola, may be involved in the debate, and I remind you this is the first reading, so we are talking about principles and there will be another debate in the House of Peoples when it comes to the amendments directly. Excuse me, Mr. Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1945	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been subject to a very serious analysis in the Commission for the Administrative Financial Commission of this House, which is in charge of dealing with laws containing this issue. The original text of the law to Mr Novaković, Rodić and Špirić were treated equally by members of the Commission with full participation by representatives of the Central Bank of BiH. All the amendments tabled on this text of the law were the subject of the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina's obviousness and I can tell you that what the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina considered to be a well-established and competent commission of this home that you have in your report. I apologize to my colleague and the President of the Commission to Mr Ivanković, I speak as a delegate, but I am also a deputy president of the Commission, so if he has needs, here. So I don't file a report from the Commission, I'm just talking about one road that we've come to today in the first reading phase of this law and everything that's been going on in the work of the competent parliamentary working body under this law. So, the text, the original text of the law and the report of the committee responsible has also treated amendments and what exists in the report is fully in line with the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina. What I want to say as a delegate is that I cannot accept it and it is not accepted on the Commission, let's say that a provision which is set out in the two amendments tabled is introduced in the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1946	Mr. Džaferović, I would ask you to read it first. We'll also have a debate on the commission, so we're only talking about the principle of necessity. If you think that's important, but you'd like that at this stage. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1947	I can also cut Mr. Chairman short. So I consider that.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1948	We'll have a discussion about the Amandas.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1949	So I believe that the law is based on principles that are based on the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that the law is based on positive trends related to the development of this area in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I support the text of the law in the first reading in content as it arrived from the Central Bank with amendments accepted by the committee in charge. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1950	I'm thanking you. I think so. Replica Mr. Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1951	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as I know, the commission has completed only the first stage for the existence of a constitutional basis and I am a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and I think it is an amendment. I don't know if the amendments were made at the Central Bank and there's a feedback. I'd like us to discuss the principles today and I'm asking the promoter if it's the Central Bank to come to the law. This is the best way to get to the law. So I'm asking you to take care of the principles. It won't be. See, the thing is, it's not gonna be good if there are amendments that come across in the first reading... if they don't go through one in the other reading. The possibility of the law being passed will be narrowed down. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1952	Please, Mr. Špirić, please, all envoys, throw out the word amendment when you discuss it in your first reading. I don't know what you need, if you are told ten times that there will be a second reading, a statement on the amendment, that the committee responsible has declared itself, not only the Constitutional and Legal Commission, etc. In the principles and necessaryness of the adoption of this law, I have not seen any envoy who had a conflicting view of the need for the adoption of this law and the necessity of the adoption of this law. Belkić, the respected chairman of the presidency, wants to take the floor. And I think there's been a condition for us to come forward in our first reading, and we'll have the opportunity to discuss the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1953	The honourable MPs, or delegates, are the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Clearly, it stands in reason. Of course, the processor to be precise is 89 The Central Bank which has provided us with absolute professional assistance and assistance in establishing this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law. So I'm just going to comment on the proposal of this principle suggestion. I think we can do it, Mr. Špirić. We're not pulling, I mean we can't pull the law. We do not need to withdraw the law, because the main reasons were to adapt the change to the withdrawal, the introduction of the EUR, etc. and of course we also thought that some technical things would come in handy, but we didn't understand, or we didn't expect them to be understood with such a political impact on relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. If the motionary is absolutely ready between the two readings, we can also work, between the two readings, to sit in the presidency all MPs, delegates who have worked on the amendments, let us sit down and we will hold a debate with the presence of the governor and deputy governor of the Central Bank. So together we're speeding up not here to wait for each other. So the presidency is absolutely ready to discuss between the two readings on some offers maybe to fix this text. I'd love to. So, when it comes to first reading at this stage, the Presidency is not ready to withdraw.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1954	I'm thanking you. Mr. Novaković, you're replicating the chairman of the presidency. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1955	First, let me say I'm not going to use the word amendment, I'm going to use the word comment. Certain observations are based, i.e. on the principles on which the Law amending and supplementing the Law was drawn up. So no one disputes the need to pass laws. Please don't. I absolutely agree with Mr. Chairman. I'm replicating here. So don't, not that, the debate in the first reading of the debate is just about whether the law should or should not be passed, but about the principles on which the law is based, or whether it is changing and supplementing the law. Since they've been here several times warned that some of the principles, I've been warned of one principle. Mr. Špirić warned of another principle. These discussions suggest that there is a possibility for this acceleration to accelerate this discussion all the time. There's a possibility there's no other reading, gentlemen. Is that understood or not? So there's a real possibility that we can't get to another reading because some of the principles that are built in here can't be supported. That's why I'm asking you, or I'm asking for a 15-minute break first, and I'm asking for that break to be used to see what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1956	90 Let's just get something straight. The principles and principles of opportunity mean to you whether laws can be passed at all. If principles and principles are rejected, it means that there is no basis for law in that law. So here it's quite clear, it's whether or not to accept the law. The principles cannot be changed in the parliamentary procedure, but a debate is being held with an argument whether the principles on which the law is based are good or not. The Honorable Governor of the Central Bank, Piter nikol, came forward. I suggest, if you don't mind, before we take a break that we will certainly use for further clarifications, we give the word to the Governor of Central Bank Mr. Piter Nikol. Here you go, Mr. Nikol. ______________________: I apologize if you need a translation? It needs a stenogram and everything. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1958	Thank you very much for giving me the honor of speaking to you. Since the very beginning of work of the Central Bank of 97, these are the first amendments to the Central Bank Act, so I think this is a clear sign that the 97th passed a very good law and most of the changes that we are looking for are changes in the technical nature, or possibly ousting some points that are no longer relevant. But the amendments to our amendments are usually two things when it says that it is not exclusively about amendments of technical nature. There are two points, i.e. two comments, which affect business policy, and therefore, in full agreement with them when discussions are being held that we should focus on whether these proposed changes are in line with the principle of the karen board. Is there at all any risk that these amendments might endanger the carins of the board's work? I think the most important principle is to protect the rents of the board of arrangements at all costs. But in my opinion, any proposed changes, and in particular Article 6 will essentially protect the carins of the board. Although Article 6 sounds quite simple he is essentially very important because he represents the protection of the carinsi board arrangement. Mr. Chairman, that's the most important thing I've ever wanted to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1959	Thank you. I'm taking a break from 30 minutes, half an hour. Please return exactly on time to your esteemed MPs, envoys, delegate chairs and benches. [[/pause 30 minutes.]] But I expect that break 91 has been used for consultations that will help to bring this point to an end in a good and efficient way. So I remind you, we are at point 11, please we are at point 11 of the session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly and we are discussing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Central Bank Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is proposed by the Presidency. We listened to Mr. Belkic's chairmanship. We also heard the esteemed governor of Pitera Nikola's Central Bank. This is the first reading, so this is not definitely a statement of the law. We have also heard the willingness to mix the first and second readings of consultations and conversations in this inter-periode, which may contribute to better conditions for making known the amendments that have already been submitted. The debate was in principle concluded and a break was requested, but we did not formally conclude it so that if someone has a desire to report especially those who asked for a break can certainly give a word. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1960	Ladies and gentlemen, estimating the importance of this law I, of course, what we can, which is good in the parliamentary procedure is to try to create an atmosphere to make the law accepted. We're the last time, remember you were right when we asked for a break and that break came today that we passed two laws. So, I have information that tomorrow at Banja Luka is meeting the Presidency and will discuss this particular problem, this problem. It would be good if, with the Central Bank with the esteemed Governor Nikola, the finance ministers were to sit down and these principles that are disputed for someone were not re-analysed so that we could make a positive statement about the law. I'm afraid if we make a strict business statement today, strictly business so that we can get into a situation where the first-reading law doesn't go through and we'll have to do it again. So my proposal is one time frame to come up with a little more discussion with a proposal that could go to another reading. So I'm just asking if there's that possibility. So I'm not clear either, either, that we don't plead today, because it's not good for the law. If we plead today, I'm afraid we'll be in a situation that's not on the line of adoption of the law. That's the way it is. So I'm asking you to say that we've finished the debate, finished the debate, and that we can make a statement about the plea and release of the law into the second reading after tomorrow's session of the Presidency in Banja Luka that will discuss this. That would be our contribution to passing the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1961	I thank Mr Špirić with all due respect for his motivation and his desire to resolve this issue, I would like to remind myself that there is no strict adherence to the Rules of Procedure or loosely, but work on the Rules of Procedure or work that is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. 92 The business opportunity will be quite clear only to interrupt the House of Peoples session and continue later. There is no possibility of prolonging, a statement on the agenda point that is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure required, and I would remind you, please, that the fate of this law is nevertheless at the end of the second reading so that I do not see the excessive possibility that at this point of the agenda now, by interrupting the session, something can be obtained. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1962	I can't agree with the chairman that we can't end this point differently than he said. In fact, Article 90 in point 3 says – The House can ask the Commission to draw up a new report based on new facts within 15 days. Here, Mr. Špirić presented new facts that may appear after tomorrow's meeting. So there should be a good will here, gentlemen, to apply only this member and who has the problem, and we have solved the problem. Of course there's the other side that doesn't have that good will and then we end up like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1963	I would like to thank you, but I would remind you that all phases and amendments are ploughing and that the Commission and the amendments have been declared, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So that phase is over. I really don't see any business opportunities to do anything else at this point but to make a statement about the law in the first reading. But I'm interested in what new facts have been made.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1964	Can I explain the new facts? Ladies and gentlemen, I have made a proposal that we believe the debate is over, and that the plea with the aim of reaching the law in accordance with the Rules of Procedure is extended. Look what's going on. If there is no goodwill, this part of the Rules of Procedure can be applied if most people think. But what I'm proposing is that we get to the law. It is possible, of course, that it is a delegation of MPs that the law does not... into another reading, if principles challenge. So why there's first and second reading. But if we get the principles in line then, and why are we running away from having a law in 15 days or if we insist on pleading against it, then we can plead whoever wants to, but the mood knows that the law doesn't exist in two months. So please, I insist if there's a mood, if I don't ask you to approach the vote. And to me, we have no reason to especially insist on something, if others won't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1965	93 Thank you. I'm just reminding you, there's no possibility of changing the principle. You understand. Please read the Rules of Procedure carefully. The principles and justification of the law can be rejected or accepted. Any adoption of the amendment is phase two and there is no other option. I beg you gentlemen don't talk about goodwill now or not goodwill. You have your position, there are other points of view, and then here we plead. And you can't say now that those who won't accept your views have no good will. I really don't support it, Mr. Špirić, that's the way to talk. That's a little bit like you'd say blackmailingly. Here you go. The debate is over, sir. I'm putting this to a vote. What. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1966	Wait a minute. [[speaks from place]] I'd like to beg the secretary's interpretation. Can we ask to make a statement as per Article 90(3), that the House declares itself?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1967	Mr. Novaković, first of all, would you please take a nice sit down and answer the word first and go out there and interpret the Rules of Procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for which I ask you to read it not given by the secretary, but by the College. That would beg you to. Are you looking for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1968	I ask the College to give an interpretation of whether we can insist on voting whether Dom will comply with Article 90(3). Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1969	In the College, there is no agreement that there are new details of the moments the principles at which an additional report would be sought and I ask that the House declare itself. In this context, I call, since the debate on principles and principles is over, and all the amendments are over, but we will not plead in the second reading, we leave room for consultations, opinions to be found, and that other relevant factors besides the amendment promoters show their position on the second reading to make a statement. Who is it that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Central Bank Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina is held to discuss members of the Law? Please, who's in? In the first reading, who's in favor of the law? Who's against it? I find that the law in the first reading received the necessary majority, did not get the entity majority. He's going to the House of the People's College. 94
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1970	I'm asking that the alignment be carried out immediately.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1971	The agreement will be conducted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure at the first next session of the College, scheduled Monday at 3am.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1972	I ask you to apply the Rules of Procedure. Read what it says in the Rules of Procedure. He can do it now, and he can do it within three days. I insist right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1973	It's already scheduled and there's no reason for Mr. Špirić to make an exception, because we have agreed with all other laws that this alignment will be on Monday at three o'clock and it's not that far away, especially if there is a willingness to comply with this law. Moving to point Ad. 12. Bosnia and Herzegovina's accession to the Council of Europe, a report on the work of a delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Council of Europe for June-January 2001-2002. Opinion of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the request of Bosnia and Herzegovina for membership in the Council of Europe in 234 2002 adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on 22 January 2002. You also got as informative material that we didn't give up for adoption, but we left room that if there were any other ideas, initiatives to supplement it. It is a material of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' operational plan to implement the post-accession commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm opening a debate on this point. We've had many conversations about the Council of Europe, about these obligations. I don't think we need any special openings. If from the envoys, the delegate thinks I should be willing to submit on behalf of the delegation additional information or give answers to the questions you ask. I just want to get to know you that this report has been agreed among the members of the parliamentary delegation at the Council of Europe. Mr Spahić answered the word. Here you go. 95
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1974	Madam Chairman, colleagues would just like to draw attention to our obligations regarding the House of Peoples, or the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and who are represented here in some way through the work of the executive bodies of this Parliament, are in the Council of Ministers and different ministries related to the Council of Ministers. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that there are three primary conditions that Bosnia and Herzegovina should have after its entry in April, which will be quite certain according to all these indications that have been given so far in connection with the list of commitments adopted by BiH on the basis of full admission to the Council of Europe and the division of the job carriers and according to the latest report by the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers on the road to Bosnia and Herzegovina these days. What is important for Bosnia and Herzegovina seems to me to point out these documents that we are discussing: - we have here some short-term, long-term care jobs, mainly within six months, years, two or three years. What I think is important is that here we should express one political interest that certain actions are being carried out before this is foreseen, for example. on this signed list of obligations, such as the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, the transfer of the process to criminal matters and the confiscation of victims, the crimes of violence that has only been envisaged two years after the entry into the Council of Europe. I only gave this as an illustration because there are, of course, certain standards in Bosnia and Herzegovina and standards in Europe that will be important for our further engagement in the development of Bosnia and Herzegovina's position and role in the Council of Europe and, of course, in the context of the European Union accession process. The second note I would like to make on this agenda today is about the fact that here in this document (no) indicates that Bosnia and Herzegovina should organise a year after its entry into the Council of Europe to resolve issues that are well known for the elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina and this electoral legislation in the world of Council of Europe standards and in this context to make the necessary changes. I would like to say that we are well aware that the changes that will take place following the implementation of the Constitutional Court decisions, I hope, finally, at the end of this month or the beginning of next month, to enter directly into the electoral legislation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in this regard, I believe that it is another area on which we could make greater efforts than it would be to wait another year, experience after the elections in October of this year. And the third thing I'd like to point out is that it's about very clear definitions in the month that we're in in March. It's always been in a country called a big one, on which a good part of the study is based these lawyers know it, I've been dealing with Roman law lately. There is one obligation that, in March of the month in March, usually means for countries of this kind, structures of government at the state level always a good opportunity to read a little history, like the Roman Empire of trigionate etc. Why am I pointing this out? Because a political general agreement has been reached today 96, but it is practically still not in place when it comes to decisions of the Constitutional Court, the implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Court at the level of entities, their constitutions and changes. I would like simply for this item of the agenda to plead that this job is really tried from the point of view of the position of both the House of Peoples and the Assembly and the Council of Ministers, but, of course, both the entity parliaments end as scheduled by the end of this month and the beginning of next month. And finally the third thing that I think is very important is that in addition to the political declarations related to the International Tribunal for Crimes in the former Yugoslavia, it seems to me that here is one of the few points on the list of priorities and Ida, that is after the Dayton Peace Agreement the first practical, the first obligation is one very clear definition that this is a job without delay. Of course, it is said here that this should have been done in relation to persons involved in the execution of war crimes suspects, crimes against humanity and genocide, without delaying active co-operation with both entities. Why did I read the whole part of the point I.I.? Because here it is defined what it is, what is the subject of the work of the state authorities and these lower bodies of entities and their obligation to cooperate actively without delay on the realization of this task. Because in the definitions signed by all the most responsible officials of Bosnia and Herzegovina together with representatives of the Council of Europe and accepting obligations, a protocol with one such organisation as the Council of Europe, Bosnia and Herzegovina should, in fact, develop a new policy and a new approach that would be fully uniform with regard to the behaviour of all authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina at all levels. Therefore, three key points concerning the Dayton Peace Agreement, the International Tribunal for Crimes in the former Yugoslavia, the implementation of decisions by the Constitutional Court on changes to the constitution in both entities, should be to say the best signal already in March, simply estimating the community's responsibility for what will come after the reception.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1975	Sir, I'd like to ask that, indeed, is something specific. There's no need to convince the opinion all the envoys have received. I really respect that.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1976	Of course, but this is about three accentes from a number of commitments that I consider different to configure the position of Bosnia and Herzegovina, rather than what is defined here in these obligations so that I am sure that our presence in the Council of Europe since April will have a different meaning if we remain behind these three obligations that are focused here in the first member of what we have signed as representatives of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I just wanted to highlight what is the introduction to the big one to say the job that will follow the entry into the Council of Europe, and I would like that at one of the next sessions, 97 is my proposal to get one picture of the people who are in the delegation to the Council of Europe on what all in structural terms means the presence of Bosnia and Herzegovina in different committees at different levels of decision-making, at different levels of participation of Bosnia and Herzegovina as an equal member of the Council of Europe. It would be correct if one of the information that would come after the April session could be obtained before, a very clear scheme of the presence of a country that becomes an equal member with the exact details of how Bosnia and Herzegovina is, therefore, entitled to permanent and permanent places in which committees, where and what position it has in its diplomatic mission. And all that comes from the future status of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Council of Europe. It would be good if this job were done immediately so that months after its entry into the Council of Europe, they would not know who was all engaged in the Council of Europe in working bodies and by law and by the status of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Council of Europe. I think it is one very useful thing for all of us, because this would open different channels of European integration in different domains, from human rights to political issues of culture and intergovernmental cooperation. So I think that this paper, the document needs to be prepared and I call on the delegation to, in cooperation with the Secretariat, the General Council of Europe to prepare Bosnia and Herzegovina, so the MPs, since we are entering the Council of Europe, the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this is a member of this legislative body, would be correct to be informed immediately about the structure of the bodies and bodies operating in the Council of Europe and about where we receive a legitimate commitment that our people must represent the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina and how these groups will be formulated. That's my suggestion. What I would like to say is that I hope that at the next session we will have the opportunity to see it and that in April we will have the opportunity to celebrate the entry into the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1977	I thank you for this useful suggestion that we can certainly implement with the Secretariat, Secretary General of the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe, as you know, has offered support, assistance to all the envoys, and I think that one such programme should certainly be done. Thanks, I didn't realize they were accentes, but later I realized it was accentes and I thank you for the accentes. Does he still want to take part in the debate? Mr. Genjac and after that, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1978	Dear colleagues and colleagues today we have two documents in front of us report on the work of the delegation and the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Council of Europe in June 2001 – January 2002 and we have the opinion of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for membership in the Council of Europe. I don't know how it's supposed to be, we'll probably accept this report or not accept it. 98 I must at first say that I cannot accept this report for several reasons. First of all, there is talk of the work of a parliamentary delegation from June 2001 to January 2002. The question is, what about the first six months of 2001? The elections were held within 11 months of the previous year, followed by the Parliamentary Assembly. We've had six months of gray zones. The consequence is that our delegation did not attend for the first time at the Plenary session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I think that question should have been clarified as to why the report was since June. The second question, fundamentally, was that it was also necessary to clarify why the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Council of Europe does not reflect the structure of the Parliamentary Assembly as required by all documents of the Council of Europe. These are two issues of general importance and, of course, in the specific issues of the report itself when the report is read, of course, 7' to 80% of the reports include the presentation of individual participants of plenary sessions and kilometres in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I do not think that putting someone on the Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is a transfer of that exposure so that it can be treated as the work of our delegation. You can accept that. I think that perhaps a more appropriate form should have been chosen when we are at these exhibitions and participants from the Parliamentary Assembly and our delegations, of course, it is seen that a lot of nice words have been said about Bosnia and Herzegovina about the Parliamentary Assembly on current relations and that is very good. It is good that those fine words were presented by members of our delegation and representatives of OHR and participants in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Of course it's good, it's useful for Bosnia and Herzegovina and it's good to hear those nice words. But I think at some point there have been non-critical assessments. I can't understand that criticism again. I can understand it from our delegation, which is quite justified, because our goal is to enter the Council of Europe. I can understand representatives of the international community involved in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because they should justify their engagement and the consequences of their engagement for which they are also responsible. I can understand the representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, because Europe still has Bosnia and Herzegovina on its conscience. The Council of Europe is indeed questioning its credibility with this delay around Bosnia and Herzegovina and these are the words of Mr Teri Dejvis at one of the meetings. However, understanding this incriminatingness in some elements cannot, unfortunately, justify some of the consequences that these non-criticals have. Namely, in all sessions, in all occasions, at all sessions, wherever the election law is discussed, the spectacular result achieved in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been spoken of through unanimous adoptions of the electoral law. This is how members of our delegation performed, so were representatives of the OHR, representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I warned myself at the time that we had to be realistic after all. No electoral law has been passed. Part of the election law was passed. The issues that caused the problems and which were problematicly delayed were one of the circumstances that contributed to the adoption of the electoral law. We have to treat it realistically, really realistically. Why? Because in this way, speaking of the electoral law in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, so speaking in a way that is a spectacular result of the adoption of the Election Law, and not mentioning that part of the electoral law remains open to the most large, 99 most complex issues, we have come to the next situation that in the obligations that Bosnia and Herzegovina should carry out, more readily, is treated as being required by Bosnia and Herzegovina within a year of its admission to adopt and implement constitutional and legislative amendments necessary to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision on the constituent peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina from June 2000. It is known that the elections are scheduled, that they should be held and that they are held in November of this year. It is also known if such a stratification of the constitutionality and harmonisation of the entity's constitution with the Constitutional Court's decision on constitutionality is drawn up and if it is left there within a year, it could therefore be considered that the next elections could be held without the adoption of amendments to the entity's constitution on the constitutionality of the people, or it could be understood that the electoral law in the section which says that where elections are not resolved and held by the rules of 98, which would mean that if amendments to the entity's constitutions elections are not adopted in October of the month in such a way that only the Bosniak and Croats can be presidents of the Federation, and in the Republic of Srspec may continue to be fully composed of one nation or one or two exceptions in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The position of all peoples in the electoral process, etc. has not been cut off. etc. So, with constant emphasis, on euphoric emphasising results by not focusing on the delegation's attention on the need to adopt the amendment and to bring the electoral law into line with these amendments before the elections, we came to the obligation that the Constitutional Court's decision could be agreed one year after the adoption. I think holding elections in October of the month, without adopting amendments to the entity's constitution in line with the constitution of the people and without a reflection of these amendments to the election law for Bosnia and Herzegovina would be devastating. Destroying for reasons that would mean the next four years of cementing, discriminatory conditions throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. For this reason, I present this discussion, first of all, to warn this fact and not to accept the report, to further point out the need for constitutional amendments to be adopted before the elections and to bring the electoral legislation into line with the constitutions, or constitutional amendments to the Constitutional Court's decision on constitutionality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1979	I thank Mr. Halid Genjac. Mr. Džaferović's delegate came forward for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1980	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, by supporting everything my predecessor Mr. Genjac spoke of, and not wanting to repeat one thing that has already been said about this matter, I would like to say the following. Bosnia and Herzegovina is committed to Euro-Atlantic integration and the path to Bosnia and Herzegovina's accession to the Council of Europe has its continuity dating back to 92nd when an application for the property of Bosnia and Herzegovina was submitted to the Council of Europe as a special guest. In 94, when this property was accepted, 95 when an application was submitted for 100 permanent membership, 99th, when the ministerial committee requested a report from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on a request from Bosnia and Herzegovina for admission to the Council of Europe. Mr. Vlacer's report, former special rapporteur for the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and a proposal for Bosnia and Herzegovina to be admitted to the Council of Europe as early as January 2000, and of course all these events that followed back about 8 to 10 months. What I want to say for this speaker is that Bosnia and Herzegovina will be accepted into the Council of Europe after the decision of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe with a high degree of probability for it to expect the Committee of Ministers to make such a decision in the next month and a half or two months, but Bosnia and Herzegovina is being admitted to the Council of Europe by my court, above all by our action here in Bosnia and Herzegovina as far as we are prepared and as we are able to meet the post-war conditions set before Bosnia and Herzegovina by the decision of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe will be so much in Europe. I use this item of the agenda and the debate in front of this house to invite all those who have obligations to meet the post-war conditions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to surrender themselves and immediately get to work and start meeting the requirements. It seems to me that some deadlines, although Bosnia and Herzegovina has not been formally received yet, are beginning to run and I fear there will be no difficulty in meeting these post-op conditions. What concerns me at this point, I don't know if anyone in that home is thinking about it right now, is now March 7th. In March, by all rules of material and financial operations, a budget of up to 1.4 at the latest Bosnia and Herzegovina would have to be adopted. Please, who in this home is currently considering the budget and in which the budget is therefore in place. I listed this only as an example, of course, so that all those in charge of the realization of these issues would be moved to sober up and move on, therefore, to comply with these obligations. In this context, as Bosnia and Herzegovina will have to come to the Council of Europe for sure, a permanent delegation of Bosnia and Herzegovina will have to be elected in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I propose that we conclude at this meeting today that we also inform the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to engage in activities in the election of a permanent delegation or at least prepare for the election of a permanent delegation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Don't just ask me to re-make you who voted for such a solution, the beam you made when we chose an earlier delegation, because it is an earlier, or temporary delegation, a delegation that is now functioning it has been chosen beyond the Council of Europe standard, past the standards and acts on which the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is based. All acts on which this body is founded and on which it operates say that the parliamentary delegation of a member state must reflect the structure of parliament must be represented, of course, and the position of the opposition, but of course. With us, the current situation is that the political party to which I belong, the Party of Democratic Action, which received the highest number of votes at the state level and by the number of votes, is the first political party in this parliament, the second by number of votes, the second by number of seats, which is of course absurd, but it is thus not represented in the delegation. If this were to happen during the election and the permanent delegation, it seems to me that 101 would be the first signal of our untrustworthyness to the Council of Europe. I therefore propose today, with this information, of course, that we adopt a conclusion that will initiate the procedure for selecting the permanent delegation of the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in accordance with the standards and havens on which it operates and how it is required of the Council of Europe to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1981	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for word? If no one is answering for the word anymore, I suggest we approach a statement on this information, that is, a report with all the useful suggestions that should be made in accordance with their obligations to the College of the House of Nations, all committees shall monitor the deadlines and any other suggestions that are made here. Who's to adopt these two?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1982	(indistinct speaking from place)
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1983	Your proposal for a conclusion is hypothetical. When the time comes and the procedure is initiated and the procedure can then be made known, any act may not be declared before that. I just don't see any logic that can be said, with me just in the context of the information two things have been said. A delegation that today has been certified by the Parliamentary Assembly by the Council of Europe as a relevant delegation with the structure and opposition and positions and as such accepted. So the second delegation gave a report in the period in which she was elected. Why hasn't a delegation been elected before, we can open a debate, but I don't think we've even opened the topic of today's meeting. So I propose that we adopt this with all the suggestions that have been made and the obligation of the College to take part in a timely manner with its powers and its institutions in the timely implementation of those obligations undertaken by Bosnia and Herzegovina when it is a member of the Council of Europe. It is also not true that one deadline has begun to run, because the deadlines have run since the time when the reception is completed. We are still not a member of the Council of Europe. Can we vote on this conclusion? Who's in? About accepting reports and information. I was thinking at the same time, and we can, because this is information that actually has no procedural form, and there's no need to vote. On the acceptance of information that information has been received on the opinion, the official and all the conditions which have been stated. Who's in? 102 Do you mind? Thank you. Are there any abstentions? - Two abstentions. 11 for and 2 votes abstention. Mr Spahić had to leave officially, so he announced the absence. Moving to point Ad. 13. An Annex on the behaviour of BiH institutions and entities officials towards persons from the so-called "Algerian Group" by the Council of Ministers. Whether Mr. Rasim Kadić has the need as an introductory exposure to give an explanation regarding this information, although you have all received this information in writing and perhaps as far as I can see from the expression of the Honored Deputy Minister, it may be more useful that if there are any questions Mr. Kadić is involved. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1984	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, therefore, the agenda item is the annex on the behaviour of BiH institutions and entities towards persons from the so-called. "Algiers' Groups", the applicant of the Council of Ministers. I got an annex as a delegate. I didn't get any information. I asked, I checked, the others didn't get, some of them I checked in with. I heard there was information in Parliament that she was shared here in the House of Representatives, in the House of Peoples, at least I didn't get that information. Is there information that needs to be shared with us delegates in the House of Peoples? I ask the answer to that question, so I'll get involved in the debate later.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1985	The agenda point is the annex and you've got the annex. If there are requirements for new agenda points, we can put a agenda point. I really don't know what's been shared in the House of Representatives with full motivation and a desire to answer that question I don't know. We've defined the agenda point, adopted the agenda point as Annex. You have information, you have this material, and it's not a discussion of information, it's an annex, because it's wanted. In principle, I must remind you how this part of the agenda has come to an end. There have been several parliamentary issues strictly related to the 'Algerian Group', not the overall fight against terrorism, etc. If this information is requested and the House decides, this information can also be considered, but attention has also been concentrated and motivational on the so-called.The Algerian group, there's information, that's the annex you got as material, and I think we have to argue. If you want new agenda points, we can 103 we conclude that's not the problem. But please don't ask questions about what's been shared in the House of Representatives, because I really don't attend the House of Representatives sessions, and you can certainly ask all other relevant information from the Council of Ministers and from all relevant institutions. But today's agenda has the name he's wearing and I'm putting into debate. Who is reporting for annexes on the conduct of BiH institutions and entities officials towards a person from the so-called"Algerian groups." The Council of Ministers' applicant. I'm opening a discussion. Is there anyone to answer for? Mr. Divković, then Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1986	Mr. President, this will be more a contribution said to the possible discussion of the annex and more familiarity of this home. I attended the meeting of the OSCE Assembly in Vienna ten days ago, where the topic should have been – the realization of the conclusions from Sintra and Paris that referred to other quite issues such as migrations, etc. However, this assembly could not escape clearly from today's topic in the world, the first topic in the world, world politics, it is a fight against terrorism, and I must tell you that for the first time since I have attended these sessions, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the current authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina have been praised just for saying the example of what is called the "Algerian Group" of the "Algerian Group". It was praised by the chairman and secretary general in his exposés. And I think that this is how the public and this Parliament in terms of the report should know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1987	Thank you. Džaferović answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1988	You see, this Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I didn't accidentally ask this question either. The document we have in front of us today is an annex. He's got to be an annex to something. So there's got to be some kind of basic document. It's illogical that he's called an annex without there being anything else under him or in front of him. There is therefore information, there is information from the Council of Ministers sent to the parliamentary procedure that may not have reached our home. I want and ask, therefore, that this information is shared here in the House and that, on the basis of this information and on the basis of this annex, a quality debate on this for me is otherwise a very serious problem, because the case thus showed very serious violations of human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I suggest that since this information here today is not going to move this item of the agenda for the next session, that it be shared with the delegates of the House of Information if it exists. So I've heard it exists. Here is the minister, let him say if there is that information, whether it was delivered to the parliamentary procedure to get it to us and then to carry out a quality debate. That's it. 104
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1989	I'm thanking you. Who's next to the word? I'd only ask for seriousness. The agenda point was adopted by the material you received. The fact that you heard of Mr. Džaferović that there is more information some in no way can disturb the established agenda point and the need to discuss it. I would ask you, a possible remark on the agenda you had the opportunity when the days of the order were established. Who's answering for the word on this agenda point?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1990	The speaker, Mr. Tokić, appears for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1991	I'm sorry, it was Genjac before that. Yeah, great. Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues, I agree that this is a very important item of the agenda and I think it's a good idea to put this item on the agenda simply to break the illusions of all those who are trying to fatate cheap political points on this issue. This is a first-class political issue. This is the only question, let me say, in which in the last existence of the sovereign, independent Bosnia and Herzegovina, the President of the United States mentioned Bosnia and Herzegovina in the address, the traditional address of the nations, and this is the issue that is present in Bosnia and Herzegovina, covered up, and this is the issue of relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina and this form of radicalism that is manifested amongst others and through the forms we saw on September 11th when we attacked the United States. Of course there was more preparedness here, determination than those in the Council of Ministers and in the Presidency today, we should have a survey committee and a debate on how it happened that so many people illegally criminalised the past were illegally granted citizenship in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that these same people who were convicted of crime of the most serious forms were pardoned by representatives of the former government. It's a political question. The thesis has simply changed completely here. Politically trying to judge and discuss allegedly on behalf of human rights those who are trying to heal, overcome problems, major problems that the previous structure of government has made on this issue. And this is a big political issue. I want the House of Peoples to discuss this as a matter of chicken today, a political issue. I have not entered the details and I think it would certainly be very important for the Council of Ministers, entity governments to build a legislative legal system consistent that will allow as a responsible authority in accordance with these laws as well as in any country that disturbs the country's hospitality in the most brutal way to deport. And I think that's where the Council of Ministers and entity governments have to do it. But let's discuss today whether the institutions have done the right thing politically. Let's get out of all aspects. Mr. Divković was talking about the OSCE. I can talk about the Council of Europe. I can responsibly say that the government has not acted so resolutely on the matter, the issue of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Strasbourg on 22 January would be treated in a completely different 105 way. And we here have to face that fact. Please, gentlemen of the U.S.A., say that the political people should have been left here. And on that issue, we'll make a difference. Say it individually and announce the biography of those people that you think should have stayed here. Here you go. But don't keep this issue under the cheap cover of keeping it hot all the time – cold so who's the point of the agenda is the annex, but we wouldn't say that part of the agenda, but I wouldn't know in different places that aren't the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina talking about these issues. You're talking here. You have a agenda point, you have an annex. Say it in that information is not true. The agenda point corresponds to the material you received. I'm not prejudicing a breakdown. If he has the responsibility of the Council of Ministers in the procedure, he shall bear responsibility. As far as I'm concerned, I only speak from a political level. The Council of Ministers, the entity government, the state's institutions have shown the kind of maturity and determination this country needs. I support them in this regard. Postponing this item of the agenda, so on the third, fourth, I am not saying which places to keep the debate quiet with half-information about this is not correct, it is not politically responsible either for this Council of Europe, nor for all the goals that you are taking in the declaration. That's not correct. And I ask the House of Nations to face this information. Clearly, I've asked both the Obdusmen and one and another for information on this. We can still look for information, but plead here today politically about this move. This is very important for the stability of this country, for the Council of Ministers' mandate. You are mistaken if you have the support that such people should remain in Bosnia and Herzegovina like those of the five who have been deported from Bosnia and Herzegovina. You're wrong. Neither Bosniak nor Serbian nor Croatian people want that. This is devastating for Bosnia and Herzegovina and what I think should be demonstrated here today is through support of this information, ultimately correct this one to give support to the political orientation of the Bosnian Herzegovic structure of government. Everything else will lead us into the past, antagonisms and outside European integration, and some are in the past and as they wish. Not only outside European integration, but they wanted to change here a complete philosophy of the lives of Bosnian Muslims. Looks like he's still got a reaction like that. I would like to have a political discussion today, not to say not to use the harsh word – we would like to postpone this agenda. You have a agenda point with the material that's been adopted. The home of the people today needs to be made known about this information. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Jusufović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1993	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates I wouldn't have gone into the details of this whether you'd call the information, because it's obviously not information, but an Annex to the information, but it was called one way or another we were all familiar with through the media or any other way about this issue. So I wouldn't particularly comment on this issue, whether or not there was a possible breach, whether it was a foundation or not. Absolutely about it, possibly if it were to get into the details, it could be discussed. But it means I accept the information myself, but it would have brought her into contact with another question that we just set out to do. 106 So there's no dilemma when it comes to this part so call it whatever you want information not information. But this Mr. Tokić, who is political, is extremely and politically and every other question. However, I would include something about the political climate, that is, the readiness of local authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina for other issues that are related to this issue, which is – so I absolutely support this. The first point in the past, better said the first commitment taken by Bosnia and Herzegovina's authorities, is the arrest of war criminals. For these reasons, I want to bind or connect to this point that domestic authorities, and above all I will concentrate on two people to mention as everyone else, where the entire international community, now or recently through the media, are discussing whether the action or not has succeeded in arresting Mr Karadžić and should possibly follow Mr Mladić. We're talking about those who participated in international bodies. And why don't we ask ourselves if there's still the willingness of the local authorities to do it? That is exactly what I want to mention here with the adoption of this information, what is done regardless of whether it is possible to talk about certain details, whether everything is done right or not, but we will not have to do so here and elsewhere, and in accordance with the obligations we have made to enter the Council of Europe, ask the question of arresting war criminals and the relations of local authorities with these issues. I specifically mentioned two men, but according to all others on the UN tribunal's list, it's the prosecution. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1994	Thank you. This is certainly an important question. It was also treated in the previous agenda point when information was accepted regarding thinking. I would still like to stick to this agenda point, completely supporting the orientation that was said in the discussion, but it does not belong to this agenda point as we have addressed it. For the word of it, sir, is that a replica? Mr. Tokić's replica from the esteemed Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1995	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, it is now clear to me why we have only received an annex on the treatment of officials of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and entities towards persons from so-called people. "Algerian groups," and we didn't get here at the House of Peoples full information that was delivered in parliamentary procedure. So now I totally understand why it is, and I didn't ask for that information to be delivered today to delay the debate on this subject and to keep it in a warm atmosphere as my colleague Tokić says, I am, of course, very ready to discuss it today and on the basis of this annex, but I expected to read more in this information than it says in this annex. I am surprised with the tone and with the way to think about this topic, Mr. Tokić. Mr. Tokić here, therefore, this information is neither about terrorism, nor about radicalism, this is about the conduct of the state authorities in 107 one specific case and the assessment of whether or not human rights have been violated. So it's perfectly clear and I'm going to do it again here – me and, of course, the SDA and as a delegate here, so it's quite clear so far that it's countless times we condemn terrorism as an evil that nothing is accomplished, but only produces a new evil. We condemn every kind of radicalism and extremism. At least we citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who lived here from 92 to 95 can therefore understand all the devastating consequences of terrorism and the devastating consequences of radicalism and extremism, because we have been exposed to various types of terrorism every day for four years. The city of Sarajevo has been shackled for 42 months. It killed 14,000 people, of which 1,400 children.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1996	I'd really like to ask you, the annex is part of the agenda. I know you all need to talk about other questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1997	I have a need.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1998	I ask you to respect the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u1999	I respect the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman, and I condemn, of course, the SDA has clearly condemned the terrorist act against American cities since 11 September, and we condemn all those who have organised it, betrayed and who have, in connection with them and here, Mr. Chairman, do not replace the thesis. This isn't about that. That's what we had a debate about here in this House. This is about the next one. Do I, as a citizen of this country, feel safe in my own country, if I have a government in the country that is willing to act against the decisions of the courts. Contrary to the decision of the House of Human Rights? Am I sure in a country where I have authority that, when such a violation is done against the Court's decision, the House of Human Rights, then justice criticises that same decision by the House of Human Rights, which is totally inadmissible. That's what this is about. Who can, and who can't stay in this country and live in this country, Mr. Tokić, is governed by the positive regulations of this country. In this country, all BiH citizens and all those who live in it in accordance with the law and in this country should leave all those who violate the laws and regulations of this country, but in accordance with the law and the Constitution prescribed the procedure. In accordance with the law and the Constitution, the prescribed procedure. That's what I'm talking about. Here in this case, therefore, in my court, based on the information I have made several important mistakes, which are a direct violation of human rights. There is no respect for the decision of home for human rights supreme judicial instance in the field of protection of human rights and no respect for the procedure, the legal procedure for the law on citizenship when it comes to dismissal, i.e. the confiscation of citizenship. I want information on these circumstances. There's no record of these circumstances in this annex. I want to see how that procedure was carried out? Which is why I'm responsible and then I'm putting forward proposals for this, and I've been looking for the detailed and complete information that the House of Representatives had. Thank you. 108
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2000	Mr. Nikola Špirić picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2001	Dear fellow delegates, esteemed guests, I've been thinking about whether it makes any sense for me to report when the debate on this agenda is, but I share the view that this is a very serious problem which, therefore, does not only shake BiH out of a war that builds its institutions, but is subordinated to a complete democratic world. In that sense, my commitment, so even before these events, is about '96. The year was on the line of an honest fight against terrorism, and there was a global and democratic public in me having a sincere conversation because terrorism in its most cruel form was shown in September of the month and before, unfortunately, while in BiH there was war, there were elements and terrorism and crimes, and that is what affects BiH the most, therefore, its citizens, and that is what bothers both democratic Europe and the democratic world, and we need to be aware of that. What I wish it were today is that, when it comes to the fight against terrorism of different groups in BiH, if we had held a closed session, that, as fellow delegates, we honestly talked about everything that the government in BiH has achieved, without it being part of the marketing of the political option of this or that, and I don't think that any marketing will move things forward rather than just through sincere dialogue and allocating those problems that concern our country, I think about BiH above all. It would be better for us to open up the dialogue within BiH ourselves than to be happy to be reminded by someone outside that we've hit. So, I'd prefer it if we had the strength to have an honest dialogue to prevent processes from going unsolicited. What I'm trying to say is, I've been preparing perhaps the best of all the delegates for this session and the longest I've thought about whether to participate in the debate. Now I'm going to tell you in preparation for what kind of documents I've come up with. It's not true that they only have an annex, because the situation has cooled down, so many of them have gone too far and said maybe the best thing to do is to go in this direction. I also agree with such an approach if the problems in BiH will be solved in the best possible way. So, I'll take the next piece of paper. I have the paper Sarajevo 5.2.2002. subject of information on the deportation of the Algerian group where it is said. The Honorable, of course, writes in the House of Peoples chairman, the conclusion of the BiH House of Peoples College, was decided that the House of Peoples at its 15th session, given that it was prolonged, which will be held 21.2. as a special item of the agenda, considered information on the deportation of the Algerian group to be submitted by the Council of Ministers of BiH. In order to make this issue more fully considered, it is also necessary to collect information from all relevant institutions that were directly or indirectly involved, etc., therefore, that is what our chairman is looking for, and then I have an answer. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which corresponds to Mr. Sejfudin Tokić, the Ombudsman Federation of BiH, Vera Jovanović, Esad Muhibić and Branka Raguž, therefore, that is why. I hope you all got it, because I got it through protocol. Then on February 6, 2002, Your Honor, regarding your letter of 5 February 2002 concerning the deportation of the Algerian group, we present the original and translation of the press statement 109 by Mr. Franko Orton of the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH on these issues. In the meantime, if we have new information, we will deliver it, according to Arben Murtezić. There is a statement here by the Ombudsman sent to us, therefore, under quotes, embarrassingly and unseriously says the Ombudsman. He says, in the end, this is unthinkable and stupid because foreign authorities would surely accept BiH authorities and expect them to follow the rule of law and implement good governance in accordance with the country's laws even if it meant slower assistance. Earth is always being built by law. That was the response of the Ombudsman. Then I have Secretary of the House of the Peoples Mr. Jadranko Tomić, the subject of the notice of confidentiality of the documents is delivered. So he says, esteemed sir, we are informed by Zlatko Miletić about your inquiry, so the secretary of the House of People has asked someone to interpret it. Everyone's got something... and they're looking to make sure today we all say we only have this annex. With regard to your inquiry from the liaison act, we would like to inform you that the material in the annex is being handled by BiH institutions and entities to persons from the live DVDs. The Algerian group can use the number in full public debate at a regular session scheduled for 21.2.2002 because the act does not have a degree of confidentiality until the act, therefore, information on the activities of the joint co-ordination team on the implementation of the plan of the BiH institutions and entities to prevent terrorist activities and actions for the period 24.9.2011 to 24.1.2002. the act cannot be used in public debate because it is designated as a document of official secrecy, trusted for at least three reasons and listed reasons, but what I want to show that what is confidential for us is officially not the same degree of confidentiality in another home. These are the MPs of the House of Representatives who received this material. I took advantage of, of course, a different position to get to that text, since it bears a strict mark. I won't comment on it at all, but I don't think there's anything that can be a fight against terrorism in the interests of this country that delegates and MPs are not equal, and they don't have the same level of information and it's not a good contribution to the fight against terrorism, and in that sense I think Mr. Genjac and Mr. Džaferović were asking questions whether there was any information. There is, but someone has to answer why one home is strictly up for another home is not strictly up and as long as it's done that, believe me, we may not be on the best track. And if I were to say that the small shift of government in BiH in the fight against terrorism is a big step and I think that in the interview Mr. Izetbegović said best I wouldn't do it but I understand Mr. Zlatko. It is not, therefore, when the whole democratic world is fighting terrorism then and a small contribution must be... valuable and in that sense I think that the great contribution of those who have caused disorder, evil, etc. be deported from BiH, which would be done by any democratic state. But is that a unique example? Are there other examples in BiH that are strictly pove or have them or are not there? What I'm trying to tell you is that the best mechanism against terrorism is not being chosen. I also have other information that I received in preparation for this session, which they send me, since, of course, citizens know that I am getting ready well for these sessions so they send me without the address of the memos they have, therefore, the addresses to which they are sent, and they concern other groups that are in BiH, which are also the problem of BiH on the fight against terrorism. It is, therefore, an Egyptian group. After Algeria we have an Egyptian group that, I beg you, I will bring everything into the context of the Algerian group because everything is our problem. 110
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2002	I have no doubt, but it will look like an attempt to bring Karadžić in and then we will open a general debate. We're talking, I think we've got our fellow Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2003	I'm asking you to be an Egyptian group. You have material in which they have pictures of people. It's materials that do different services in BiH. Here's a picture of people looking for each other. So, I'll let the public prepare it. It's 13 people who are known to have received citizenship twice, false citizenship. Those who are even known to have received a Schengen visa to be outside, some of the most responsible services in BiH assume they do not know where they are but what is known is the fight against terrorism that took part in granting citizenship. Is there a name and last name in BiH responsible and it says so and people who gave these citizenships are written here. But what is not good for BiH in the end is said, note that we have forwarded these findings to the foreign ministry, the Co-ordination Team for the fight against terrorism, the BiH Federation of BiH and SNS, in this Croatian section of the service as it is called security services. Where's the MUP RS? Where is the information for these people there, if they are in BiH? Can we not inform each other effectively in the fight against terrorism? I'm just saying what needs to be done to make it a synchronic activity to make it less. So not all of us are using possible mechanisms. We are not even honest that BiH would make an even bigger step and now the question is raised. I talked about this in public in Parliament six years ago. Unfortunately, I did not have the support to resolve this issue in BiH precisely because of political support for this problem. I will be pleased when those people who worked on the line of imports of terrorists, on the line of creation of a basis for terrorism, on the line of creation of a basis for terrorism, on the line of creation and for crime, will be named and named and answered in BiH. It will be the strongest contribution to the fight against terrorism and will be the brakes of many who think they can do it. I will remind you more of the interviews I have been reading these days where it is publicly said that there was no BiH either, and it is said that the weapons in the equipment and training process that have been taken away for various reasons have been overly completed in the second war. Is that a fight against terrorism? Is that our participation? I want to congratulate the authorities in BiH and on a slight shift, and I want to make it clear that there are still major problems that the government cannot bite because there is no political environment that has no mechanisms, etc. and will have in me as Parliamentarian the serious and most serious support. Crossing things isn't good, so I don't think there should be any secrets for delegates and MPs who are taking care of the state, and when we want to have this kind of debate next time, I'm asking you not to fall into a trap, because I have the impression that the wishes and memos of the different people who have gone away have been slowly returned inside. It would be good and I suggest that, in connection with the fight against terrorism, therefore, we dedicate an active contribution from BiH to a closed session, in which we will call on all the most responsible and simply help BiH to really be one of the most active associates in the fight because it also concerns BiH. I suggest that one closed session in which we speak more freely, where we will not be the first propaganda, political campaign, or this or that kind, discuss these problems. What I can say is, I am happy that they are carrying out a positive 111 tonnes in BiH on the fight against terrorism, and I am happy that we have become allies of democratic states in Europe and in the world on that line, but that relations in BiH are so clean that we can baptize our hands and sit. I think we're at the beginning of a serious and difficult job, and this information that I have, that it wouldn't be that we're unequally prepared I'm going to give to the public because the public is the best court to fight terrorism. So not only the Algerian groups, but the Egyptian group, which is now, the Algerian group has been delivered. It may be the subject of our tampering whether we did good or bad, but this is BiH's biggest problem. This is what is pressuring us now because it is happening in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2004	Please, sir, I'm really gonna have to take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2005	There's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2006	I'm really asking you, obviously there's no willingness to talk about the material we have. There's a strategy to fight terrorism. That's not the agenda point. There is, it exists. This information annex of that strategy, but it can be requested that we discuss the strategy. I think we ended it when we had a joint session of both homes and when we talked about it. How the BiH institution's anti-terrorism strategy has reached the MPs and how it has collapsed, I really don't care. If MPs want to talk about it, about the anti-terrorism strategy, I think it's completely legitimate. We have and our entire initiative has been tied to the Algerian group. Of course, Mr Špirić would raise the question of the Egyptian group as the most important issue. The Council of Europe, as we just adopted as a priority, has introduced the arrest of Karadžić and Mladić, but will not take us anywhere. The abuse of this agenda point, so we don't talk about the material we got. We can take a position, the material isn't complete or it is complete, we accept information and we want to talk about any other information and that's legitimate. But I ask you to call closed sessions, it is simply what is not in line with Mr Špirić's view that we should share everything with the press. Mr. Divković picked up the line, so I'll give you the word right after.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2007	Mr. Špirić spoke so widely and extensively about this matter that I had to write it at the beginning where he said it somewhere, probably referring to, I would say, my report from the OSCE Council that it was not good to praise us for hitting. I'm like this, I think I've been cinged. I don't care if he didn't mean it, then I'm saying that there's really no way at such gatherings, it would be naive for anyone to praise us for hitting something or not. It was simply that people appreciated the extraordinary consistency in the fight against terrorism as the greatest evil in the world today, and I don't know how much we are aware of it, but when a man comes out, then he becomes aware of how much this topic is one in the world and how much political, practical, debates are going on about it, and in particular 112 clearly gave up recognition of the current authority in its determination in the fight against terrorism fulfilled, among other things, when it comes to the Algerian group, and that's what I tried to say. I have one more thing to tell you about terrorism. That a special session is scheduled in Berlin now in the summer where only the topic will be terrorism, where the concept of terrorism will be defined, the causes of its and the measures to prevent terrorism, etc. So that's one topic that will be discussed safely in the world this year and perhaps in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2008	Mr. Špirić answered again for his word. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2009	Of course, I didn't mean to, but I have to tell my colleague, Divković, that the report from the Viennese of Europe, we accidentally hit it. It is a great honor for BiH to have a positive report on the Council of Europe not only on the fight against terrorism but on anything that is happening to BiH, and I am happy to say, but if someone else is saying it's not good for us to say someone mentioned us somewhere, now good. We must, in the interest of this country, regulate the matter here so that the fact that they mention us for a reason would be of any interest to this country, but when we talk about the fight against terrorism, we don't need anxiety, at least when it comes to me. You've got an honest conversation in me about everything. The story of Karadžić and Mladić cannot be attributed to other stories, and it is said every day that attempts are made to arrest people. Why don't we talk about, say, an Egyptian group without being mentioned that story. Why are we in the bi, you can talk to me about everything, there's no taboo topic. But not every time there's a wind somewhere that says no to my knowledge of Radovan Karadžić and Ratko Mladić. We will not make progress in BiH. You have an honest conversation in me. Why today when we're talking terrorism and I'm talking about an Egyptian group of 13 people who have reports that we're not going to share with delegates? I'll share with the press that they know because the fates of their children and all of us here are threatened, now I'm telling a different story to reconcile two uncompromising options. I don't want that. This is not an honest approach to combat for me, and I ask you nicely and to the Council of Ministers and all and the Co-ordination Team for the fight against terrorism. That fight must be a lot harder. Much more honest with both the citizens of BiH and the international community.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2010	Please, I would really like to ask, my intervention regarding the mention of Karadžić and Mladić and mentioning the Egyptian group is that you have neither material nor that is the point of the agenda. I, indeed, as chairman, to be perfectly clear, that's completely incorrect. We want to discuss the Egyptian group, Mr Špirić, Mr Jusufović, anyone can initiate the agenda point, propose a resolution, a declaration, conclusions. This agenda item was initiated by me. It was accepted by the colleges and this is the information the Council of Ministers officially has on this issue. He's got a strategy. No problem at all, but I'd like to run a session and shut it down and I don't mind you two sitting there and talking about third questions. Who's still answering for the word? Gosodin Genjac. 113
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2011	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have requested relevant documents and information from the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly, given the information from the information funds and the held session of the House of Representatives. They told me there was an information officer to take over for signature. I went to that clerk, however, the door was locked. Once again I walked the door was closed again, so I didn't have a chance to see that information, and believe me, I don't know in the world that sometimes and somewhere we're talking about an annex in the translation of the add-on without having talked about that thing. I didn't remember it or know it. And I don't need... no problem. There's that information. It would be good if members of the House had gotten that information, but I'm paying attention to one other thing. The chairman said that this item was placed on the agenda, for the reasons that several issues were raised around the Algerian group. That's right. All these issues, which I have registered, including Mr. Tokić's question, were there any violations of human rights in the context of the deportation of the Algerian group, etc. At one of the previous sessions, the chairman asked exactly that question. When I put it all together, I meant that following some distribution, some secret doesn't call a point of information, but an annex that the information in the course of the session will be delivered and, of course, I understood that talking about this point of the agenda is the treatment of this problem from the aspect of respect for human rights. I really thought so, because everything that's been done so far to get to this point has led to that. Now we have an interpretation that this should be spoken from the aspect of political approach. I don't mind talking about these issues from the point of view of political approach, but I have access, I have a problem with the noise tone saying gentlemen from the U.S.A. go ahead and make a political statement, etc. Such an approach, such a relationship, such a tone is inappropriate for this home. I can have some other questions... on some side and the gentlemen of some party won't do it. What kind of way is that and why is that said go ahead, gentlemen from the U.S.A. So if you want a gentleman from the SDA, here I'm telling you, we need to talk politically about these issues, but politically talk about terrorism, because it can be politically discussed about phenomena and not concrete actions. We can also discuss politically the Council of Ministers' procedure in a particular case. The assessment of the political issue and the assessment, of course in politics, is appreciated by the consequences. I am aware that there must be a relationship in BiH and opportunities around BiH and the position of an international factor in the international community and says politically it may be shown that the Council of Ministers has done well, and if you are looking for a clear statement, I think the Political Council of Ministers should at this point act so that it can be understood. But come on, if you want to talk, therefore, to the questions of the gentlemen of the U.S.A. not appropriate rude questions, I answer. If you want political talk about terrorism, come on, put it on the agenda. In the 21st century, man was stoned. kamenovan gentlemen, dear. And it's a matter of terrorism and a lot has happened in the 21st century. It is all terrorism, but this and this issue can also be discussed in a political way, with respect for the law, respect for human rights, respect for BiH institutions etc. So the question could be asked the id of the mockery. Gentlemen, are you to disrespect the institutions of the BiH system? Are you gentlemen for human rights violations? So these are questions, which illustrates how complex the question is and how difficult it is. Of course, by the time we get there, coming up to 114 answers are possible, if we really treat the agenda the way it is and how it is placed. It is a completely inappropriate question for gentlemen from the SDA, so here, two MPs from the U.S. have all stayed in this house, opinions are known, opinions are read, views are known, what everyone thinks, but the opinion of the two MPs is read, and then gentlemen from the U.S.A. It was a time when thoughts were read and what someone thought and what someone had to think. It's time to talk. At the beginning of the session we were talking about democracy. A democracy that even within the ruling alliance comes to the field of anarchy and within, but it is democracy. If we're talking about democracy, let's talk about democracy. So we have to define ourselves. Are we talking about this from a human rights aspect or from a political aspect or from one and the other? If we speak from a human rights aspect, there is no need to speak to the gentlemen of the U.S.A. A number of international institutions should be addressed to the Helsinki Committee, the Ombudsmen, who have expressed their views on human first and human rights violations. If we're talking about human rights, and I think this was the intensity of this point. If we're talking about a political approach, I said, and I'm asking you to keep that in mind. In the end, please, I just can't without quoting one sentence from the answer that we received in writing, on the request of the chairman of this home given by the Ombudsman Federation. In the media, the ombudsmen of the Federation declared that they were not in charge, that no one had spoken to them, but please a sentence. Since we are not familiar with the status of the BiH Citizenship Group, it is expected that the application of Article 15 will be possible. European Conventions... Article 4. The Civil and Political Rights Pact, which envisions the possibility of restrictions on rights and freedoms in certain situations. Gentlemen, the signature of the Ombudsman institution from this text is shameful. So we don't know anything about it, we don't know the status, but if you want to violate these people's human rights, it's possible to find a solution to how to violate human rights. Now, gentlemen, for the future for the work of BiH for the work of history, it must be heard in this home of the people. Politically very clear, all those who are here doing evil, all those who are causing problems, all those who threaten anyone, have no place in BiH. But this should be done in accordance with the respect of institutions, with respect for human rights and, of course, that the very institutions that are in charge of this take care of themselves first and foremost.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2012	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for word? I think we can end this. There's been a lot of talk here. Here I am now getting the accompanying text of the letter that was in the House of Representatives. Therefore, there is information on the activities of the Joint Coordination Team in the implementation of the plan of BiH institutions and entities on the prevention of terrorist activities and actions for the period 24.09. to 24.01. is the information that stands and if it contains a degree of confidentiality and if that information is requested, I believe that it can be discussed in this home, but what has been sought is related to the Algerian group. The knives are also handled on information if they are officially in the procedure, according to the Rules of Procedure and Mr Špirić or any other question, but I really ask you, we had a topic here related to Algerian groups. As chairman, I tried to get all aspects of this in response to the parliamentary question, the 115-minister council said whether there were errors in the procedure. You've received ombudsmen's answers to each other that aren't identical, they're different. I prefer that this is primarily a political issue and it is, after all that's happened, in my opinion, a political topic, but at no time would I want to talk about all the other aspects. That's how much I wanted to say as an explanation. So we can put other information on the agenda later, but let's end this point. Is anyone else answering for word? I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2013	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, so today I took this point of the agenda as an opportunity to discuss a competitive case in which, in my court and the information that I have violated human rights. That's a serious problem for me. That's why I insisted on that information, but here I have information from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives from the Federal House. They've all got that information only we're gonna get here. So let's know. So, I'm qualified to brush. However, there are no answers to questions. I do not have any answers to all the questions raised here, and I propose that a parliamentary committee be formed in this case, which will carry out an investigation, that this parliamentary commission in this investigation determines all relevant facts and report to this House. So for me, the subject of human injury is the first yes or no. I claim that human rights have been violated and all the other debates that went in some other direction today are, in fact, some kind of abuse of this agenda point, which I tried to point out in my discussion. So, I propose that a parliamentary group be formed, a parliamentary committee that will conduct an investigation, establish all relevant facts and inform this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2014	Thank you. This proposal certainly has a foothold in the Rules of Procedure, to form a working group as a temporary body. We'll talk about him, of course. Before that, we need to make a statement about the information itself. I'm closing the debate. Who is to accept Annex on the conduct of BiH institutions and entities officials towards people so-called. Algerian groups, whose applicant is the Council of Ministers? Who's against it? 12 is for—against anyone. Abstained? - 2 Let’s go to the second proposal. Who believes it is necessary to form, in line with the proposal, according to Mr Džaferović's working group, a parliamentary group that would first investigate the case. Who thinks a group like that should be formed? Who's against this proposal? - 5 116 Who's abstentioned? I find that this proposal has not received the necessary majority and has been rejected as such. Moving to point 14. Denied. If it makes you feel any better, it's been rejected. Ad.14. The Law on Administrative Procedure – Proposed by the Council of Ministers – first reading we have a debate – on...the principles on which the bill is based, Article 91. Do any of the members of the Council of Ministers need to step forward? There isn't. I'm opening a debate over this law. Do any of the envoys and delegates, respected and respected members of this high house, want to talk about this? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. I find the report from the first-reading committee responsible is obtained. There's no need to explain that. Who is it that this law is in the first reading, or whoever it is, so that there is a debate on members of the law in the follow-up procedure. 14 All 14 delegates who were present accepted the messenger. Ad.15. Protocol on the establishment and functioning of cultural centres between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey – The Presidency received a report from this commission. There is, as far as I can see, an authorised representative of the Bureau on this agenda. If he has needs, he can turn around. Is there a need to...? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Which for the adoption and acceptance of this protocol? He's got a commission position. Who's against it? Who's being held back? – 1 I find that a Protocol on the establishment and functioning of cultural centres between the Council of Ministers of BiH has been adopted – the proposal of the Presidency. Ad.16. An agreement on co-operation in the fight against international terrorism, illicit drug trafficking, psychotropic substances and organised crime between the BiH Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Turkey – is proposed by the presidency you received a report from the commission. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. The promoter doesn't need to explain further. The word came from this agenda point, Mr Špirić. Here you go. 117
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2015	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that in any case all the agreements we conclude with, from neighbouring countries to any country in Europe, are related to the fight against international terrorism, illegal drug trafficking, etc. Welcome, but before we conclude or approach the ratification of the agreement, it would be good for us to have information on the line of entry and residence of foreign citizens in BiH about the situation and whether all mechanisms against international terrorism, illegal stay in BiH, exits, etc. on the line of signed agreements. So before a deal is ratified with any country, it would be good if we had that analysis. Lately, there have been a lot of signs that out of the number of people who illegally use BiH's territory, which are illegal in BiH, the largest number of Turkish citizens. With other countries, we have regulated it in a way that introduces the visa regime. I am so that those countries that have friendly relations with BiH draw out of these friendly relationships all possible benefits, but there can be no draining of the benefits of any country in this fight against, say, crime, terrorism, prostitution, drugs, etc. That is why I am not in favour of ratifying the agreement in advance until we have an analysis of whether all the mechanisms, which are past these protocols belong to the state of BiH and the state of Turkey. What does it mean to us if every day we have an analysis and we say 100 or 200 examples of people in BiH have entered. Which we know are in BiH, we don't know where they are. Some of us know they've gone out, but they haven't gone out to Western Europe, etc. There are similar examples where we have successfully fought against these forms through the visa regime. So my proposal is that before ratification of any agreement, those who propose ratification of the agreement give us a detailed analysis and description of the situation. There are problems in BiH, not related to BiH from different countries. Well, at least we can locate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2016	Thank you. Of course, I appreciate every proposal but this one really doesn't fit the agenda. Mr. Špirić and any member of this high, respected home may request information. It may request a agenda item. Before a certain item of the agenda may request two or three more points of the agenda. This agenda item is defined as it says. It has entered the parliamentary procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and today the parliamentary procedure ends and there is no business possibility of conditionaling on any information. There is a possibility to request that information already at the next session and I think the Council of Ministers should respond to such requests and any other requirements and I think it was useful. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2017	118 I beg you, there are serious things. There's no need to be nervous. I accept every rational attitude. But if I'm told there's a pronoun here, that he's sitting here, I'm a delegate and anyone else is asking if he has that analysis. Is there even that analysis? What are the focal points, which I object to being told in BiH. There is, there isn't. Yeah, he's got this, he doesn't have this. If there is no answer, it will define me for ratification or for counter-ratification. That's all I'm talking about. I know what as a delegate I have the right and that I can run the agenda point and ask a thousand times and not get an answer, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2018	I thank you. I think this debate would take us far away on the competences of the institutions, but I certainly think we should have this approach, but it's not correct to ask the Presidency for such information now. I can agree, that we, here I, as chairman, will ask for one written information and to present the House, and if the House reviews can be considered. I'm in the middle of a debate on this issue. You received a report from the commission, and that's what I said at the hearing. The commission's report is positive. I think that the conditions have been obtained to ratify this activity, and according to what I said we will take over and I believe we will provide the Council of Ministers together, because the Council of Ministers in cooperation with other institutions is relevant information. Can we approach the vote? Who's in?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2019	The president of the commission says this wasn't on the committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2020	Is there a breach in the procedure? There's a constitutional basis for ratification. You have a report in the material. Is it slow? Can we approach the vote? I don't see anything controversial people here. This information can be provided. I really can't understand that in the end of the ratification procedure of one agreement, we can conclude on other points of the agenda. We can't turn one point into anything. Who's in? Who's against it? It's nobody. Are there any abstentions? - has no entity majority. He's going for a match. Everyone from the RS. He's going for a match. In the second round of voting, if we all voted like this then this agreement would pass, but that's not going to happen. I believe that in the College we will get the strength to have 119 this strategic question, the most important question, in which, apparently, all spears are broken, brought together. Isn't that right, Mr. Špirić, with a promise that I'll try to make a contribution. Here I think that now in full composition we can expect even better results from this high home of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. We're at the 17th point of our session. Ad. 17. The Faculty Protocol with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which refers to the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography, is proposed by the predsjednitšvo You have received a report from the Commission. There's no presidency because it's a deal you've all got. If there are any questions, the Proposer may come forward, but I remind you that all questions are in principle intended for the commission phase and clarification before this final act – statements. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I'm finishing my dispersion. Who's to ratify this protocol? Is anyone restrained? 14 So all present unanimously accept the ratification of this protocol. Ad.18. The university protocol with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which refers to the engagement of children in the armed conflict, is proposed by the BiH Presidency, and you have received a report from the commission. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Is anyone answering for a word? He's not answering. I'm closing the debate. Who's to give consent to ratification? All 14 envoys, distinguished delegates, are in favour. Ad.19. The Faculty Protocol with the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination of Women – Proposer of the BiH Presidency, you have received a report from the Commission. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. I don't see anyone answering the honourable delegates, the envoys, the esteemed colleagues, we can approach the vote. Who's to ratify this convection. I'm finding out all 14 of them. Ad.20. A development loan agreement number 35 38 A Community development project between BiH and the International Development Association 120 You have received a report from the commission. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Is anyone picking up for a concussion? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Who's to ratify this agreement? Who's against it? - Nobody. Who's being held back. I find that with 13 votes that they have joined, this agreement has been ratified. Moving to point 21. Ad.21. The development loan agreement number 35 33 The second project of a local initiative between BiH and the International Development Association You received a report from the Commission 21st. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. The agreement shall be ratified or not ratified and the Commission's conclusions shall only contribute to the identification of MPs of honourable envoys and delegates. The debate on point 21. I'll repeat for the stenogram development loan agreement number 35 33. I'm closing the debate. There have been conditions to declare this item of the agenda. Who is it to give consent to ratify this agreement? Is there anyone against the ratification of this agreement? There's no one here. I find that 13 present envoys voted in favour of ratification of this agreement. Ad.22. Development Credit Agreement No 35 31 BOS Technical Association Project for Development You have received a report from the Commission. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Is anyone answering for a word? That's what I mean by "proposers." We're at 22. I'm asking for concentration. Credit Development Agreement No 35 31 BOS Technical Association Project for Development. We've opened the debate and we're waiting for someone to come forward. There's two debaters. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2021	I have a clear reserve according to the ratification of this agreement. It is, therefore, a ratification of the Agreement of the Technical Aid for Privatisation Project, which means that BiH will be in charge of $20m. So, $25m per 35 years, so $25m per 35 years for ino consultants in the Privatisation Project in BiH, without any clear provision in the agreement on what is the task of these people. If we are in charge of 20 million dollars, is the task of these international experts to participate and complete privatisation 5 – 10 – 20 – 30 – 50 strategic enterprises. What's their obligation? I am against the fact that the future generation in BiH is in debt and someone would not pay without any obligation. For me, this is not a good deal for BiH, without clearly deductible allegations of what the Chi task is. Here it decidently stands in a member of the agreement that the funds are being shared, so I am undermining 90% of the funds for the ino consultants and 10% are the technical costs for the implementation of this agreement. If BiH makes such agreements, it is difficult for it and I believe that from 121 of that custody phase in the partnership phase, it will not be with these agreements unless the one taking the funds from BiH has a clearly defined task. I'm in favour of ratifying the agreement, if it seems to be the task of international experts, if this is technical assistance to lead to a certain number of enterprises in a technical sense. Otherwise, it's a stupid thing for us to be in charge of $20 million, to set up an office in Sarajevo and Banja Luka where people will withdraw those funds and say, "Thank you." Process failed. You're in charge of the future generation. I am against ratification of this agreement and I am absolutely clear here and if there is someone from the Council of Ministers of International Representatives, from the International Bank to give me some other information that may not be in this agreement I can correct their position, but after reading this agreement I am against ratification.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2022	All right, thank you to my dear fellow envoy, Mr Špirić, for the explanation and argument against the ratification of this agreement. Here you go, Mr. Ilić. Is it on behalf of the commission? On behalf of the commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2023	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, we had an explanation at the committee session by and the proposings and also by the representatives of the Presidency and, after all we received, the Commission decided not to ratify this agreement for these reasons presented by Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2024	Thank you. You heard the report from the committee in charge and verbally and you got it, I mean in writing. So, the Commission's opinion is consultingly, it's not automatically as it is about the laws when it comes to amendments, but now we're pleading. Is anyone else answering for word? The word comes to mind, if it's not a problem, Mr. Genjac, perhaps a representative of the Council may help.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2025	He won't.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2026	It won't help anything. Here you go. We understand each other what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2027	We understand each other. Since it is a set of loans and the position of the commission has already been expressed by Mr Ilić, I suggest that, following a statement on this agreement on ratification of this agreement, let us take the vote and a proposal for the next conclusion. 122 That the Council of Ministers prepares information on BiH's responsibility from 31.12 last year. We had that information occasionally. In 2001, I think it's like the year in which the commitment to annuity, interest, etc. came to an end. that it is very interesting and that it would be useful for the Council of Ministers to prepare that information, that we consider it when considering a series of credit agreements that await us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2028	I'm thanking you. This is about an initiative that's legitimate. It and one MP may request it and will be forwarded to the Council of Ministers. Here you go, sir. Deputy Minister of Honor, Mr. Nikola Kragulj.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2029	Honorable MPs, Your Honor, I'd like to say about this agreement a few sentences. First, I fully agree that the agreement itself, since the agreements are mostly typical of not seeing the content and all that would be important to know when deciding, but in the platform that preceded this agreement is, on the basis of which this loan was negotiated. It stands, but it is primarily the provision of consulting services to help privatise large strategic enterprises, but also other companies that are privatised after the tender sale, and I must say that consultants are responsible to entity governments for what they will do. That's how the platform was set up. The second thing, this credit agreement, this loan is in line with the entities on their, practically, insistence has accepted the Council of Ministers to enter the procedure for signing the loan agreement, so that the fact is also known. Third, I believe that when the report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers is adopted, information on BiH's responsibility with 31.12.2002 will also be provided, as this is practically part of the report on the work of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2030	Thank you. So, both in one version and in another, we'll have that at the next session. The College will ensure that this information is present and can be considered within this point, which is scheduled for 21 March when the next session of the House of Peoples is planned. I think we've got enough arguments to decide on granting consent to ratify development loan agreement number 35 31 Technical Association Project for Development. On behalf of the Croatian Envoys Club, Honorable Representative Divković requested a 10-minute break, and I ask all other distinguished envoys as well as the Croatian delegates' Club to really be ten minutes to end. 123 The conditions of the ascension have been obtained. [[PAUZA]] As soon as we get the quorum, there will be conditions. We already have a quorum. We don't. I'm only asking for patience. I know we've worked a long time, hard, committed in accordance with the interests of all three Bosnian-Herzegovic constituent nations. Who is to give consent to ratification of the 35 31 BOS Development Loan Agreement Project Technical Association for Development? Who's in? - 2 votes are for Who is against this agreement? - Three votes are against it. The abstentions? 6 With 3 votes against – 2 for – you are late. It doesn't affect the vote. The vote was over. I'm sorry. The House of Peoples has not agreed to ratify this agreement. Ad.23. The conclusions of the Commission on foreign and trade policy on the travels of the parliamentary delegation You have received these conclusions. Whether the Chair of the Commission needs to give reasons. Anyway, as far as I'm concerned, they have the conclusions in writing you got. So it's about respecting the Rules of Procedure, strengthening the functions of this, and especially, for these delegations, ad-hoc. It shall not apply to permanent delegations or delegations at the highest level of the call. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Do you mind? This conclusion to the general satisfaction has been adopted. Unanimously, all 12 in attendance voted. It has a formulation in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, respecting the powers provided for in the Rules of Procedure. It's a restrictive act. I wouldn't have members of the College voted for sure if it was... someone. Ad.24. Proposal for a resolution laying down guidelines for resolving refugee issues from the Republic of Croatia – is the envoy – delegate Nikola Špirić I would like to remind you briefly of the psolonic provisions on resolutions defined by Article 114. The House can express its position on all relevant political issues, social problems, needs and establish political guidelines to be implemented by the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers and other BiH institutions. Any delegate can submit a motion for a resolution, which is in this case, is not all but Mr Špirić. The motion for a resolution shall be considered at the House session unless the House decides that a motion for a resolution should be considered before the Commission. Does Dom feel that the commission should consider this resolution first? 124 Who's in favour of such a proposal? - 7 Who is against this proposal? - 2,3.4 I agree that this position will go to the commission or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2031	Can I help you?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2032	The vote is over.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2033	I'm not changing the course of voting.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2034	You can't discuss the point at all, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2035	Let me help you out a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2036	You can help later, because it's already point 25. He's going for a match.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2037	Let's get right on it. He can go to the board, we can solve the problem. If you agree to go on board and I'll tell you why. Here's what I'm going to say for.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2038	Here's the deal, and he'll go to the board. There's no explanation. Sit down, Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2039	Can I have a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2040	I mean, you're a member of the College, you can get the word, but there's no procedural logic that you're talking about right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2041	I'm not asking him to return the vote, the vote was voted as it was voted. We agreed to go to the commission. But the Rules of Procedure are clear. I'm just doing efficiency and those who work on resolutions. It's the right of the delegates to submit their resolution to the House. Home can accept it or reject it, because this is such a simple resolution that it's only a month's worth of time that they, those populations that are concerned, are losing to efficiency. In that sense, I was 125 against going on board, because I believe there's nothing in it disputed, that this home could not adopt without a commission, only for those reasons.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2042	Thank you. I would just remind myself that I have read all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and I do not think it is a dispute or a vote, or the acceptance of the College to agree on this issue immediately, informs, etc. So we didn't vote on the content of the resolution, we just voted on a procedure that, I believe, will be over soon. Ad.25. The motion for a resolution on the health policy of all BiH citizens is similar to the procedure. Who's to send this to the committee in charge? Thank you. Who's against it? There's no one here. I'm on it. Excuse my colleague Špirić 12 for – 1 against. I also find that there is a necessary entity majority. This is the decision of the House to refer this to the competent commission, to be perfectly clear about the Constitutional and Legal Commission, because it has the powers of human rights. So now, there may be different interpretations. I'm pleased to find out. And there's another one. I'm pleased to say that we're going to the 26th point of the agenda. Ad.26. The report on the Commission's work on financial and administrative affairs at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly reminds us, it is about the obligation of all committees. Let this example of this commission remind some commissions that have not yet done so. You've received a report from the committee responsible. Is anyone answering for a word? He's taking his word for it. Mr. Spahić to the general enthusiasm of all present.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2043	Okay. This little mini golf is great and I'm glad Tokić learned and to practice to carry games, that's very good. To my general enthusiasm, I took my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2044	I'd like you to take the floor specifically for the record.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2045	So now we've evened 1:1. Now we can talk. One, I'd like to say that's a good thing that Mr. 126 is.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2046	kolega Spahić, I would really warn you, there is no equalization. Please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2047	And there isn't. Okay, then it's 2-1. I would now like to say that it is very important that today we take note of the commission led by Mr Ivanković, because there has been a great deal of effort. I had a chance to follow up on this work at first, and now I'd like to ask Mr. Ivanković about this commission. I support what you would say, I support how you like this report. Now I'd like to know one fact about the work of this committee. Is the Commission, given that today is March 7th, so I am taking the opportunity to congratulate all dear mothers, sisters and women on March 8th in Parliament and everyone else, who celebrate this international holiday and the gentleman.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2048	Please have an official notice to observe the agenda. I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2049	That makes me happy. I finally got a warning. I would now ask Mr Ivanković to answer me in a technical way very clearly and precisely. What has happened is that the Finance Commission has until 7 March 2002 the possibility to report on its work, and in its jurisdiction there is an explicit concern for BiH's budget. This is in the description of the Commission's affairs, and the commission I chair has an absolute problem and I want to say it in front of the House cannot move on one issue called the constitutional-legal law on the budget and the implementation of the BiH budget. I wouldn't want it to remain a problem that's closed between the commission and the Dom. I just want to make it public and ask Mr Ivanković to join in his efforts in accordance with his powers and business matter of the work of this committee, and we are unblocking the budget process.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-21-0.u2050	I ask you to take your place. You had a discussion that had no contact with this agenda point. I would ask you, indeed, to let me Spahić with all your willingness to say that this kind of communication is done before, later in breaks and that you do not abuse the pay phone. There have been conditions, unless there is someone to discuss the agenda point, to vote on this, and of course, Mr Ivanković, if he wishes, can answer in private to Mr Spahić. 127 Who is in favour of accepting the report on the work of the Commission on Financial and Administrative Affairs of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly? Do you mind? I am pleased to see that this part of the agenda is over. The next session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is March 21st. Please plan your time. All chairmans of the committee to make timely efforts to make this next session of the House as a matter of fact... Thanks again. The seat is closed at 3:45.
