ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6377	Gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 22nd session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to the MPs, the meeting was called: the chairmans and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, OSCE and other international institutions, who regularly follow our home. In addition to members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers attend and chair the House of Peoples in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I welcome them all on your behalf. Gentlemen, honored guests, only one item of the agenda has been proposed for today's session, which is Ad.1. Approving the appointment of the Chair of the Council of Ministers and Ministers and Deputy Ministers, you have received a written draft agenda. I hope there is no need to debate the agenda, but we need to open a question about it. Is anyone answering for the agenda word? Mr. Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6378	Dear President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, at this important moment for the BiH state of its citizens, its people, it seems to me to be an inevitable need for us to discuss a very important topic for the lives of citizens and members of the people of BiH and the BiH state itself. It is about implementing the Constitutional Court's decision on the consistency of the people in the entire territory of BiH and the equality of the people. You know we need to align the entity's decisions with that. I believe that these should be the principles on which this Dayton Agreement rests, which we have all accepted, by which we live and by which we support and by which we will today choose a new Council of Ministers. I believe it is necessary for this House of Representatives to discuss the issue, to further potentiate the equality of the people of the entire BiH territory, and to adopt a resolution on the equality of the people of BiH after the debate. Maybe some people don't care. I think it seems important, that it is important, that it is essential for the BiH state, its further character and destiny and the position of the people in it. I, unlike some, see things differently. I want the result of the implementation of this decision to be the full constitutionality and equality of the people in the entire BiH territory. I don't want the result of these changes to be cosmetics. I cannot do this as a politician or as a human or as a citizen, so 2 I think it would be good for us to send one message, that we want the people of BiH to be truly equal in all BiH territory. I wouldn't politicize there. I'm not going to talk about the details, and I don't think this debate of ours should talk about the details inside of how it should be in entities. In my opinion, I think, what we can agree on, we should agree that all the peoples in this state of BiH have an equal, equal status. I am hereby free to propose a resolution if the House of Representatives accepts to discuss this issue today. I say, for me, it's also a fate issue and it's my political programme, my political action programme in this coming time and pre-election, and also after the election if I deal with politics. Also, if some do not consider it necessary now, I am willing to be a special session of the House of Representatives, a thematic dedication. You know, you hear them talking, there's some talking. I don't think this is an exclusive topic for us or for those who negotiate. I think this is a subject that deserves to be found in a home like this, so if it needs to be wider. I must remind you of these fateful questions for every country for every nation are even resolved in the referendum and much more harmless issues are discussed in the referendum. So, I think this is very important and inevitable, and I would like to ask, here are my fellow MPs to plead and accept that this item should be placed on the agenda, or if it doesn't pass, I will insist again at the next session, or there will be a special session, and I have a resolution prepared, so depending on it, if this is discussed today, I am willing to share that resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6379	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for word? Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6380	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Honored Chairman, members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, dear guests, precisely on the waves of this kind of reflection that my colleague Ljubić made, this morning the SDP Parliament Club discussed this fundamental political issue of harmonising entity constitutions with the BiH Constitution and implementing a decision by the BiH Constitutional Court. Knowing well that talks are under way with eight BiH political leaders about agreeing and reaching a final solution. Which means we feel the need for the BiH Parliament to be unable to remain an exception from this process. In this regard, we have proposed and we propose today in coordination with this proposal by the chairman, Mr Ljubić, that a thematic session, a joint session and the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives be organised immediately in the next 15 days, which would discuss the fundamental settings and principles of the alignment and implementation of the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH. In view of one of the most important political issues in the current year 2002 and from the point of view of the dynamics already under way, we think it is necessary for the House of Representatives to invite the House of People to consider the principles on which the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision is based and the dynamics of the implementation of this Constitutional Court decision. This is, at the same time, the SDP's proposal, and we propose that in the next 15 days, the thematic session of both houses of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly be organised. Thank you. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6381	Mr. Borić is answering for his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6382	The SDA MPs' club believes that this proposal, Mr Ljubić, deserves attention and, absolutely, stands at the view that this first-class political issue, which should be treated in this parliament. I would also take the opportunity to warn the Council of Ministers here, which, unfortunately, we often don't have the opportunity to see in full, so this really isn't any ugly, but I would ask that you stay here until the end, when we couldn't, when we were having a debate about the work of the Council of Ministers, so at least today when we're preparing for a new venture with the new government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6383	Thank you. Mr. Bilbija, then Mr. Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6384	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, the Honorable Presidency, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, respected guests, the club whose president I am, has always been for co-operation and democratic debate in this house. Given that we have prepared ourselves in one way for this session today, the club's proposal is that we leave this issue proposed by Mr Ljubić for the next session, and to agree in the meantime whether it will be a session of both homes, to prepare ourselves in one way for this debate to be of quality, and not now may we enter into the debate if we accept, talk for several hours, and I doubt that at some point we will reach appropriate conclusions, or take the relevant resolutions to a shortcut. With this, the Club proposes that we leave this for one of the next sessions to adequately prepare and arrange and hold a session, whether a plenary session of both homes, whether a session of the House of Representatives, but we will discuss it in a business and constitutional manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6385	Thank you, Mr. Bilbija. Mr. Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6386	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of MPs, esteemed members of the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community and the media. The HDZ Representatives Club supports Mr Ljubić's proposal and we believe that it should be included in today's agenda in today's session. We certainly do not argue with the House of Peoples to discuss, but we believe that the House of Representatives deserves and has an obligation to dispel such important matter as this concerning constitutional changes and the establishment of the consistency and sovereignty of all three peoples in its entire space. There were suggestions here, next session, when it's next. The next one could be in the fall. Therefore, we believe that this session and how it should be in the form of a resolution proposed by Mr Ljubić, I think that it should be dislocated and that it is indicative without going into details just so that the House of Representatives sends a message that we want to move on with BiH and what kind of BiH we want. 4 Therefore, the BiH Council of Representatives supports putting the agenda item on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6387	Thank you, Mr. Grabovac. Mr. Mijatović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6388	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished guests, fellow MPs, we have received this agenda. It is not unusual when the agenda is extended at the session itself. However, in my opinion, we are learning democracy, so as we learn, I would like to see one difference together. Parliaments everywhere in the world, democratic parliaments, are being established on the basis of the political will of parties and it is more of a party parliamentary democracy. However, it is really necessary to distinguish Parliament's work from a multi-party parliamentary democracy, as it is often used in the interests of multi-party parliamentary democracy by speakers. I'm not gonna argue right, on the contrary, but I think this proposal is going that way. You know why? It is indicative that two executives are coming out and looking for an extension of the agenda with such a significant agenda point. Even please, it's offered to get out of the pocket of the resolution that we're supposed to be raving about today. Well, gentlemen, let me remind you of something. Who has returned to you, especially as our leaders here, not to mention the exact name of your dysfunctions to put it into normal parliamentary procedure. If you've been banned, feel free to report it and try to defend it if necessary. But the hasty, in which you want to do it, by asking such a significant question, in such an unserious way, I would say it does not point to well-meaning. Because now we should bid here, on the basis of the outset for the assembly speaker who is for the constitutionality of the people in the whole of BiH, and as who is not, or it turns out that you as proposing therefore because you appeared in such a way for this assembly speaker you are more than someone else. I think that on these issues we should not compete in such a way, but since it is also in your words a serious problem, that in a serious way put it on the agenda. Because don't get me wrong, but we, I think, survived the time when the declarations, resolutions, etc. were withdrawn from the pocket. and unnecessarily raising political tensions in BiH. All of this needs to be very reasonable, prudent, therefore, in accordance with the parliamentary procedure to talk and let it into normal parliamentary procedure and here's to being explicit, I'm not against, I'm against expanding the agenda with such a serious topic in this way, I'm an MP. I have no objection that the BiH Parliament as the largest legislative body on this is having a discussion as I said in some serious form, etc. I don't think they're even the ones who got the job. The Constitutional Court's decision is clear. She's binding and, as far as I know, she's in the right places and she's running that procedure, so I hope, just as she should, and she deserves such a serious subject.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6389	Mariofil Ljubić replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6390	It's not a replica. I said this is the political program I stand for. This is a fateful question. I, as a representative of the people, as a man who has some electoral will and I want to say about it here. It's unserious if we're not gonna tell you in a serious place about serious issues. I don't think we're going to be running some big polemics and big bloats here. 5 I will only ask if we are ready to support the principles of the BiH Constitution. He's right here. If someone is not ready to support the principles of the BiH Constitution, the equality of the peoples, that is to say, but I don't see any of them here. I don't see, I'm telling you, I'm not ready to participate in any conversations all the time, but not to inform anyone what I'm talking about. I'm here to say that you all ask me, which platform you're up for when you go on a date with our president, Petrič. I want everyone to say it. What if I were someone to comment on, someone to say? This is a question where I can't bid, I can't trade. If you don't want a round in one place, you want a kilo on the other. This is the question of whether we will be constitutional, and then let the relevant parliaments determine how it is. I'm not saying, I'm saying, I don't want to talk about details here. You all know what I mean. That's what we're going to do with the entity parliaments. Let them take their responsibility. But I think we take our part of responsibility to say whether we are ready to work on the provisions and principles of the BiH Constitution, which says that BiH is the state of the three constituent nations of Bođnjak, Hrvat, Srbin and other citizens living in it. I just think it should be the result of the work and our resolution. Don't say this isn't serious. Maybe in 20 days it won't be necessary to discuss this matter. That's why I think it's very important to talk, if today or these days, because I say, don't, I'm not here to necessitate with this question. I say, I'm not ready to take on such a huge responsibility for BiH without sharing it with anyone. I told you once again, these are questions that are even being discussed in the referendum.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6391	Thank you. Mr. Avdić, incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6392	I don't think the BiH Parliamentary Assembly can even remain silent and we can't observe what's happening from the aspect of agreeing the entity constitutions and implementing the Constitutional Court's decision on the equality and constitutionality of the people on the entire territory of BiH. In that sense, I was quite clear. In general, it is not possible to observe the relationship, the approach and fellow Ljubić and me. I've made myself perfectly clear and I repeat. It's not a new idea at all. From a month ago, two days ago, there was an initiative in the College. So, on behalf of the SDP Club, we are asking that, in the next 15 days, the corresponding dynamics of the completion of the talks with Mr. Petrič, the High Representative, be organised the thematic session of the House of Representatives, inviting the House of Peoples to join and discuss the principles, fundamental settings, agreed positions of eight political leaders from BiH, and in this context to include the BiH Parliament in considering and simply harmonising entity constitutions with the BiH Constitution. I think it's a correct proposal and everything else would be a kind of improvisation act or pre-election campaign that today at the House of Representatives' meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6393	Mr. Cuplow.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6394	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members, dear guests, of course, that the Party for BiH supports the debate on such an important issue, but we cannot help but think that at first, which has a broader connotation at all levels of this country is with a lot of delays as a proposal from the College of this Parliament to be placed on the agenda. There's still time, but I'm sorry, I think we should've been able to talk about this a lot earlier. It is a sad fact that we should even discuss the decision of the 6th Constitutional Court that is binding. But it's the truth of Bosnia. Unfortunately, I think this parliament too must be significantly summed up in all this. A group of politicians, who are taking part in the negotiations on this topic, is doing a significant job, but this does not free Parliament and one and the other from own contribution, as the country's largest body on such a significant problem. Please, right now, no matter what we all are and how we're addressed to this problem, I don't think it's appropriate for us to enter into this fissure. The agenda is set. I do not dispute the right to try to extend it, but such a significant question requires, of course, a special session of this Parliament, which can be scheduled within a very short time. It's not the first time we have two sessions at a short time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6395	According to the Rules of Procedure, you know how to handle the resolution. Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6396	Dear gentlemen, members of the Presidency, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers and distinguished guests, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, in our country, if it can be no other way, then let it go in order and the fact is that the gentlemen of the College have come before us and themselves, I say and prepared ourselves for this session to pass in one atmosphere, where we are going to solve and solve one very important issue, it is the choice of the Council of Ministers, and then you come here to tell us that you have changed your mind and you start playing each one in your instrument, and I can tell you that this is not a good message at all, and this is happening from the session, it was regular, it was less or more important, but it happens. I don't see any reason, which could be called well-intentioned, except for the desire for a more complicated situation, that today the agenda is being expanded, at any point, when we agreed, explicitly that it would be one point, and when the public found out much earlier. Secondly, you want gentlemen to contribute, which complicates and makes it even more complicated. Don't do that. Take the order we agreed on, because in this situation, when a solution is sought, most favourably no one has asked for the participation of the BiH Parliament, which is a matter for themselves. That's the question. But no one asked for the high representative's office to do that. The conversation is being held with the six-seven or eight-party leaders. We don't know the results. At the end of the day, gentlemen, they left high from Kozara and went down to Sarajevo. I don't know how far he'll get on his journey, but the fact is that the result is that we don't know and it's not fair to hit him. We can talk when we already have something like a solid proposal. How much information is available to the public of the proposal is still missing or not agreed on about which we could state our position, which I do not dispute that we can tell our own TV about, but what to tell our own TV about. No one's asking for that attitude. Furthermore, so much BiH within itself is complicated and even neighbours are helping us, neighbouring countries to complicate our situation, meddling in BiH's internal affairs, and now we're buying a story like that and there's a story of that kind opening up here. I invite you today to conduct today with dignity and arguments a debate on the agenda that has been established. Unfortunately, if we have learned today that three members of the College did not agree on the agenda. You were supposed to show us at the beginning of the session. I'm asking you to hold a session the way you opened it, it's with the agenda that you claim to be in agreement and not me.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6397	Thank you. Mr. Bjelobrk. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6398	Dear ladies, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I want to express my little satisfaction that in all the discussions I have heard a common m... it is that we need an additional debate on the topic of implementing the Constitutional Court's decision. Also, I want to give you my pleasure after my conversation with my kolegij, since I launched this same initiative in June of last year. And that's what we agreed, that according to the Rules of Procedure, I should come to the conclusion that it should be the subject of the first next session. I have, carefully listening to used words, intonations. I don't think anyone's arguing that we're going to need this House at first. Maybe, not perhaps, but we differ in dynamicizing the problem. I'm the only thing I know is that after everything, we're wasting our resources incredibly well. We're incredibly good at wasting our time. On behalf of all the principles of patience, tolerance, consideration of all this, therefore, when I have already managed to endure eight months, I propose that we work on the agenda prepared for this session and, within a very short period of time, two weeks prepare a serious debate in the most rational configuration, on the subject of the implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision and the responsibility of this Parliament and the possible contribution to bringing the whole process to an end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6399	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6400	Ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, for today's session, we have initially predicted with one item of the agenda and achieved full agreement, but democratic practice certainly allows us to discuss both the amendments to the agenda and other issues and I think the initiative, launched by Mr Mario Ljubić, is very important and I support it. I'd like to say before that, next. First, something that implies, therefore, Mr Ljubić performed here both as a politician and as a representative of the people. I would ask the House of Representatives, the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, not to refer to any peoples. We are not representatives of the people here, we are representatives of political parties. We have the House of Peoples and there are representatives of the people. Two, we are committed and signed to respect the BiH Constitution and I guess that is understood. Number three, ladies and gentlemen, this is about implementing the Constitutional Court decisions and changing the entity constitutions, not the BiH Constitution. However, this does not mean that the BiH Parliament should not have a debate on this very important issue for the future of BiH and I say again, I support this initiative to open up at first in this parliament. I appreciate that they've been doing constitutional commissions for the last time. I appreciate what the High Representative is doing with the leaders of political parties. They are likely to have a mandate to do so in implementing the Constitutional Court's decision, however, I would really suggest that we prepare one of these serious topics for the first next session of the BiH Parliament and not because it is controversial for the Socijal Democratic Party. Our programming was, were, and will be very clear. In BiH, all nations, all members of the collectiveity are equal and constitutional in each part of 8 BiH. There are no majority and minority nations in BiH. There are no state-of-the-art and no state-of-the-art nations. There are no historical and non-history peoples, each individual, human, citizen, member of a collectiveity called the nation or people is equal to all other peoples and citizens, and that is why this message is for us. For us it may be the content of the resolution and such results of the implementation of the Constitutional Court I expect. So, just for these reasons, we've predicted today a very important job in this House, and that's the Council of Ministers. I suggest, if it is possible for Mr Ljubić to agree that we have this important topic at the next session of our Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6401	Replica Mr. Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6402	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't think you should give a lesson that home does. I have now counted, 14 times Mr. Bogićević mentioned the peoples, the peoples, the peoples, unlike him Mr. Ljubić has not mentioned it several times in the context, when it comes to the consistency of the people. So there's a big difference and we understand when it comes to and the first business change is the addition of the agenda. So I said that the HDZ Representatives' Club is proposing changes and additions to the agenda, in terms of this resolution, and that's a complete first and you don't need to lecture anyone here, which is our task, which is our obligation, we know that well. We know who chose us, we know who we answer to. Therefore, it is perfectly clear, please choose to place the agenda item, vote or vote in favour or against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6403	Thank you. It's MP Mirjanić's turn. I ask Mr. Ljubić to lead the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6404	And have Mr. Lozančić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6405	Gentlemen, members of the Presidency, MPs, guests, here are asked a few questions which, apparently, need to be answered. The motion for this resolution was not discussed at a session of the House of Representatives. I have found out about the motion for a resolution like you gentlemen MPs at the beginning of this session. There was no problem with the agenda. I remind you, the agenda for today's session has been accepted by the Extended College of the House of Representatives, who, by the members of the College and, more simply, by the Watch Tower College, is made up of all club heads. That's what we agreed. We agreed that today there should be one item on the agenda and I, as well as most MPs, was surprised. Why today we elaborate this question, and if the Rules of Procedure say three minutes, without getting into the essence of the question. We've already had a debate about the Constitutional Court's decision. Let me remind you, the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision is not in the jurisdiction of this home and this assembly, but of the entity's assembly. Of course, we can take political status through an act like the resolution. But, gentlemen, we don't have the text resolution. We technically can't put the resolution on the agenda. The promoter would now be obliged to share with us the text of the resolution. We had a 21st session this morning, a 21st session. If the promoter thought, then he could share the text of the resolution, read the resolution. It's not done. We simply can't discuss such an important issue for this country to rout ad-hoc. Niko of us have consulted his constituents, citizens, or consulted parties. We're not ready for this debate today. We don't have information except for the heads of the party, which is agreed or not agreed with the High 9 representatives. Discussions on this issue are under the auspices of the High Representative. We're not notified. There are no conditions for discussing this issue today. Which one of us is ready today? Niko. So it's obvious that if we want to talk about this issue, and it's not a problem, if most people think that we need to brush, why don't we talk about it, but when it's ready. Therefore, it may be the next session or another session and the motion for a resolution may, according to the Rules of Procedure, propose its resolution. I hope I've explained to you the questions I've been asked why my differences in college are different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6406	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ministers, gentlemen of Parliament, I must say that we have no more important questions than we have on the constitutionality of the people and I fully agree with the request for the completion of the agenda, because we, as the House of Representatives elected by the voters, have not received a statement on the Constitutional Court's decision and the possibility to implement the consistency of the people in the whole area, and I do not see any more reasons or priorities than this, which Mr. Vice-President Ljubić has stated here, and I am of the opinion that we should declare that we do not have to spread the debate and enter here with questions whether this is serious or not serious. We have nothing more serious than the constitutionality of the people that will determine both the future and the peoples and BiH, and I fully support the request to supplement the agenda, and it is very important, and since we have not yet had any jokes or talks through the High Representative of the Eight Parties. I think the replacement of the Council of Ministers' chairman may even be a second item of the agenda in relation to this issue that is ahead of us.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6407	Thank you, Mr. Lozančić. Chairman of the Council of Ministers Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija Article 139 d. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6408	Mr. Chairman, esteemed fellow MPs - MPs, I have reported in accordance with Article 139.d) so I said to the chairman to intervene to try to get out of this situation that we have entered and I believe that all of us who have spoken here have spoken with good intentions and I do not see that there is any difference between us at all in what Mr. Ljubić has said to the extent that he said everything, what he wanted. I'm sure we could agree on that. Namely, I'm one of the people who participates in these famous conversations, which are being held. Mr. Ljubić is also a man who participates in these talks and probably also needs to say something. Now I realize that Mr. Zubak, too, as a participant in these conversations, has more people involved. There's a third of us, Mr. Tošić here. However, we came here on, Mr. Bogić, you confused me, made me a European voice. So Mr. Ljubić did and achieved what he wanted. This has been discussed and this is problematic. It's clear to all of us that things are very important to these things. However, I would like to remind you, under Rule 121 of your Rules of Procedure, attitude 1 is very clear on what is done with the resolution. The House can express its position on all relevant political issues, social problems and needs and establish policy guidelines by means of a resolution. So you can establish the policy guidelines that will be implemented, I read: the BiH Presidency, the BiH Council of Ministers or other BiH institutions. What we're talking about right now is not in the direction of implementing 10 of these institutions that are listed here, which are the subject of the resolution. However, this does not in any way mean that we do not need and we cannot reach a resolution and that Parliament is expressing its position on all of this. Perhaps it is good that after all that is said, because this decision by the Constitutional Court on the constitutionality of the people of BiH is quite an old decision. It's not a decision that's happened since the last session of the Parliamentary Assembly, so she's surprised us now. However, on the other hand, I would like to say that I fully understand people who may need to be for constitutionality today, although at the time when the Constitutional Court's decision on constitutionality was made is through their representatives not them, but representatives of the political party who, now I do not understand Mr. Lubić said that he presented this and HDZ supported it. Okay, then I'm talking to HDZ. So, it's not HDZ and HDZ just backed it up. Yes, as those judges who were against the Constitutional Court's decision on constitutionality, which was also delegated by HDZ, had nothing to do with HDZ... Mr Grabovac, so I understand the need of some people to talk today about constitutionality and the way they say it today, but I would suggest, my proposal. I think here, with all due respect, every session can be handled procedurally and businessly, any one of them. There's no need. I know there are a lot of important things in this country. There is no need for this session to end as we have set out, even if it does not begin as we have agreed, to hear the exposés of the chairman, the appointed mandate of the Council of Ministers, because indeed, to end it and to do what we met for. Also, I think there is no reason, if there is a willingness and consensus in the College that the Parliamentary Assembly is scheduled with this agenda item in accordance with Rule 121 of the Rules of Procedure which discusses resolutions. There's no reason not to. I would just ask you, if you think you have an impact on what is happening now, that this should be done soon, on Monday, Tuesday, and not for fifteen days, because I remind you that the entity assemblies have their dynamics and those in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision will realize that dynamic because, I remind you, the elections are 5.10 and we need to end this whole process, at the latest for the next 15 days, and if you want Parliament to talk about having an impact on what is happening now, it would be good to do so over the next week. My suggestion is to approach this agenda today. My proposal is that the motions for a resolution in the College, if they can access the appointment of a new session to discuss it. And finally let me tell you, yesterday morning in Boegrad, five people signed a document with a witness present. They signed a document called -- the initial basis for redecorating relations between Serbia and Montenegro. Yesterday morning, a chapter in history closed and a new chapter opened. In this document, five people with one witness signed and pledged to offer their congregations by June of this year an appropriate constitutional charter to be ratified there. It also said that by the end of this year a new constitution of the new state union and the two states would be established. Niko one asked how they got the right to do that. They have done so with great awareness and should be congratulated on the sense of strength and historical responsibility that a process in this region ends and a new chapter opens. A new chapter of co-operation among countries that used to be one country and to move on to regional integration. I would therefore ask you once again to still be aware today that this country and this region have become significantly different in the last 48 hours, significantly different. And we have to turn to each other a lot more and turn to each other a lot more so that all together or succeed or all together fail. We can all go together. So I ask you once again on behalf of the Council of Ministers to let us go on the agenda as agreed, and we are ready to participate in every conversation. And I am as the head of a political party 11 ready before this Parliament whenever you invite me to come and as a guest if I have to say what we are talking about and what we are doing and everything we do with full consciousness and responsibility about doing the best to make this country a country, one country with three equal nations who are political owners 1:1 in the entire territory of this country together with 4 million unhappy people who are largely not yet the owners of anything, let alone these whole countries 1:1. I'd like to ask you, I won't replicate to anyone, I can see they're jumping your hands, I won't replicate to anyone. All in advance, Mr. Titan, I've whispered to what you're about to replicate.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6409	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. A really big push for you as chairman today to elect a new chairman, to... Mr. Ljubić, incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6410	It is not an incorrect allegation that I generally very often agree with the chairman of the Council of Ministers and this is the last thing he said about me that should be contained in the resolution. That's enough for me. But I don't want this to get the impression that this is some kind of bidding and this is a mining. Believe me, I accept myself as guilty of not insisting on this a month ago. But I think it's a human mistake, and human beings are admitted to a mistake and correct it and ask for it. I'm not unreasonable that I should be to do this today. First of all, don't think that my goals are to mince the Council of Ministers' election today. I think these representatives of the five of us are going to help this council of ministers choose. No, it's our goal, so you know we've been very constructive, it's a little too much to say the most constructive by supporting the Council of Ministers' projects. And because we respect you as people, we prefer that a slightly different reflection of political will is this council of ministers. But I can't be like this against the people I'm looking at at the Council of Ministers. So don't get it, it's really not my intention to make it go away. But I'm saying I'm aware that this is still a serious question, this last line Mr. Lagumdžija said to me is quite enough to be. So the only thing I do is, here's my club I see it's a little tighter than me, so maybe I'd suggest when after this maybe a five-minute break. I say what Mr. Lagumdžija said, I think it should be delayed if it's delayed during the next week. I think it's our debt in all these changes. Let me say this one sentence so that those who have their responsibilities as representatives of entities can do what they think we should do, and we can do what we think we should do. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6411	Thank you. Sir. Replica, here you go, Mr. Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6412	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament. I don't think Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman of Mr. Lagumdžija, should hold us in line with what the HDZ club should do and how it works. He knows exactly what to do and how to act. So we thank you for the SDP's instructions and we don't want to accept them, let me say 12 right now. When it comes to this, we have been very clear and I call on Article 50 of Article 50 and Article 121, and that the vote on this item of the agenda to amend and supplement the agenda points, and if you have a good will, you can conclude that you will be discussing at one of the next sessions and I think it is wise for you to get over it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6413	Thank you, Mr. Grabovac. Is there any more replicas? If he doesn't, then. Is it a replica or an incorrect quote or a regular debate? Then Mr. Amidžić, Mr. Đedović, let's take the turn.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6414	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, honored guests you know I am not a man of replica. Otherwise, I've never replicated and I don't like it. So I came forward to discuss the proposed agenda, the initiative to supplement it. In order to make two findings and one proposal, I need to point out one previous question. Be careful, I, as a representative in this parliament, who works at the HDZ Club of Bosnia and Herzegovina, understand my special responsibility together with Mr Ljubić and these other people on these issues that Mr Ljubić has applied for the agenda. I ask you to understand that as well as the wish of the election MPs to discuss the most important issue for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Let this debate in this House be a distance from the political party leaders' talks, so if you want a distance from HDZ representatives, maybe in those talks. Please, it is our right to express our opinion on this and we are looking for this political space, because please see all these discussions mostly go beyond Parliament and outside of the representatives legally elected in the elections. That's one momentary. If we go to the analogy of those five people in Belgrade and there, gentlemen have been signed by the presidents of the states, the republic, the representatives of the authorities elected, and are not in office of the president of political parties. I would really like Mr Lagumdžija to take part in those talks when he participates in this, above all, and as the chairman of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because this first concerns Bosnia and Herzegovina, not only as a representative of one political option. So that's our desire to open this debate. Secondly, it is a rare opportunity, let's almost impossible in Bosnia and Herzegovina to find all three members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency in one day a full council of ministers headed by their chairman and 100% the presence of the parliament and the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina, voters and representatives of the international community. Well, could Mr. Ljubić miss out on the point and suggest one such debate at a gathering like this? And it's a shame that this rally isn't happening now. Please forgive even the chairman of the House of the Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Well, you don't have anyone else in Bosnia and Herzegovina more important on these issues. So if we're on that line that we're going to discuss this, I suggest that we add this to the second item of the agenda, we interrupt the session after the first one, and I think we'll be in this first one, that we'll be in this first one whether it's constructive and parliamentary to say it's a time of 7 or 10 days of follow-up and say that we'll all be on the sequel. That we will continue to be all and come to a resolution that will only strengthen your efforts in these talks. We just want to give you additional weapons in the fight for funds whether the political means are in battle for what we need to do at the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision. 13 According to this I end up asking you to understand this, meaning as a desire to complete the agenda, there is also a possibility that it may be a special session. But if it's going to be next without timing, then it's not a serious session if all the talks are going to end before that session, then it doesn't make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6415	Thank you. Slowly, Mr. Grabovac, so, sir, is it a replica, a false quote or a debate? Mr. Grabov, are you looking for a break or not? Now or not. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6416	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break until the Alliance is settled.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6417	All right, you'll get a break to settle. I'll see you in 10 minutes. [[/pause 10 minutes.]] Mr. Đedović asked for a word. Here you go, Mr. Đedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6418	Let him explain. The explanation of Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6419	Please, I'm in charge of the session, Mr. Đedović. If you ask for a word, you'll get it after that as the club chief. It's not a problem. You didn't ask.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6420	Dear members of the Presidency, the Honorable Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, respected colleagues, dear journalists. I didn't come to the pre-election political rally. I will not say what I and the party think about the consistency of the people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I came here to discuss the Council of Ministers. The idea of Mr. Honorable Marifil Ljubić is quite in place, but she technically today, as far as I understand things, is not feasible. So the two facts here are undeniable. There's no one in the O.R. who doesn't think it's something to talk about, and it's undeniable that it's technically impossible to talk about. Let us do some things in a plan, and I ask that we do not discuss this further, because I do not believe that we will find out anything new, and to conclude what is the deadline when it is technically possible for us to discuss it and that it is our solution and to move on. Gentlemen came to finish this part of the job, so if it's due tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, it doesn't matter if it's so important we have nothing to ask during the time. We'll sit down and work. But I'm asking you to do what we agreed today. I'm thanking you. So I'm not challenging this at all. Even Mr. Ljubić is willing to conclude that if we talk. That's how I understood Ljubić. So we have full consent, let's verify it with a conclusion and move on. I'm thanking you. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6421	Thank you, Mr. Butović. I'm sorry, Mr. Grabovac. Here you go, Mr. Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6422	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the MPs, since the HDZ Representatives Club asked for a break, then I expected that we would immediately give the argument at the very beginning. But good. The HDZ Representatives' Club proposes that because it called for Article 50. The Rules of Procedure propose to include the item of the agenda today, by proposing to Mr Ljubić too, means that all MPs should be included, to elect the Council of Ministers and to suspend the session and continue within a short period of 10 days, or within 10 days. It means she's in that band. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6423	Thank you. Mr. Buturović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6424	My koleginica and colleagues, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Chairman, I would only come up with one more proposal. I absolutely agree, respecting all the seriousness of the situation and the moment we are in, supporting this proposal to discuss this issue at one of the next sessions, and within 10-15 days, I would only suggest that the High Representative, Mr Volfgang Petrič, also officially interpreting the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, be invited to this session. Because it's a very serious matter to listen to the High Representative as well. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6425	Thank you, Mr. Stokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6426	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, esteemed guests. Unfortunately, we've lost a lot of time on the agenda. Apparently, the pre-election campaign has already begun to be used by some of the speakers to promote some of their political programmes. But that's democracy, too. We have said many times today about learning democracy, but we still need to respect ourselves and everyone here present. We've got some things to figure out. The Rules of Procedure must be respected if we are to do what is right. Simply according to the Rules of Procedure, there is no possibility of putting this item on the agenda today. There is a possibility to propose a new agenda item during the session. However, if this item of the agenda is the adoption of a resolution, and I understand that it is precisely required here today, it is impossible because the text of the resolution is necessary to deliver before the MPs to meet to prepare themselves and then only to make themselves known about the resolution. So this variant of being a point for today's session to end, I think it's the same thing as breaking the Rules of Procedure. I therefore think that the chairman should have found that at the very beginning of the agreement on the agenda it is envisaged, as far as I remember a much shorter time and we should have stopped this before, to realize that this is businessly impossible, and certainly not to run away from this topic, although I think that the Constitutional Court did not address the debate on the consistency of the people at this address 15, that is to say, the implementation of his decision on the constitutionality of the people in the territory of the whole of BiH, but the ethnic parliaments. And they're those bodies that need to make decisions. But we can make a resolution, we can take our political stance on it, and we need it. It is not necessary to run away from this, but the Rules of Procedure should be respected and this serious topic should be prepared seriously for the debate here to be right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6427	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for word? No, I don't. Gentlemen, allow me to visit the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 47(2), which reads as follows: - Calls for the House meeting shall be sent to Members 10 days before the scheduled session unless otherwise prescribed by these Rules of Procedure. An invitation for today's session, gentlemen, was sent to the assembly on the day that the presidency appointed Mr. Mikerević as chairman. The same day. Agendas, materials prepared for the session, although the minutes of the previous session are delivered to MPs together with a call for a session. So 10 days before the session starts, the material for the session is delivered. That means, if someone wanted to propose a resolution, then they should have proposed a resolution formally in the process so that 10 days before this session they would deliver the resolution to the Members. It is not only a formal question, but it is a matter of equality or MPs that they can participate in the debate, as some MPs may be prepared, others are not. I remind you of Section 3. - in urgent cases and at the request of at least 10 Members of the Vice-President or, under his own decision, the Chair may convene a meeting within 10 days. In that case, the session agenda may be proposed during its maintenance. Gentlemen, no business opportunities have been met to put this resolution on the agenda today. Here's another break-in. We, let me, I'll finish, you're asking to be included in the agenda resolutions. Give the text of the resolution prepared to be shared with MPs. Do you have it? Typed on a machine and signed. No, it has to be neatly prepared. It can't be written by hand. You don't. So please, allow me. I ask you if you want us to respect the Rules of Procedure has a solution. If you wish to respect the Rules of Procedure, write down the text of the resolution and if you wish to refer to Article 47(3), it may be in that version within 10 days and a shorter session. And that's the respect of the Rules of Procedure, and you have the right to have no one dispute that right. Here you go, Mr. Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6428	Mr. Chairman, I remind you of Article 50(1). - at the beginning of the session each representative, as well as any authorised promoter, shall have the right to request the abandonment of any optional item and to propose a new one. I don't need to read any more. With this article 47, which you are talking about, is quite another thing and I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure and respect the article of the 50th of the Rules of Procedure and, of course, put it to the vote. The proposal of the HDZ Representatives Club was to include the item on the agenda, and that within 10 days, it means to interrupt the session and to continue the session on the resolution proposed by Mr Ljubić. Therefore, everything is in line with the Rules of Procedure and I am 16 telling you that you do not have the right to Article 47(2) that speaks of something quite different than this. It means he's okay, but there's a possibility in the course of the session itself, but at the beginning of the session what's been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6429	Mr. Grabovac, one question. You are proposing to the agenda text resolution. Did you deliver the text resolution to the MPs? I ask you to deliver to me as chairman the text of the resolution. Don't you have any?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6430	Mr. Chairman, they're going to see you before the Samaritans do. If you adopt this item of the agenda as the Council of Ministers is elected, the resolution point will be divided. And if we were to share and make fools, I don't think that can work. So I suggest this part.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6431	Thank you. Who's asking for a word? Mr. Banjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6432	I have a question. Let Mr. Miro come back, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6433	Mr. Grabovac, you have your word. Please, I'm in charge of the session. Here you go, Mr. Grabovac. You stayed behind the pay phone. Answer, Mr. L, the killer, will get the word after you. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6434	The resolution proposed by Mr Ljubić is about a resolution on the constitutionality, sovereignty of Bosnia and Herzegovina's sovereignty bearers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6435	Mr. Ljubić asked for a word. Here you go, Mr. Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6436	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives. I think we're going the wrong way. Someone here thinks this is a formal question, that this is Mario Ljubić's question. I felt it was my duty, my right to go with the initiative of this resolution to be a resolution of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And if anyone's interested, I can start reading the text. Solidly defined for sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6437	Don't read, Mr. Ljubić. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6438	based on the rights of equality of the people. Should we move on? Don't make sure here with some technical questions, issues of procedure. Here's me bowing to my position to put the agenda item on the table within 10 days. And you can either accept it with your own voice or refuse it. I'll be out again in five days with that attitude. I'll suggest another variant. I might be looking for an extraordinary session. I'm not angry at all if you say by your vote that, against or abstention. There's no reason at all. So don't convince me here anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6439	Thank you. Mr. Banjac asked for a word. I think it's a hoax or a replica. Business opportunity. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6440	Dear gentlemen, please stop torturing us. Explain what you want. What do you want? Define the agenda point as it will be, give a brief explanation why you propose it to me. Please do it. So I ask the Proposer to say briefly that there will be a point, a brief explanation, and can you give it now. Here you go. If you can't, there's nothing to vote on.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6441	Thank you, Mr. Banjac. Mr. Malkić, so I suggest we go slowly to the end. Let Dom plead. In every variant, the House must declare the proposal, Mr. Ljubić. It's not a dispute, it'll come out.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6442	Fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I have one proposal, perhaps there will be an addition to the agenda. It's about the next one. Backwards 4-5 and more meetings of the House of Representatives Mr. Chairman knowingly violates the business provisions of our home. That's what I'm asking for a statement of confidence from the chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6443	Okay. We'll put you to the vote, Mr. Malkić, on your proposal. So we have two suggestions. We have a proposal for Mr. Ljubić to put the motion resolution in the agenda today, if I have misspelled correct me. resolutions on the equality of the people.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6444	Please, with the agenda point, a brief explanation must be given. If you don't, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6445	Please obviously, I'm asking you obviously, please the facts are next. We don't have the text of the resolution, and we don't have an explanation, but if someone's asking to get into the agenda, I have to put it to the vote. I have to put it on and I'll put it to a vote. I ask that the House be made aware of Mr Ljubić's proposal to put in today's agenda today's session, I have written this, the motion for a resolution on the equality of the people. Here you go, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6446	Please, first of all, Article 121, is quite clear how I can propose resolutions. And, Mr. Chairman, I'm asking you to have the College meet and see if the article 121 is respected. The House can express its position on relevant political issues, social problems and establish policy guidelines to be implemented by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, the Council of Ministers and other institutions. Gentlemen, where are your reasons for this species? Don't torture us here, I beg you to do this on purpose to delay the work d can't move to the agenda point to torture us, exhaust us so we can't talk about the election of the chairman's council of ministers, because we have something to say. There's an exposé, there's a need to say something about choices. If you gentlemen have not respected this, don't put it to the vote. You're doing something that's against business.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6447	Thank you. Mr. Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6448	I don't think my colleague Banjac is right when he's talking about this. Wait a minute. He would be right only if the resolution were to discuss the resolution if it were on the table then that resolution would have to have an explanation. Given that the entry into the agenda item is then entirely sufficient is the name to be discussed, and this is what the chairman read, and I am looking for the basis of Article 50 to act on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6449	Only a resolution can under these conditions. If conditions are not met, the resolution could not
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6450	If the agenda item is entered, the resolution will be delivered.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6451	Mr. Mašić. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6452	The biggest problem with this home is that we seem to have a mass of some universal unique interpreters. Is there an authorized person in front of the House to interpret the Rules of Procedure, because we are tired from sitting in session listening to Mr Banjac and Mr Titan and Abdurahman and me and the tenth and twentieth. Is there a person authorized by this home that uniquely interprets the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure that we do not come into these situations please.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6453	A break of 10 minutes for the college meeting. Break 10 minutes. We're going to continue. The session of the House of Representatives was held for the reasons of the questions raised at the session, and we agreed that Mr Avdić would introduce you to the position of the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6454	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, respected members of the Presidency, the College has agreed and is proposing the next exit from this situation. This is a reviewing the need to consider the current situation for the implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision we appreciate that there are a lot of justifications and relevant discussions and requests so that we propose to schedule a session at the next Friday at 11 p.m. on March 22nd at 11 p.m. on Friday to schedule a session on the subject – a debate on the implementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitutional Court Decision on the equality and constitutionality of the people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's one conclusion, I'm asking you two. Appreciating the demands of MP Malkić, who asked for a review of the trust of the chairman of Parliament's House of Representatives, Dr Željko Mirjanić's College, appreciates the need for an explanation and written request to the enlarged College to assess the need for relevance and put that agenda on the next session, namely the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6455	This is a proposal from the College. The debate is over. You asked for a break. Please, we have more suggestions. We have more suggestions. Mr. Grabovac, do you want to repeat the old proposal or do you have a new one? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6456	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the House of Representatives also held a meeting and concluded that, of course, we are asking for a vote on the inclusion of the agenda item in today's session with a proposal to include the agenda item means today's session and, of course, that the election of the Council of Ministers is suspended and continues for up to 10 days. So we did not specify with the exact name – the debate on the course of implementation of 20 Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitutional Court decisions on the consistency of the Bosniak, Croatian, Serbian people and their equality in the whole territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So maybe there's the only difference about the course of implementation and the difference is that we're asking it to be part of this session and to interrupt the session and continue for up to 10 days. So in time to 10 days to be an integral part of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6457	Thank you, Mr. Grabovac. All right. Any other suggestions? There isn't. I put in, we have two proposals, a proposal from the College and a proposal. Here you go, Mr. Buturović. That's a suggestion. Yeah, we usually always invite OHR representatives to all the sessions and, of course, fine. The High Representative will evaluate alone, it's, we can call him, he'll evaluate if he comes. All right. We have two suggestions. We have a proposition. Please, if it suits you Friday, I wouldn't be here, if you could accept it, I wouldn't be causing any trouble. We'll interrupt the session. All right. Gentlemen, we have a proposal from the College and a proposal from the HDZ Club. I'm putting the college's proposal to vote. Who's in? Here you go, Mr. Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6458	Since the Club of Representatives of the HDZ has also made a proposal, as regards today's session, I am asking the Rules of Procedure to vote on the proposal of the Representatives' Club, as it concerns today's session, and yours concerns the session for 5-10 days.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6459	It doesn't matter, Mr. Grabovac. If you think that's important for the result of the vote, then fine. If that means anything to you, we'll satisfy your request. I'm putting on a vote by the HDZ Club proposal. Who's in? I'm asking the service to count the votes. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's being held back? Give me the results of the vote. Thirty-eight present. Vote 11 versus 22, abstention 3. The proposal was not given to the overhalf majority. 21 I would like to put the college's proposal to the vote. Who's in? It's a college proposal. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Please vote it. Who's against it? I'm asking the service to count the votes. Who's being held back? No one please vote results. We need to check the entity vote. Who's from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina for? Who's from Republika Srpska for? Please, we need to repeat the vote. The service couldn't see. Who's from Republika Srpska for? The re-voting service didn't see it. Thank you. Give me the results of the vote. I'd like the results of the vote, please. 38 votes for 27 against 8. Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, for 24, Republika Srpska for 4. He didn't pass by going to the alignment. He's making a proposal for a match. The debate is over. The vote is over. Mr. brkati, we're done here. Well, it's over. He's going to get into college for the three of us. We'll believe we'll find a solution. Gentlemen, let's get to the agenda. I'm asking you to make a statement. Who is for the proposed agenda, which is the approval and appointment of a) the chairman of the Council of Ministers and under b) Ministers and Deputy Ministers, please who is for? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Unanimity. I'd like the results of the vote. Please. I'm sorry. The service failed to count even though I was given the knowledge that it had succeeded. I ask the service to concentrate a little and not to be confused.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6460	There's no vote on the agenda that's agreed. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6461	I know, Mr. Banjac. But we need to confirm by voting for possible misunderstandings. Thank you very much. I'm asking you who's in? Amendments were proposed. Who's in? Did you make it? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Please give the results of the vote. Thank you. 38 MPs voted for, against no one, a abstentioned no one. I find that the proposed agenda has been adopted. Ad. 1.a) Approving the appointment of the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, with the invitation to the session, you have received a decision from the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the appointment of the Chair of the Council of Ministers. Let me read the decision. Sarajevo, February 28, 2002. The Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the House of Representatives. Subject: Delivery of Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency Decision. In addition, we present to you a Decision from the 127th emergency session of the Bureau held on 28 February concerning the appointment of the chairman of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers. It's a decision. The decision to appoint the chairman of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers. Dr Dragan Mikerević is appointed the chairman of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Council of Ministers. The appointed will take over as chairman of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Council of Ministers after the appointment is approved by the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. I was obliged to introduce you to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency's decision. Before I give my word to the chairman, do the members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency want to address the House of Representatives? Thank you, gentlemen, members of the Bureau. Mr. Dragan Mikerević is here. Here you go, Mr. Mikerević. You need to submit your political program.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6462	Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, MPs, ministers and deputies, your Excellency, distinguished guests, MPs, media information. It is a great pleasure to address this distinguished audience. Given the difficult beginning of this session, and every beginning is difficult, I hope my exposés will be for 23 of you all relaxing enough. On that behalf, first of all, I would like to thank you in front of the Council of Ministers for the support you have given us during the current period of our term of office. These days it ends 13 months from our appointment and we have a new term of eight months ahead of us. It is fundamental to wonder what I as chairman, if I get your support today, or the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina can do in the next relatively short period. By accepting the presidential council of ministers' candidacy, which has been unanimously entrusted by the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency, he would like to point out that as well as my fellow ministers and deputy ministers, important challenges await me in the latest term of the Council of Ministers. This assembly works at a time when democratic change in our country has become more visible, resistance to them is lower, and the word to the public is more severe. There is no doubt that the criteria to be set and requested in the work of the Council of Ministers will be very high in the next 8 months. In the past period under the chairmanship of Dr Božidar Matić and Dr Zlatko Lagumdžija, the Council of Ministers has done extensive work at a time that was characteristic of the start of true economic reforms and political turbulence. I must point out that the work of the Council of Ministers has been synchronised and constructive so far, and there is no doubt that we will try to provide such work in the coming period. Since you adopted our report on the past three days, here are just some basic indicators. Bosnia and Herzegovina has had a 6% GDP growth rate in the past year, at an average rate of GDP growth in Southeast Europe ranging from 6-8%. In the past year, inflation in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been below 2%, according to data. We are not satisfied with the coverage of imports of only 1/3 although positive trends have been recorded in this area in the past year. We are aware that this unfavourable relationship will not be able to be maintained for long without more serious negative consequences for Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy. Unemployment in both entities continues to move around 40%. However, both of these problems will be addressed through the creation of a more favourable environment for increasing domestic production, increasing foreign direct investment and on these grounds of the growth of goods and services exports. At the moment Bosnia and Herzegovina is dominantly import-oriented. Quality control of import products is weak and what will be our task in the next period is to perfect funds and quality control mechanisms for import products in order to prevent imports of products of poor or unverified quality. Bosnia and Herzegovina's market is one of the most unprotected markets in Europe today. While on the one hand we support the principles of the free market, we also have an obligation to protect ourselves from unfair competition. That is what I will personally insist on as the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Our second task is to ensure political stability and the functioning and efficiency of the legal system in order to encourage and motivate potential domestics, I underline domestic investors, and then the direct side of the roles. They are still at a level that I find unsatisfactory and we will actively strive to change that state. Positive changes are realistic because we are determined to start implementing reforms in the judiciary and to restructure existing courts that, affirming the rule of law, will bring more security and potential investors into Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are determined to implement an action plan against corruption, as well as organised crime, and to lay down regulations that would prevent money laundering in these areas, which until now made this country reluctant for investment. I am fully convinced that there are insufficient foreign investments until people from Bosnia and Herzegovina start investing, and will start when we reduce non-commercial risks that are still in Bosnia and Herzegovina unjustly high. Without 24 removals from factors that slow down potential investors, which in the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina, among other things, is a non-professional and inefficient administration. That is why it is very important for us to agree as soon as possible between the two homes of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament of the Law on State Service in order to launch a solution to this issue. We'll make concrete moves to simplify the company registration procedures. Reforms on customs services, tax administrations, inspection services, or control bodies at all levels of government and labour legislation reforms and the operationalisation of these solutions in practice. However, currency stability is a low inflation rate, a significant order of deficit reserves, reform of the banking sector and legislative reform are a good framework for the location of domestic and foreign investments, which is due to the fact that the existing domestic authorities in this assembly at all levels of government, as well as the positive roles of the international community's sustainability. I am aware of the problems of unemployment, just as I am aware that it must be addressed through the growth of domestic export production. We are currently using only a third of our production resources. The increase in this percentage will be one of our priority tasks, while the basic limiting factor will continue to be the scarcity of capital. The shortest possible route we will use in the next period to remove the limiting growth factors of domestic production and exports is to adapt the business environment to the uniqueness of access to the application of the methodology of control procedures over the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the implementation of the Standardisation Act and the Law on Accreditation where order will begin and on the internal market, which is the basic assumption of the exit of our goods and services to the EU internal market, the operationalisation of incentive measures to improve exports. These and other measures should allow us to catch up with EU standards and, in practice, to replace the Balkans with all its connotations of economic underdevelopment and political rigidity with the term of Southeast Europe, which implies both regional economic co-operation and integration into the system of European and economic and political relations. Bosnia and Herzegovina has already made a step towards integration into European flows. The process of stabilising the extension and assistance programme KADS is helping Bosnia and Herzegovina progress towards the European integration process, but still at an insufficient pace. That's where we have to find a solution. I don't think that without good cooperation with this home, and with the House of People, we're not gonna be able to do that. Through this process, support is given to key reforms in areas that will positively affect the preservation of the peace of democracy's development, respect for human rights and the security of economic prosperity. No matter how far we have met only 9 out of the 18 EU guidelines, I will advocate speeding up the EU accession process as far as possible and that we are building modern Bosnia and Herzegovina to meet EU requirements. In this respect, I will always give priority to training our industry and trade for exports to the EU and to other markets in the world and attracting foreign direct investment, because in this time, it is my only way to increase the gross national product and achieve sustainable employment. Therefore, very slowly, immediately after meeting the requirements of the road map with the help of the European Commission in the phase of making...Stabilising and extension study, we will form 23 expert working groups as much as a chapter in the White Paper that would carefully consider the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina in light of the request of a white book, which would result in the withdrawal of the legislation as a contrast with the legislation in the EU, the adoption of legislation in line with EU standards, defining the need for a new legislator to be adopted and the infrastructure institutions to be established and reconstructed. When it comes to priorities under these 23 chapters, we opted for Chapter 2 of Annex White Paper, which bears the title – Free flow and safety of industrial products, as this opens the way to the EU's internal market, while at the same time facilitating our accession to the World Trade Organisation. 25 There is no doubt that the most powerful event that took place on 22 January this year is necessary for you all to know the recommendation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe concerning the accession of Bosnia and Herzegovina to this oldest European organisation. The recommendation addressed to the Committee of Ministers means that Bosnia and Herzegovina's long-standing efforts in reforms of the rule of law, democratisation of society and economic reforms are recognised as a valuable achievement and a proper path that leads Bosnia and Herzegovina safely and unconstitutionally to European integration. As the entry into the Council of Europe is only the first stage of the trip, there is a large part of the work contained in the list of conditions to be met in the post-accession period with the support and monitoring of the Council of Europe. It is very complex conditions and 91 whose fulfillment will necessarily require the full engagement of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers and entity governments. In light of the September 2001 events in the United States and the consequence of the international event, new priorities are in the work of the Council of Ministers and other BiH institutions and entity authorities. I would take this opportunity to once again underline our commitment to be even more active in the world's alliance to fight this modern time. Our orientation towards peace, stability and prosperity leaves no alternative but to resist this threat to our survival and peaceful co-existence. In the next period, we will insist on further operationalisation of the CIPS project. The plan of BiH institutions and entities' activities to prevent terrorist activity and actions, the development and security of Bosnia and Herzegovina's policy, the takeover and the rest of the BiH border by the State Border Service, which will make our fight against terrorism even more effective. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the previous emphasis, there is much to be done. We have met 9 of the 18 guidelines of the EU Road map. That means the completion of nine more of them remains a task ahead of us. The council of ministers has the credibility to develop the principle of partnership with the international community as a strategic commitment to Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, the principle is easy to declare, but it is harder to find full content and even harder methods to achieve it. As the Council of Ministers, we will seek not to be an empty declaration and we will insist that we take more and more responsibility for our own development. To this end, we will continue to use the partnership forum mechanism with the Office of the High Representative as well as the Co-ordination Committee on Economic Development and European Integration as a place of expert debate on the basic strategic development directions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our foreign debt is still not negligible and is $2.8 billion. It is 60% compared to the social gross product, which is at the very edge of Bosnia and Herzegovina's creditworthiness. In this year alone, the total anuity amounts to 292.4 million KM, which is a blow to the entity's budgets, but the Council of Ministers together with entity governments will give priority to meeting Bosnia and Herzegovina's credit obligations. The Council of Ministers will launch a procedure for Bosnia and Herzegovina's admission into the World Trade Organisation shortly after the adoption of a customs tariff law project. It's a limiting factor at this point. One of the projects we should work on together is the creation of a single economic space in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Without the development of a single economic space, we cannot practically talk about the free market in the region or the European internal market in the EU. Our chance is to liberalise trade, which we will insist on by the end of the year and conclude contracts with all the countries of the region. Politically, the processes of reforming the political 26 system are of little importance. The process of adopting constitutional amendments to the entity constitution is crucial in this respect. I firmly stand on the point that this process should be dominated by the spirit of tolerance and compromise. This is a great opportunity both for domestic institutions and for the international community institutions to contribute crucially to strengthening the democratic spirit in Bosnia and Herzegovina. A statement by the BiH Presidency last July on the will and readiness to join Bosnia and Herzegovina's Partnership for Peace programme, and a recent visit to the NATO Alliance in Brussels made a significant step towards opening the possibility of taking over BiH's participation in active international co-operation on a political and military plan aimed at strengthening the stability of the threat of peace and building and trust in Europe. The Council of Ministers will contribute to the implementation of tasks stemming from this programme. In the field of human rights and refugees, the accent in the coming period will be a sign of the realisation of Annex VII of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina in full capacity and in all modes. By the end of June of this year, we will seek to make the percentage of implementation of property laws more than 50% which is also one of the conditions in the road map towards stabilisation and convergence of the EU. Looking at the various aspects of the Council of Ministers' action, I would not want to miss out on saying that it is about continuous activities and a continuous programme. In any case, I see my work for the next 8 months as a continuation of the work of the Council of Ministers under the leadership of my predecessors Dr Matić and Dr Lagumdžija. I think our goal must be the prosperity of our citizens. The way to a democratic society and a high social standard so the path to the EU that we opted for leads through reforms and the sooner we deal with reforms, the sooner the future generations will live in prosperity, but not in America, Australia, but here in Bosnia and Herzegovina. At home, we will insist on strengthening the institutions of the system, raising general confidence in the system and the rule of law. It is our highest task to ensure that our citizens overcome the trauma of the last unloved war if it is in our power, and to consult their potentials and return to normal life and self-inflictedness. Without accomplishing this task, we are losing our function because the country from which the population is moving out of Zbg has no future. I will direct my work during my term towards our joint efforts both domestic and international actors towards making such plans and wishes a reality. I believe and hope that I will have full support in that, because our path is a common path of prosperity. Successes on this path should not lead us astray, for the alternative to any success is even greater success. I assure you that the Council of Ministers will fully respect the internal structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is defined by the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, namely Annex IV of the Dayton Agreement. I thank you for your attention and look forward to continuing our work together.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6463	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This applause speaks for itself enough, Mr. Mikerević. 27 Gentlemen, I am opening a debate about the program that Mr. Mikerević presented. Here you go. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Osman Brka, Mr. Borić, I apologize. Let me tell you a little secret. I expected Mr. Osman, no, not my lapus, I thought you'd pick up. I've been expecting you. I expected to tell you honestly.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6464	Probably the chairman thought I'd knock off a little blade about past work.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6465	No, sirBorić I was expecting Mr. Brka to take the first word like this. It's just a lapus nothing more. Here you go, Mr. Borić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6466	Here we are. We've seen what it says. We can't do it without your past work, and you're always kind of asking the question of our work, so I have to ask the question of your work in the best interest. I really want to talk to you in a few things. Without any connection to the election, please don't impute me on this. This is actually about a Bosnian Herzegovic man who probably needs to live with dignity once as much dignity as possible and in the full capacity of human rights. So my intention is to improve the work, not to make some election results come true in future elections. That doesn't matter. I'm quite responsible. So I would say, we heard Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the Future. We heard a story we heard from Mr. Lagumdžija and, of course, Mr. Matić. The same story and indeed the story, rhetoric and earlier story was that it would be the rule of law in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This parliament and this Council of Ministers failed to pass state laws at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Mr Mikerević acknowledged it and thanked him for writing it. So we can't talk in Bosnia and Herzegovina about the rule of law unless we have a Bosnia and Herzegovina judiciary level. The judiciary, if it does not exist, can't even respect human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so it's not true that human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina are making some kind of progress better in that direction. We also heard the story that there will be direct investments, direct investments have not been made in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so there is no employment. We've also heard the story that it's going to cut people's going out, and it's not cut down, it's still going down. And here's in this program that Mr. Mikerević and the Council of Ministers did and proposed to this House for adoption as a orientation of his work and this council we actually see nothing but a story of too many promises and indeed a little bit of opportunity to do. It would be a big thing and I would welcome this more cautious little performance by Mr. Mikerević when he said that, of course, pt has confirmed these now my addressing here claims has spoken a little more cautiously about issues which will be resolved a little bit on a longer-term basis. And that fits the truth. There's really nothing fast going on in Bosnia. I'm convinced in eight months that a lot can't be done, but that he has good intentions and serious intentions we're convinced of. But then there's no message we'll do it, because you didn't do it, and then that's what bothers you, of course. So I would say that in this material a small man, a Bosnian man who was 28, was a hero who survived in the war, is a hero, and now that he's survived, he's suffering the kind of power we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Mr. Lagumdžija was in Greece these days and I'm glad he was. When I spoke to the Council of Ministers, I had no evil intentions. I just wanted to say I'm glad that you were able to make communication because I don't see you here often, and that was one well-intentioned suggestion. I would also like you to be more with the commissions and this parliament, and it does not say that much co-operation has been achieved between the Council of Ministers and Parliament. So that's what the SDA MPs' position is, and I'm bringing it out. But I'm gonna finish this shorter address. You were in Greece, and you know there was an institution in Greece 2,000 years ago for responsible citizens of the state who were fighting for democracy, for human rights and for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, they were called "pritanier," and in that institution, the responsible citizens could speak with the authorities, drink coffee or tea. They called themselves the prins and the communication 2,000 years ago and lived in a democratic country. I would like this Council of Ministers to have contact with an ordinary man, with an ordinary citizen, and also in this House there is this relationship. So one human relationship, one normal communication that we can move things forward about, because Bosnia and Herzegovina is a complex state, lawyers are called (suegeneris) saying it's not in the world like ours, but it's our country, Dayton Bosnia and sure that it has narrow restrictions in the Constitution and we understand this Council of Ministers that there's not exactly the jurisdiction of those in which and sometimes we ask them to do it, but there's one rhetoric of serious, human. Here's what we did, we couldn't do this, we're gonna do this, and no, here we are better than the ones before, and we did it and so on. So from everything exposed to this Club of Members of the SDA when it comes to the government, he abstained from voting for, because with that restraint, we have actually given the opportunity to show and give the government the chance to do as much. After all this has been done and what we heard in the report the other day at the SDA Parliament Club, we took the stand that we can no longer be abstentioned and that we must vote against. That's our attitude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6467	Thank you, Mr. Borić. Who's answering for a word? Damir Mašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6468	Members of the Bureau, former chairman, future chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers of the Council of Ministers and gentlemen of the media, above all to express my satisfaction over the fact that the candidate for the Council of Ministers is in his inaugural presentation as an important factor in stability, i.e. Bosnia and Herzegovina's economic stability cited an increase and boost of domestic production. That's what I'm putting an accent on. Visiting election unit three weeks. The area of Tuzlan canton and Posavina canton along with Mr Sead Avdić and Mrs Violet Kamberović, as well as Mr Boro Bjelobrk of some municipality in Canton of Sarajevo, is unequivocally the impression that individual producers especially in the agricultural and food industry, small and medium-sized enterprises are losing the competition match, and the state does nothing to condition the protection of domestic production and therefore in front of the SDP Bosnia and Herzegovina MEPs' Club to ask the Council of Ministers to ask, we ask, however it is appropriate to prepare the material and to schedule a thematic session of both homes within a period of two months on the subject – the incentive of domestic production with the aim of increasing export competitiveness in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This initiative will also be forwarded to the House of Peoples. 29 And finally, I hope that the Council of Ministers, led by the new leadership, will continue a positive trend that began with Mr Božidar Matić and Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6469	Thank you, Mr. Mašić. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Franjo Majdandžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6470	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, that is, the Council of Ministers of the Party's Club for BiH supports the candidate and values and respects the programme, which in our opinion is comprehensive, content, perspective and I would say binding on the executive authorities and to say legislative factors in the authorities. I would only give on my behalf a few more suggestions that would enter into some explicitity in further work and in further activities. First of all, on the conversion of privatisation, I think it should go to be one model at the level of our entire country, and I don't think it's going to hurt that much, and clearly that's how it should be realized. It's my good and your good that we once created with our hands and certainly have the right to do so, etc. Looking at me, I'd say a little bit and more radical interventions on the rationalisation and efficiency of the state, means the cost of costing a state that is now very expensive must be very difficult for this economy to rationalise, to make a bit more sharp cuts. This is what Europe is asking of us because we have taken the appropriate commitments and that it is going towards a more rational and efficient structure of the state, regardless of how some ministers and the dominants and some big bosses will not like it, but the state must do so and respect it in order to move forward. The experiences of other countries also show that they are painful cuts, but that they must be carried out for the benefit of citizens, peoples, because the state is right for the people, for the people in most, and many have to fit in, etc. As far as the road to Europe is concerned, we are already accepting appropriate standards, standards, laws, etc. We would do well to be presented a little bit, and we sitting here, who are making laws that are still a very large number and legal acts, sublegal standards and other thirds that bind us this year, and that is a lot to prepare and that we are somehow working, I would say more expedient, more determined, and finally we must make a contribution that is needed to move faster towards Europe. I didn't notice in the material that there should be a reform of the overall education system from high school to high school at the state level, because people create everything. Surely there is room for this, and many countries and our environment have already done so, and many have implemented it, so that it should go on. Normally, it requires one step, one thoroughness, but you might want to start going, and to tell you the truth, if we have personnel, especially capable we can work for Europe today. The funds are telecommunications, other third information, all of which allow us to do so so that these spaces are now quite in a different relationship than they used to be and there are extraordinary opportunities for people's professional, educational, etc. I still think that it should also be launched, if it is not already a reform of the pension system that has also been implemented in many countries, and that is a very, very broad diapazone that 30 represents quite other relationships than we today have the interest of people to engage through this segregation and by determining their future when pensioners are pensioners so that it is one time etc. We also read from the materials that there is a development strategy in terms of this may not be a complete strategy, but there are certain directions in this strategy that speak of how to develop further our product, our economy, how to identify ourselves in the world our products. That's the point to give, and we're here somehow I'd say shy, maybe we're not capable enough, we're not intrusive enough, and there's a lot of possibilities. I look forward to the team more the candidate's training and I think it will give its special contribution to bringing together the staff of others who, I would say experts, professionals for their work, who are experts and who will make such a contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6471	Thank you, Mr. Majdandžić. Mr. Flipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6472	Dear members of the Presidency, chaired by, gentlemen of ministers, colleagues and fellow Members, I support the presentation of Mr Mikerevic's mandate as chairman of the Council of Ministers and his programme activities for the next term of office. I particularly support the continuation of what this council has done in the past period, which is making decisions and proposals for legislative projects unanimously, i.e. by consensus, because it is important for a given procedure in this home and more efficient work and this home. Also, and we heard this on Monday, I support Mr Lagumdžija's presentation on Tuesday, and I would like to continue with proposals to strengthen the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and within the current constitution, because this constitution does not prevent much, and points to agreements and the result of these agreements can be what we have achieved so far, and it can be much faster for this country to be formed and organised in the sense that it requires Europe and unification in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6473	Thank you. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Buturović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6474	Respected Presidency, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I was the last time a report on the work of the Council of Ministers in the past called on one thing to say that this council of ministers should really grow into the government of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a government that really rules the entire territory of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina with certain competences that I am aware that in the current Council of Ministers law there are no and these are one restrictions in work, certainly problems in the work of the Council of Ministers. I am in favour of changing the law in the Council of Ministers where indeed the Council of Ministers will grow into the government of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this sense, it would favour a government that would be less political, more professional, commitment to economic reforms where all the pro-Probian-oriented forces would be included in such a government. So people who consider this country their only country and where 31 criteria for entry into such a single government will be exclusively that expertise, not foreign and political colour. I believe, and the position is deeply convinced that in the opposition there are also people of exceptional professional and quality who may be today, and here they seem to be still not used, and for the benefit of this country. And that is one of my regrets both as a citizen and as a man and as an MP in this House for the election of both the previous and the current Council of Ministers, which has been proposed to us. Indeed at this point, here is who we constantly value as one very difficult and crucial for the further prosperity of this country, for further democratisation, for further integration into European integration we really need such people regardless of which political parties they belong. That's what I have a grudge for. And now what would you say about the offered program? A little bit economic, maybe. My suggestion when it comes to the privatisation process. It is certain that we are not satisfied with the privatisation so far through the forms of shareholder enrollment or through a public tender. At this point in time, he would ask for a state-level concession law to be adopted as soon as possible, which would surely attract investments both domestic and foreign. And this is a condition for the country's economic recovery and economists know better. Further when it comes to human rights. And there should be much more to do, much more to do, and I would call on the vijeć of Ministers, especially the Ministry of Human Rights and European Integration, to call on the UN Universal Declaration adopted in 48 years ago, further to the European Convention on Human Rights adopted later where it is exclusively guaranteed and the bearer of human rights, I repeat it again is the state. And I think there's some things we need to do about it. In that sense, I think there is already one resolution in the matter of health care today, and I hope that we will quickly consider it which is one of the sure basic principles of respect for human rights. We hope that in this context, both the current and future Council of Ministers' meeting, or government, we will have one plagmatical position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6475	Thank you. Mr. Mirko Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6476	Dear gentlemen, I have tried to read this presentation of Mr. Mikerević with attention and believe everything I want to say is neither in thought nor in thought directed to Mr. Mikerević as an esteemed expert and Dr. Science, but simply in the sequence of what he writes I want to point out what confuses me and what I don't understand as a man. But before that, I thought someone in front of the respected presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina would address this home and say something more than that stupendous memo that said that Mr. Mikerević had been proposed. I expected the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina to say that the proposal was guided by the work so far and by the results of Mr Mikerević's work at the minister's post in the portfolio that he represented, to count his results taxively as a minister, which would give me the right to decide on the basis of the arguments. I expected that the Presidency would also consider very carefully the fact that this is a council of ministers in which he took part in the work as we saw in the previous report and Mr Mikerević sold gold for 11 million minus what it would cost the elections of autumn gentlemen because this people would need at least as much money as the wrong selling done and past the law done. And of course I didn't hear any of it as good or as bad, as commitment or as dilemma. But believe me, I asked myself why. There was a lot of uncertainty in this House and a lot of handlifting without arguments and explanations, so this will be nothing called precedent but practice in sequence. 32 And when it comes to Mr. Chairman, the candidate for the chairman and his presentation on the first page says he will continue the work and extensive work of his predecessors in a time that was characteristic of the start of true economic reforms and political turbulence. Economic reforms as well as political turbulence. I think he's adding that this work has been synchronised and constructive. And no doubt, I'm reading again, that we'll continue this kind of work. Now you see, I don't know what kind of, I don't know where, if they didn't build anything, I don't know what else they were doing. There's nothing listed. And I'd like to see the results of that constructive, synchronised. It's good and turbulence. That's good, that's good termology, but behind that terminology must be something that would be called a result, which would be called a tangible work that can be seen. And then in 13 months, I beg you, I have believed me very carefully read this document, for 13 months stands the finding that a lot has been done. And now it's said a lot. And now I've been trying to bring it out a lot, so it says -- what about the national product of $872, or 1,042 -- that's one of the arguments, the other says -- on the other hand, that was the first thing, this is the other, on the other hand, we're not satisfied with the coverage of imports from just 1/3. That's another important result. Imports are covered by 1/3 of the exports. So the first one was this, the second one was this score. Third unemployment is 40%, that's the third score. Please continue, it is promised that through creation, it will continue to create a favourable environment for increasing domestic production. So far it wasn't gonna be. Then increased foreign direct investment based on the growth of goods and services exports. I don't see it, and I'd like to know what it is or what it's going to be covered in the future. At this point, Bosnia and Herzegovina is dominantly import-oriented. It's another important success that's listed. Quality control of import products is weak. That's the next result that's been achieved. Furthermore, Bosnia and Herzegovina's market is one of the most unprotected markets in Europe today. That's the next result of this council of ministers. Gentlemen, the assignments are coming up now. I'm sorry, I'm literally reading what it says. Our second task is to ensure political stability and the functioning and efficiency of the legal system. The next result is an inefficient legal system. Furthermore, foreign investment remains at a level I find unsatisfactory and we will actively seek to change the situation. It means existing activity. But for now, it's unsatisfactory. Positive changes are realistic, because we have decided to start and implement reforms in the judiciary. There is therefore a decision on implementing reforms, affirming the rule of law to bring more security into the legal system. Please, continue to follow while people are not, that the possibility of favourable domestic investment has been reduced. He says until the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina start investing, and it will start when we reduce non-commercial differences that are still unwarrantedly high in BiH. I'm sorry, it doesn't distinguish non-commercial risks, so the risks aren't. The difference is, sir, but it doesn't say well. No, not that it is. I see you're taking a lot of time for terminology. There are many removals of factors that slow down potential investors and that is one of the tasks. It means there are problems. Among other things, a non-professional and inefficient administration. She's like that now. That's the same result. I'm talking about the results. Further and so, that's right, from the predecessors of course. The simplified procedure for registering the company will now improve and we say we currently use 1/3 of our production resources and that is the result. The limiting growth factors of domestic production and exports will be eliminated, and potential measures will be operationalised to improve exports. Of course, it's very important. Potential measures. And what are the potential measures have not been said so far. 33 E, please, then comes he says - no matter what we have met 9 of the 18 EU guidelines will be advocated to speed up the accession process. When I read this, then I was passed by by that time, Comrade Tito, when he was in the woodwork. Says the president of the municipality gives him a referendum and says – Comrade President, we have 50% illiterate, among other things says the second time I come I want it to be the other way around. Now I believe he's not here right now, the other nine. I apologize for what it is. Next, please, he would take this opportunity to undermine our commitment once again. This is a very important commitment to be even more active in the World Alliance to fight this honor of modern times. It's thought of, I beg you, it's thought of terrorism. So you know what you're thinking. If you remember, we concluded here in September of last year that we will bring a plan that has not been adopted today – a plan to fight terrorism in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There's been a session interrupted and it's never been continued, but there's going to be time. Further over the past year, the Council of Ministers has completed a series of tasks, although I do not see any in this series. There's no number here, maybe there is, I didn't say there isn't. Furthermore, gentlemen, this council of ministers has shown credibility that the principle of partnership, this principle is particularly important with the international community, is developing as a strategic commitment to Bosnia and Herzegovina and that this is not empty, will be truly realised. We're in charge of 60% of gross social product for now. That's also one of the results, and please, I think it says that our goals must be the prosperity of our citizens. Which is the result of the prosperity so far doesn't stand here and I would beg to be explained to me. It is our greatest task to allow our citizens to overcome the trauma of the past relentless war as much as it is in our power. Of course, I ask you, above the power of nothing, to consolidate their potentials and return to normal life and commitment. I think these are the results we're talking about. The path of prosperity is promised and, of course, gentlemen, I know that they say that people in communication when they listen. Gesticulation interests 93% and only 7% of the content. That's why you who will vote in favour or abstention, you've fallen into the gesture, and I'm going to go into the 7%, because I don't think so, why so? I mean, gentlemen, no matter how you figure this out here, it says what I read. There's nothing you can say that doesn't say. I thought, truly, that BiH came to the level when it could offer the peoples of BiH, the citizens of the Council of Ministers who would represent this Parliament with the most competent people from this Parliament and that we would show, regardless of the political options, that they were smart and able to know and can help BiH come out of this situation in which it was extremely painted in this exhibition, outstandingly. So, please, I expected you to believe that BiH people will be offered a new, capable, of course, by sharing that in this Council of Ministers there are extremely high-quality people and I do not dispute it, but I think it should have been possible for others to say that. I'd like to ask a few questions to the candidate. I know you're with the Alliance, what I said and not interested, and if it's of interest then we'll see about the vote, I'd like to ask you a question. Is the candidate willing to explain the attitude he gave on Radio Doboy, and I heard it. That he wouldn't talk or the Republika Srpska Radio, I mostly heard it in the car. There are still people here who have heard that they will not speak to the national parties, and is he still in that position and what is his perception of that position? How is his idea of democracy even in these places? I'd like him to explain the reasons for that attitude. Secondly, since we have already received an unarped list of candidates for ministerial posts, that Mr. Minister of Refugees and Displaced Persons and Human Rights come out here and says whether 34 remains in his claim to violate and bring down BiH's constitutional-first order and wants to be a minister? He's referring to Mr. Zubak. To know why we vote. Whether it is also a vote to bring down the constitutional-first arrangement of a state. Of course, gentlemen, I'm not gonna condemn anyone who suggests anything. Everyone should also propose in the regular procedure to obtain confirmation or negation of their proposal, but it is incomprehensible and unimaginable to me, that someone wants to rule a state as a high official and as a official while at the same time destroying the constitutional and legal order of a state that is as it is. Maybe he's not the best, maybe he is, maybe he's compromised, maybe he can be better, but eventually until he changes, he needs to have him as he is. I'd like those two answers from these two men and, of course, to explain. Is there anything on the program yet or not? If everything in the program is contained here, I know that too. That's all the program offered by the candidate and his cabinet. I'm really sorry about the length, but I care about it honestly. I'm not a man who came here with an orderly attitude. I want answers to questions, maybe change the attitude I've been able to create so far.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6477	Thank you, Mr. Banjac. Mr. Lubić. Replica, here you go, Mr. Bjelobrk.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6478	I must express my gratitude to Mr. Banjac for expressing his memory of Josip Broz Tito today. Appreciateing the ability and being present to see this opposition reading and criticism of this exposé of my esteemed colleague, I want to point out that I will do anything, to do it better than he, even if I have waited twenty years for it. The pedasities created since the time of the building, in any case not the capital of this Council of Ministers, but the capital of the electors of the previous speaker's policy, and I propose in the end, that we agree with the findings of the previous speaker, the esteemed colleague Mirko Banjac, that he does not understand this. I was quoting.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6479	Mr. Ljubić. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished MPs, I've read these papers that I've received, I won't call this a work programme, I think that's not a work programme. It contains an inaugural presentation of candidates for the Council of Ministers chairman. I'm counting on this Council of Ministers to have one course of action. There are measures of economic policy, which were initially proposed for sources of presidency and for Mr Matić. I expect that this Council of Ministers will, once elected, go with one of their own programs, whether whole or by segments of that programme. That's why I'd say I am, since it's not a program. I expected to refer to some questions, which should be addressed in this opening statement, to which an accent should be thrown. I know there's a lot of unemployment in BiH. We're going to have hard-to-find stories about some major projects on economic reform to achieve a bigger effect, at least in a short time. We are witnessing that BiH is a country that is very unpopulated, that the population is now escalated into a small number of environments, usually in cities and around cities. We have a large area of BiH not populated. I therefore believe that compared to this in preparation for this economic prosperity, development and greater employment should be the first programmes to encourage and only employ people, because we will be able to open places to people in such a short time, but we can encourage their self-employment, especially in agriculture and livestock. That is why it is very important that last time we ratified this one project of livestock development and financing between BiH and the International Agricultural Development Fund. I therefore expect in the coming time more such projects where through credit arrangements we will encourage people for 35 self-employment and return to those places that have relaxed, because there is, however, the easiest place to open a bar for this time. I expected that at least it would be given in terms of thinking about introducing a single rate of tax on added value, because I think it is inevitable in BiH. I know again that this Council of Ministers has no great authority in accordance with both the State and the laws, but I certainly think that the Council of Ministers should encourage this tax reform and I think that the only quality solution that can give the result is better that it is the introduction of VAT, so whether it is a unique rate or something different, let it be seen. Also, continuing the reform of customs services, their efficiency, because no matter how much the Council of Ministers and the entity government will work, if we really have one quality tax reform and reform of customs services, normally with border insurance, means with the border service, we will be unable to fulfill the task and fill the budget, starting with levels and cantons or entities, too, there is no BiH budget. Also, I'm just suggesting that we take care of these few questions about the design of the programme and I can say with some parts and agree with this programme, and I'm going to try in this time of eight months to contribute that we have as many laws as possible, so I call on this council of ministers, if elected, to go a little bit further with legislative reform, to propose laws in several areas and to speed up our adoption process. That's it. Thank you, Mr. Ljubić. Who answers the word. We've exhausted the list of speakers. Niko. Mr. Mikerević, questions have been raised during the debate. Do you want to answer questions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6481	I have listened carefully to criticism and suggestions, which will certainly be useful to me, because they have prompted me to think about some problems and if many of these problems are already in our hands, even working, even ordered projects, if you are interested in tax reform, that a project about VAT exposure has been commissioned. I didn't consider it necessary to present the work programme, because this is, I said, I told the Council of Ministers which is a continuity and there was no reason why I was now making new... as Mr. Banjac says, there were political turbulence. Yes, we took over the wave at a time when it really was and when, indeed, at all levels, we started real economic reforms, and you can see these indicators in all our statistical bulletins. I have no intention, either, to expose and think I'm exposing and I think that the question addressed to the Presidency about my results and the work of my ministry so far, is that I am at all a good candidate for this function? I have reported and submitted to Parliament, according to the Rules of Procedure in which it is necessary. Parliament, as far as I know, adopted the report, so I passed. So I wouldn't go into all the questions. I think she'll be useful to us for, simply, our future, future work. I think we'll learn some lessons from this debate. In any case, it seems to me that we will work very hard on this close co-operation between Parliament and the Council of Ministers. In that sense, there are certain initiatives. And you have them here in some business clubs. For example. one Romania, Croatia, Bulgaria, e.g. they have in their congregation bodies and committees, e.g. for European integration. Perhaps that would be, perhaps, a way to think about some moderation to make our co-operation even more real, because we are really going into one phase when we are going to have 36 hands full of work, no matter who is going to be in power, because the whole afikominators, the White Paper should be implemented in BiH's legal system. If we want to be a part of this Europe, and I think our commitment has been since '99. A year. So, I wouldn't answer any particular questions. I think these few remarks that were, I think they're primarily well-intentioned. This is the analytical approach Mr. Banjac made. I think that, at the very least, it's a little incorrect, because all of its findings are drawn from the context of the sentence, etc., but I think this place is not the place that, the MP has the right to do so and to criticise and to draw. However, the very meaning of these expressions is not the same as that of the honourable MP Banjac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6482	Thank you, Mr. Mikerević. Mr. Banjac was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6483	Dear Mr. Mikerević, literally, literally no statement has been drawn out of context. It's already made up in context. To say that a lot has been done, and then to say negative by negative, bad result by bad result, that was your commitment. Maybe that's a fair thing to say. And I think it's fair, when there's nothing to say, to tell the truth, and I respect that kind of approach, but I think that, I think we should literally hear reality. If this is reality, I thank you. I find you extremely correct, and I like that in your approach, which you are, after all, a serious and responsible expert in one field of science and compulsory and I say to lead by scientific principles to tell the truth and nothing more than that. So, I don't like your finding to say up in the first part of it you said it's done an extremely large amount and then you state the very negativity. Maybe there's some positive stuff. That's why I asked you, if there's anything positive you say here that we know how to define ourselves. The second thing, I ask you, you have deliberately kept your mouth shut, and that is why you said you would not speak to close to 50% of Parliament, with representatives close to 50% of Parliament. In the end, it's democracy. I don't argue with that. The definition is that every organ acts democratically who makes decisions for the majority of those elected and voted. I know that. Just don't make this people think under democracy that it's all positive. That's not true. There are other things. You said what you said. Please, I assure you, as a man with full responsibility, none of the evil intentions were, except to say, gentlemen, you have no results. That's what you say and I confirm and I'd like to hear the answers from members of the Bureau what is it with the Trezor who has been re-enlisted for illegally sold millions of dollars? What's going on? Does it matter so little what happened to 11 million difference? Let me not answer that I have a chance somewhere for only one of those 11 or one of us to have such a chance. Please, these are all results. You can't tell this public that everything's okay if it's not okay. That you've been acting in a way that's legal, if that's not the case. I also want to know if Mr Krešimir Zubak is still in his belief that BiH, he wants to pass the BiH Constitution. If he wants him to say it. I want to know who's being voted for here today. Maybe I'd vote here. I, as an expert, listened to Mr. Krešimir on a show very well spoken. As a lawyer, I respect his position, but I would like to hear his position today when it comes to the constitutional and legal system and the constitutional-law 37 structure of a state that is the one where I live which is my country. I want to know if he still thinks so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6484	Thank you, Mr. Banjac. Mr. Zbak, a replica, probably. You have a way of not. You've been called by name and last name.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6485	I don't know, I guess why he thought of Mr. Banjac's esteemed representative when he said what he said and I appreciate that, as he truly does, he respects one of the fundamental principles, which today applies in all the democratic states of the world, which is the right to his own opinion. So, as a person, as an individual or a politician, and as a minister, I have my own opinion first, I have my own TV in everything and also about how BiH is arranged. Moreover, I think that in this function where I am, I need to point out problems in organising and structuring the government and this country that are making it impossible and difficult to get out of this state, which we, here and today, are finding out that it is and that it has been going on for how many years and that it should right now be a duty for all of us who are us to be traumatized by power, that, when we see that changes as an obstacle to change are constitutional and legal solutions, we need to initiate a procedure to remove these obstacles. Therefore, I think I have a first opinion on it, and even initiate changes. It's perfectly legal and legitimate and I have nothing to give up on my own opinions or opinions or to build on myself as some ask me to build on myself. Secondly, I personally think and that is quite clear, that everything in this country needs to be pawned and fought if it wants to change something through the institutions of the system. Therefore, and if I think that this arrangement or anything is wrong, I will advocate as a true Democrats that these changes go through the system of government, through the institutions of the system of government. In other words, it is not unknown, we had it in last year's attempt to change the system of the BiH government's organisation, an internal arrangement in BiH beyond the government institutions. It was just one of the first to react in this sense that Mr. Krešimir Zubak was here, and if these initiatives came from parts of the political structures of the people I belong to, to which I personally think I have nothing to say, while there is this form of BiH's internal arrangement, I am on it, I will work through this system, not in violation of any or none of the provisions of the existing system, but I think I have a legitimate first and I think that's the need. I think that soon, we won't be long before everyone realizes that this kind of systematic arrangement that doesn't know the history of the state and the first one of the major brakes and interferences that makes us not able to get out of this situation that we're in. But no matter what I think, as long as it's not an expression of the will and consciousness of everyone here present or those who will be in this room, I don't think I should be doing anything against the existing system.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6486	Thank you. Niko one's answering for a word. Gentlemen, we need to be clear about the approval of the chairmanship of the Council of Ministers. 38 The proposal is to approve the appointment of Prime Minister Mikrerević's Chairmanial Council. Who's in? Please count carefully. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Whether or not an entity vote is required. Entire vote. Who is from RS for Mr Mikerević's proposal to be the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers? Thank you. From the Federation of BiH who's in favour? I'd like the result of the vote. 38 MPs voted. For 25 - against 7 abstentions of 6 MPs. By entities. Federation of BiH for 16 – Republika Srpska for 8.. I konstatuj that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives has approved the appointment of Dr Dragan Mikerević as the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. I'm asking you to leave your cards for later. [[Applause]] We didn't finish the job. We'll just let the chairman. Mr. Mikerević, be a little more patient. Have a seat. Mr Jozo Križanović, a member of the BiH presidency, spoke for the word. Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6487	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs and MPs, due to our publicity and regarding certain issues, which are being set up here today, I am obliged to say that the BiH Presidency, in line with the BiH Constitution, the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Presidency and the Council of Ministers' Law, has begun consultations on a timely basis for the appointment of the new chairman. The Bureau also previously analysed the report on the work of the Council of Ministers and in the framework of the consultation held talks with the outgoing chairman of the Council of Ministers, with the co-worker of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, and with representatives of all political parties participating in this House, except for the Bosnian Patriot Party and HDZ. On the basis of these consultations, the presidency has been determined to appoint Mr Mikerević as chairman, which you have today approved. I sincerely thank you for this, also from this place, on behalf of the BiH Presidency, I would like to express my gratitude for the overall, correct and good co-operation with the current chairman, Mr Lagumdžija, and to express our expectations that this co-operation with the Presidency and this House will continue during the Presidency of the Council of Ministers by Mr Mikerević.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6488	Thank you, Mr. Križanović. Allow me, I deliberately let you do it on behalf of the Presidency. Let me, on behalf of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, congratulate Dr Mikerević, wish successful work and thank Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's previous chairman of the Council of Ministers for his successful work and co-operation. 39 Mr. Mikerević, please present a proposal for the Council of Ministers. To propose ministers and deputies to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6489	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for this trust. Since you chose me as chairman, you assume that the proposal is for the Minister for European Integration to be a candidate and Deputy Ministers Rasim Kadić and Zora Marijanović. The candidate for the Treasury Minister is Mr Ante Domazet and Deputy Muharem Imamović and Gordana Ković. The candidate for Foreign Trade Minister is Azra Hadžiahmetović and Deputys Jadranko Prlić and Nikola Kragulj. Candidate for Foreign Minister Zlatko Lagumdžija and Deputy Foreign Minister Ivica Mišić and Milovan Blagojević. Refugee and Human Rights Minister Krešimir Zubak's candidate and Deputys Kadrija Haračić-Šabić-Sabiæ and Vladislav Vladičić. Candidate for the Minister of Civil Affairs and Communications Mr Svetozar Mihajlović and Deputys Jusuf Halilagić and Milan Lovrić. These are the same candidates who have been in the previous two-thirds of this term, and that is the basic reason why the team has not been changed and, hopefully, you will plead favorably with these candidates.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-15-0.u6490	Thank you, Mr. Mikerević, according to Poslvonik, I am opening a debate on a proposal for the Council of Ministers' composition for ministers and deputy ministers at the Council of Ministers. There you are, gentlemen. I figure no one's answering for a word. The debate is over. I put Mr. Mikerević's proposal to vote. I don't think I should say it again. You heard Mr. Mikerević. Before that, we got in the material that he exposed, which was given to us, we got a biography of Mr. Mikerević, we got the program he was talking about and we got his proposal for members of the Council of Ministers. Please make a statement. Who is Mr Mikerević's proposal for ministers and deputy ministers at the Council of Ministers? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Entire vote. Who's in favour of the RS? Thank you. Who's for the Federation of BiH? I'd like the results of the vote. The result of the vote – present and voting 37 – for 24 – against 7 – abstentioned 6 MPs. 40 per entity. 15 MPs from the Federation of BiH for. 8 MPs from the RS for. I find that the predstavnički of Representatives has approved the appointment of ministers and deputy ministers as proposed by the chairman. Allow me, I must read for the record. Dr. Crescent. Zlatko Lagumdžija for the foreign minister. Ivica Mišić and Milovan Blagojević for Deputy Foreign Ministers. Dr. Crescent. Dragan Mikerević for the minister of European integration, Rasim Kadić and Zora Marijanović Deputy Minister. Dr. Crescent. Ante Domazet for BiH Institutions Minister of Treasury Muharem Imamović and Gordana Ković for Deputys. Svetozar Mihajlović for the minister of civil affairs and communication, Jusuf Halilagić and Milan Lovrić for deputies. Krešimir Zubak za ministar za izbjeglica i ljudski pravo Kadrija Haračić-Šabić-Sabic and Vladislav Vladičić for Deputys. Dr. Crescent. Azra Hadžiahemtović as foreign trade and economic relations minister, deputy Mr. Jadranko Prlić and Nikola Kragulj. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ministers and Deputy Ministers, I congratulate you on behalf of the House Representative at the election and wish you successful work. Gentlemen, this is the end of today's session. [[Applause]] Thank you. The seat's finished at 17:45.
