ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6755	We move to the 24th session of the House of Representatives. Please, my colleague said. Please let us in, we'll find a solution. Let's get to work. Sit down, buddy. You'll get your word when there's a chance. We are moving to the 24th session of the House of Representatives, which was called upon at the request of 16 MPs. Please be anthem when the session continues.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6756	This isn't a follow-up session. This is a new session.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6757	So why do we need an anthem for God's sake? It's the anthem again.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6758	That's the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6759	Really now, an anthem and invite guests and open the session again. When do you want tomorrow or today? He can't do it tomorrow. I can't. If anyone can get the quorum together. How we're gonna get it together. Please. What? Gentlemen, you asked for a session. Sit down, we've got time, what's the problem. We'll be done by 12 if that's a problem, but I don't think it's a problem. We're going after the session. I don't care about the game and the rest. I said it. Please, the problem is that we, I suggest we don't slave for the anthem procedure and everything. What's the problem? We had it today, and we can move to session 24 immediately. What's the big deal? Nothing. Let's move on. So, gentlemen of Parliament, the College has accepted the request of 16 MPs per article 40. Article 3. where it writes – Based on Article 47(?) We request the establishment of an extraordinary session of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[you don't understand what attitude]] 2 The theme of the session is – The debate on the implementation of the BiH Constitutional Court Decision on the constitutionality of the Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian people and their equality throughout the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are 16 promoters here. So based on this, the College. The chairman is required to call a session. We started with a session. We have a draft agenda here. So we have one item on the agenda, and that's what we need to say. I beg you, so we have a proposal on the agenda for a group of 16 MPs. The previous question is whether these 16 MPs remain on this request? If they stay, we move on, if we don't, then we shouldn't have a session. Please state that the MPs who signed this request remain on request? I can't read it, Mrs. Todorović. Give me the list. I'll read it. It is Začiragić Emina, Purić Mirsad, Majdandžić Franjo, Begović Muhamed, Đedović Ibrahim, Ljubić Mariofil, Buturović Sead, Mehtić Halil, Brka Osman, Vilić Ramiz and Grabovac Miro, Baković Mirko, Vukić Zdenko, Amidžić Marko, Lozančić Ivo and Cuplov Mustafa. Here you go, Mr. Đedović and Mr. Cuplov.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6760	What are we discussing?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6761	Mr. Banjac MPs have applied for a session. Let's see if they stay or stay on that request. Here you go, Mr. Đedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6762	We asked for it. I'm talking now in my own name there's more I think than a month. We know what the date is today. What's going on tomorrow? I think tonight's debate on the subject is groundless and I'm withdrawing my request.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6763	Thank you. Mr. Cuplov has his word. Here you go, Mr. Cuplov. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6764	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the esteemed presidency for similar reasons, of course, the debate on this topic at this point would probably be groundless, and in that sense I have the powers of the people of the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina who have signed for, demanding that the debate be launched. We are withdrawing our signatures and request for this debate, because at this point it is groundless, especially as you know the representative of the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina have signed the Sarajevo Declaration and in this sense I see no reason now.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6765	No more 16, please the other MPs, I think this is a realistic solution. Please, gentlemen, you've heard the signatures have been withdrawn. We don't have to count, but. Mr. Osman Brka. There's no 10, yeah, I don't know. I can't count now.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6766	I am a respected presidency, I am one of the 16 signatories of an emergency session and I really thought for a reason and I will bring it out here that in this House there are 42 people who certainly received the most votes in the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the previous elections. I thought these 42 people had something to say about the problem we've all been busy with for the past few months or years. I felt and now I feel that no country in the world on the Constitutional Court's decision is being discussed, but it is being implemented. I took a chance last week on Igman up when they were from, when we were at that joint session and I asked the gentlemen if in their countries a decision of the Constitutional Court was being discussed or he was being conducted, a funeral decision. Not one of the Lords has deigned to answer me, for I know what he can answer. And I now believe that she should be implemented and not discussed. I have therefore put my signature on the subject that this parliament has something to say and that these 42 men as responsible people in this country should say their position on the matter. I think it's irresponsible of anyone to bypass these people and this Parliament. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6767	Thank you, Mr. brkati. Please the other signatories to take. I in every variant would beg that Dom declare himself in that variant. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6768	I seem to be the signator of that initiative and you haven't read me. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6769	I'm sorry. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6770	Good's not a problem now. I want him to say next. In this regard, we did not want to politicise this case of implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision, but simply let the political representatives who reportedly discussed the way in which the Constitutional Court Decision was implemented. They don't seem to have any basis or right. It is a decision of parliamentary parliaments, i.e. the assembly, entity assemblies, and should be implemented consistently and in this direction we should seem to be discussing today a resolution on the consistent implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision, and not on some partial and some solutions, as is the case with the day-to-day policy of a political party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6771	Thank you. Mr. Ljubić Mariofil.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6772	I'm one of the signers. I felt that this parliament should also send a message asking for the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision consistent with the full consistency of all three peoples in the entire territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think it was our obligation too, I mean for principle reasons and all the other reasons I can't withdraw my signature. Some may feel that it is now declassified, I think we will have opportunities for the next few days, as well as for the next months to discuss this issue, because I think this, no matter how it ends, does not end the story of the constitution of the people in the whole territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6773	Thank you. Mr. Mehitć.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6774	I really can't figure out that this Parliament didn't have a chance, I'd be begging this gentleman who's leading some mutual controversy while the official part of the session is going to shut up if he can. So I really cannot understand that this parliament as the largest, as the most legislative body in Bosnia and Herzegovina, did not have the opportunity to state its position on this constitutional decision, namely to be clear about the activities that have been led in the past days, or months in relation to this Constitutional Court decision on the constitutionality of the people. The situation we're in right now is about the absurdity of everything that's going on in Bosnia. This decision solves, to some extent, some internal state, internal forms of state order, without us as Parliament having had the opportunity to come forward and say in the slightest of our views. Please, nice. By bringing this debate and the appointment of the session and bringing us into one teat to discuss this topic in this way, 5 seems to me to be a thought-out act, and I wonder why he did not show himself or why we did not make a statement about Mr Borić's proposal today at the Expansive College, which has made a concrete proposal that if we cannot influence the final outcome of the solution to this problem, and at the very least to pass one resolution that we will declare and which we will in some way give guidance to the entity parliaments in order to meet this problem in a satisfactory and constructive way. Bringing us into this way to say the overcrowded overcrowded by this parliamentary to tell the polemics and these activities that we are discussing in this way such an important problem for me seems so deplaced, it seems to me lame, etc. But in any case, I am very sad and hit that this parliament has not had the opportunity to discuss such serious and important things for Bosnia and Herzegovina and to take one of its positions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6775	Thank you, Mehtić. Here you go, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6776	Mr. Chairman, on what basis are you giving people your word? You said you were opening the 24th session by respecting a member of the Rules of Procedure who spoke of the session's obligation to be based on the number of signatures. You asked the MPs who gave up, the number fell under the rules of the established number and you continue to give your word, instead of saying that there were no conditions for holding the session and stop this torture. I beg you, Mr. Chairman, if you don't do it now, I'm going to leave the session, not because I want to, but because you're forcing me out of the session, because the session is gone.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6777	Thank you, Mr. Banjac. Who else is answering for a word? We'll finish up here soon enough.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6778	At the beginning of this session, a close college said that 24th session of the House of Representatives would be held today with the agenda point – Considering amendments to the entity constitutions and the Constitution for alignment, i.e. the alignment with the Constitutional Court Decision, which means that by respecting the signatures, the College opened the session and, in that context, the session had begun accordingly. And now no one can forbid to discuss the agenda point proposed by a group of MPs who have partly withdrawn their signature. I would once again like to say that I agree with my colleague Ljubić with MP Brk, who says there are people sitting here who carry hundreds of thousands of votes from the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And the House of Representatives, which is one of the most responsible homes, is the Supreme Legislative Authority in Bosnia and Herzegovina, has passed through the Constitutional Court Decision and has not spoken a single word about what is happening with the 6th alignment of the entity constitutions with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Someone would say an affair, someone would say all the honors, etc. But I think again, it will be a historic mistake and a failure by this Parliament not to make a single statement that the Constitutional Court's decision is final and binding. I guess we can also agree on this to be consistently implemented and to achieve identical solutions according to the agreement that has been generated in OHR. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6779	Mr. Majdandžić, then Mr. Šarganović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6780	Dear Chairman, I appreciate the time and our fatigue, but I must say that four years ago I was also a signator of the procedure before the Constitutional Court as an MP in the Republika Srpska Parliament. If I had been normally given a large lynch of many large ones, let's call the Hrvat from some parties and I survived it all and I expected here that this parliament would be professionally responsible and I would say and humanly take my stand. It's not, we agreed that the session would be extraordinary on Thursday and it was scheduled and that the session could not be postponed and not Thursday a religious holiday of Catholics. I've learned a lot of theology, maybe from a lot of people sitting here. The big Friday was already a holiday, but the big Thursday was not and the session was to be held and the one who delayed this bearing full responsibility was why at a time that would have no meaning had not been maintained and that we should seal the one and the attitude we should give. For that reason I am deeply disappointed to tell you honestly I would be asking myself a question of my coming, of my participation here, so disappointed. And not to put it this way, and I withdrew my proposal, my signature that that's not to be debated. I don't think tonight's a big deal for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6781	Thank you, sir. Šarganović and we'll determine the situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6782	I just think the opposite today is not an immeasurably respected gentlemen, his Excellency Mr. President of NATO's Parliamentary Assembly, Rafael Estelja, spoke to us here today. If he felt that today was the time to say something, why do we feel that today is not the time to say something? With that in mind, I suggest that today we adopt a shorter resolution than this little one with two members. The first member of that resolution would read – BiH Constitutional Court decisions are final and must be implemented. Point, I think that's where we have to say, and there's nothing to say that's why you wouldn't vote. 7 And second – The Presidency of BiH, the Council of Ministers and this esteemed College undertakes to actively and maximumly take up the implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision together with the presidents of entities, the government of entities and the assembly of entities, and that is if God does so tomorrow. And we've done our duty with honor and honesty, and I think it's very nice, short and efficient.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6783	Thank you. Please, gentlemen, I'm breaking the list of signatories and what's the worst when you get these signatures and then the service decrypts. I have to determine one here, let's go to the fact that the Party for BiH Club has given up and Mr. Đedović has. Mr. Malkić or Mehtić, who said he was a signer without reading it. Where's yours? Not Mr. Malkić. Who didn't I read? Who signed it without me finding it, please? What's your signature? So, Mr. Mehtić, you didn't sign it, did you? Gentlemen, the situation is this, a list of 16, if I'm wrong, correct me, because the service gave me so, she was struggling with this as to whether it would be to the hieroglyphics. Začiragić, Purić, Majdandžić, Begović and Mustafa Cuplov, it is the Party for BiH. The others were Ljubić Mariofil, Buturović Sead, Malkić Abdurahman, Brka Osman, Vilić Ramiz, Grabovac Miro, Baković Mirko, Vukić Zdenko, Amidžić Marko and Lozančić Ivo. I think that's 10.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6784	Eleven.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6785	I counted 10. But please ask the next question, please gentlemen, we have here, of those who have signed are not present at the session, allow me. I'm just gonna figure it out, maybe it doesn't matter, but it's being determined that they signed it, and they didn't come to the session, who wasn't present. Amidžić Marko is not present, Vukić Zdenko is not present, Baković Mirko is present, Grabovac Miro is not present, Vilić Ramiz is present, Malkić Abdurahman is present, Buturović is present, Ljubić Mariofil is not present, Buturović is not present. Gentlemen, let's put it this way from 16 signatories, the signature pulled 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 6 left it at 10. Of these 10 there are 1,2,3,4, and 6 MPs are present. Here you go, gentlemen. There are technically 10 signatures, we can work, but consider whether it makes sense that out of 16 signatories there are only 6 here, and they stayed or were not present. And they were looking for this session. They don't have to be there. I'm not talking about formal, I'm talking about essential. If you're looking for a session and you sign it, then it's your turn to be at that eight-session. Okay. Thank you very much. So we have 10 men. There are 10 signatures left, so we can clear that up too. There's a request, right 10? Please, the service has counted 10. I counted 10 lists. So we're moving on with the debate. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. Ten signatures left. Let's move on with the debate. Here you go. Mr. Đedović. 10 signatures of the draft agenda. Excuse me, Mr. Đedović. I don't think there's any point in applying so you don't get to be at the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6786	I'm sorry, but I'm obliged to say a few things since I have here a feeling misread this act. The first time I came here this morning, I didn't know today was the 24th session. It's not my fault, it's your fault here chairing. And I was obliged to know that. The second we got a session a few days ago, so it was delayed, so instead of her being this. The result of such a relationship with Dom is that there is no one from the international community, no one from the Council of Ministers, no one from the press. Who do we need to talk to right now? Says Mr. Mehtić's guidelines. The High Representative and the gentlemen who gave themselves what we wanted to talk about gave instructions very precise and very precise deadline. I don't want to judge it, I'm stating the facts. And I agree with my colleague Ljubić that there will be more to this. And so there will be words and speeches, but now that we're exhausting ourselves on what we have to say tonight, what anything a gram of milligrams is going to affect any behavior or decision tomorrow. I'd like to hear that, and we'll be sitting here talking by dawn. Here's my thanks.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6787	Thank you. Let's move on. Mr. Tošić, then Mr. Borić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6788	Mr. President, I respect that you have respected your business duty to open a session, but as reasonable people who know perfectly what tasks the Republika Srpska Parliament and Parliament of the Federation have to do tonight, there is absolutely nothing we can do about it. The other we don't have any starting points or any material. I also said this morning at the Extended College that when it comes to constitutional changes and the Sarajevo agreement that Republika Srpska had so much respect for 98% of that, and that the Federation had not even started to discuss it, without talking about cantons and so... so that if we enter the debate first we would have to have starting materials. The second one can't move in ten and a half hours of continuous work, as far as we've been doing since this morning that we came to the 9th session of an expert college. I don't think there's any single reason to do that, but let's agree to end this session, let's see what happens tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, because we know that the deadlines are accurate. We know that this election law must be declared. So in that part, it would be pointless to argue further. And I suggest we end this in a very correct way.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6789	Thank you, Mr. Tošić. Mr. Borić. Here you go, Mr. Borić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6790	The current leadership of this home today and the way and ambience that it was created are really not suitable for the topics that we had today, or for this resolution that we adopted by the child, and also for what was expected today on this important and important issue, and I really resent the chairman and the overall College for the really bad conduct of today's session. He would blame us for the MPs we really misbehaved today. I would like to say that every discussion on the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people is in fact, and it was led by political representatives, certain political parties, is a reduction of the Constitutional Court's decision itself, so there was a danger and that we in this Parliament would not reduce the Constitutional Court's decision and the intention of the SDA's Club was in this direction to condemn those who have reduced the Constitutional Court's decision and draw attention today to giving a clear message that the need for full implementation of the BiH Constitutional Court Decision in the whole of BiH in an identical manner. This is what today would satisfy the SDA MPs' club if one such attitude had been built in this House. So simply not to be reduced because it has no right for anyone to decide the Constitutional Court. And that is the meaning and total of our activities in this House today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6791	Thank you, Mr. Borić. Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6792	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, here I would really ask you as a friend and colleague to bring this session to an end. I join all those who spoke in the sense that tomorrow's important issue should be resolved and before that event I fear that our House of Representatives would fall into a political trap. You know that entity congregations need and are obliged to implement a Constitutional Court Decision that is final and binding. Meanwhile, leaders of political parties from both entities spoke in the OHR, and that is politics. They have to go back into the legal frameworks and we expect to finish this issue tomorrow. I insist and beg you as colleagues that we stay out of the legal jurisdiction of those concerned. That it was necessary for one of the international communities to ask this home to make a statement. Since we do not have the constitutional authority to resolve this 10 question as this Parliament, I think it is quite normal and correct to wait for this story to end that which has begun our entity assembly. I deeply believe that tomorrow will come to that solution. And why should we now open a political process in which we would give someone an appeal, an opinion, a position on the matter. I agree with others that we may have had to do this sooner, but believe me, no one is asking us to do it except give ourselves some importance and jurisdiction that we don't have objectively. On every issue in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we can take a stand and this is an important issue. But on the eve of tomorrow's events, I think it's really groundless and that no one when I say this word does not necessarily realize that I'm belittled and that it should cause a replica. Let's not get exhausted. If it comes to the fact that those involved do not resolve the issue, and it concerns all of us, then we will have the opportunity and time to put it on the agenda and then take our political stand and appeal to someone who does not. So I'd like to ask that we finish this session and not exhaust ourselves like we've tried here in some of these maybe half an hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6793	Thank you, Mr. Gligorić. Can we please see if anyone else is answering for a word? Mr. Šarganović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6794	I would suggest a break while I make up the text resolution at this point on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6795	Don't ask Mr. Šarganović. Well, haven't you prepared a resolution if you are? Whoever requested the session was obliged to prepare the material for the session and resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6796	I've got it in my pen. Just to multiply.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6797	Let's hear what you wrote. Don't take endless breaks. Read us what you wrote. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6798	On the basis of Articles 121 and 122, what we had previously on that resolution, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose a resolution. Article 1 – The decision of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitutional Court on the consistency of the people in the whole of BiH must be implemented and agreed by entity parliaments. 11 Article 2 – The state authorities of BiH, the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers of BiH and the College of the House of Representatives commit themselves to the maximum engagement in the implementation of the BiH Constitutional Court Decision in entity parliaments together with the presidents of entity governments entities, an entity assembly college.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6799	I'm begging you. Can I ask you a question to my colleague, Šarganović? I have an official interpretation of OHR's opinion that the views of the entity assemblies do not oblige MPs in the House of Representatives. So neither can we oblige entity congregations. These are the two OHR congregations and the OHR interpretation is fully in line with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6800	But this isn't directly to them.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6801	We cannot oblige the institutions of entities nor are the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina the Presidency and the Council of Ministers in charge of the implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision to the entity assemblies or anything they can do in accordance with the Constitution. It's such a constitutional position. If I'm wrong, tell me, but it's true.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6802	I can engage Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6803	What can I do to Mr. Šarganović?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6804	Let them think what they're gonna do, not us.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6805	Let's see if we have a resolution to make. Give me one sentence that has some form. Don't do what, let's get into jurisdiction. We can't get gentlemen into the jurisdiction of other institutions, entity institutions we can't give guidance. Please, the Presidency cannot affect the entity parliaments or the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6806	Can I have the president?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6807	Come on, Mr. Ljubić. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6808	Dear MPs, I think we've been brought up tonight and today into a situation where everything we're discussing today that doesn't have any form, any weight that's all debateable and I don't know in this situation I'd rather we discuss tomorrow or so. But if we adopt something, I believe that if we can conclude anything in that resolution whether the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina's decision on the constitutionality of the people in the whole territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina is final and binding and the House of Representatives asking the entity parliaments to implement this decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6809	He can only call.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6810	Or call, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6811	He can call, we can't ask.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6812	Here's the call.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6813	That could be the attitude if you don't mind. Can we do that? Do you agree? I ask once again Mr. Ljubić to read again that we all hear and that we can plead. Please, Mr. Ljubić with what he's asking you to put in a phone call. I ask you to respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please, let's hear Mr. Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6814	Bosnia and Herzegovina's Constitutional Court decision on the whole territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina is final and binding. The House of Representatives calls on the entity parliaments to consistently implement the decision or to implement the Constitutional Court's decision on constitutionality. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-1.u6815	Please, can we accept that? So Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives calls, calls. In conclusion, here's the conclusion. Nomoy. Please, let's get out of this. We're calling, let's adopt this as a conclusion, and we've solved the problem. Please, it can be a conclusion. 13 Please, we have a proposal for Mr. Mariofil Ljubić's conclusion. I'm putting it to a vote. Who's in? We've got to get out of here. I'm asking you to get out of this situation. Thank you. Who's against it? What on earth are you against? Thank you. Who's being held back? I'd like the results of the vote. So the House of Representatives' conclusion calls on the entity's parliaments to have the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina's decision. That's it. Sit down, please. Let's finish. Please present 30, for 25, versus 3, abstention 1. Does he need an entity vote? I'd like an entity vote. Who's from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina for? Thank you. Which one of the MPs from Republika Srpska is for? Thank you. Give me the results of the vote. The results of the vote in terms of the conclusion proposed by Mr Ljubić : - Present 30, for 25, v. 3, abstention 1. From the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 20, Republika Srpska 5 for. I find that the conclusion proposed by Mr Ljubić calling on the entity parliaments to implement the Constitutional Court Decision of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted. Gentlemen, before I conclude this session, I would like to inform you that according to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a rotation will be carried out at the chair. This is the last session. If something doesn't happen in the next few days, let's hope it doesn't. The next session will be held and prepared by Mr. Ljubić. Thank you, gentlemen. The seat is over. The session was completed at 1950 hours.
