ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7549	Gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 29th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ahead of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, the OSCE, the European Union, the Observation Mission, representatives of the BiH Embassy who expressed interest in monitoring the work of the Parliamentary Assembly, a representative of the Central Bank, were invited to attend the meeting. I find that there are enough MPs present at the session to be able to decide. The absence was justified by the esteemed representative Mr Mustafa Cuplov, also, the esteemed representative Mr Tihomir Gligorić announced a shorter delay. The seat has a quorum for work and decision-making. Once again, I welcome all present representatives and guests as well as representatives of public information funds. You gentlemen have received a draft agenda in the invitation for the session. I'm obliged to make a few preliminary remarks regarding the draft agenda. Yesterday, we held a session of an extended college to prepare for this session. Due to the new circumstances in relation to the draft agenda you received in the call for the session, there have been some changes. Point 7 of this proposal has been removed from the Joint Commission's report on the achievement of an agreement on the uniform text of the management law. This is because the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly has not yet appointed members to this joint committee. The item on the 16th proposed agenda, which you have received, is the proposal for an operational plan, meeting the obligations for BiH's accession to the Council of Europe, which are the proposings of the House of Peoples. On a proposal from the Commission for Foreign Affairs of this House, the General College concluded that it would call on the Council of Ministers to prepare a review of the obligations ahead of us, with deadlines until certain conditions are met. The next amendment that we have classified as an agreement on a development loan between BiH and the International Development Association as part of the approval for ratification of the agreement. It's about an agreement that's wanted by character, which has also been accepted by the committee in charge of this home, which I hope you've received a report from this commission. You received the text of this agreement earlier, and today you received a summary of the agreement that we received from the Presidency after the Presidency received from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 2 Also, a request from the Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of BiH with a customs tariff in accordance with Article 105 has been included on the agenda. Business. You're that request with the bill, I hope you get it. We also received an ex post letter from the Council of Ministers proposing amendments to amend that law. I note that this is a business obligation when a request under Article 105 comes that the chairman should propose and present it at the first next session, that is today. Also, regardless of what we discussed and discussed at the College on another bill. It is about the proposal for a law on the movement and stay of foreigners and asylum required under Article 104, meaning the shortened deadlines. We in the College have not quite reached some agreement on this, but by analysing the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the chairman is obliged to present this request at the first next session, so I propose this proposal for a law on the movement and residence of foreigners and asylum to declare the request for it to be discussed under Article 104. So, emergency procedures, but with those short deadlines, they're in half the deadlines. Under point 3 we have premiumed the report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2001 and the report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for period 1. 3rd month of the 2002 budget. This is what we did, given the importance of the point itself and the consideration of this report. I'm opening a debate on the agenda proposal. So, you have now received a new consolidated agenda by adding this proposal and requesting that the House of Representatives be made known on the request of the Council of Ministers that the proposal for a law on the movement and residence of foreigners and asylum be considered in accordance with Article 104. So, short deadlines, split deadlines. I think that law was divided here on the bench this morning. So, he's not being debated, he's just arguing that the deadlines are cut. Who's answering for a word? Until you... I note that we will take a break somewhere beyond 12 and a half to prepare the hall for a joint session of both homes, where the High Representative, Mr. Eždaun, will address. Then you'll have a chance to ask the Voskom representative questions, so please keep that in mind. Is anyone answering for a change? Mr. Miro Grabovac Titan has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7550	Mr. Chairman and gentlemen, I would refer to this proposal on amendments to the Customs Tariffs Act, given that it is required to follow Article 105. It seems to me that it has become a practice of passing these laws in this house under Article 105, where it is not possible to intervene with amendments, which I believe is not good in the truth and what is important in this 9th time that I remember a customs tariff law was obtained where it was sought under Article 105. We have now received a re-addition of that same law under Article 105, which says that the Council of Ministers is allowed to act as an amendment to the law, and it is not possible for MPs at all to turn MPs into pure ironing machines, and I believe that this is not good. If the Council of Ministers has had since the 9th time to intervene with the amendments, it is logical that MPs should be allowed to act as MPs. Therefore, I think that this law, regardless of its urgency, should at least go according to Article 104. Thank you. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7551	I thank the honourable representative, Mr Miri Grabovac Titan, but I note once again, according to the Rules of Procedure, I am obliged to offer it to home to make the House known. Normally, if Dom doesn't accept that request, then there's a regular procedure. The word has a respected representative, Mr Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7552	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I thought we were going to end with the last session with the humiliation and appreciation of this house. However, today’s agenda seems to continue with the same practice. We see here under points 8, 9 and 10 that there are laws on the agenda that haven't been to any kind of rush. So, they weren't in the mood, and probably these laws or similar ones will be on the entity level. So now we need to adopt laws that have never come into any procedure at all. I can agree in part that if we couldn't agree on some legal project that he was imposing, but something that wasn't at all in the procedure, that we weren't up the rilic to say anything but impose, I'll say that opinion because of my face and my dignity and those people who voted for me. I can't be so humiliated as to vote for those laws that haven't been in any procedure at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7553	I thank the honourable representative, Mr Miloš Jovanović. Maybe it's just for notes under 8 and 9. It's about laws that were temporarily declared by the High Representative. Is anyone else answering for a word? The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Omer Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7554	... members of the Presidency, the Working Presidency, colleagues and colleagues, unlike fellow Titan, I think that the Customs Tariff Act can be adopted by this House by an urgent procedure, because we have already adopted this law in almost identical text, and it has not been adopted because the House of Peoples did not have consent to its text. In this new text, we only have two short changes to oil and I see no reason why we are now re-emphasizing the amendments to the original text and through the commission in this house refused and accepted in full the text proposed by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7555	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Omer Filipović. Rijeka has Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, minister at the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7556	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, fellow ministers, I am obliged to remind you that the customs tariff, i.e. the law on amendments and additions to the BiH Customs Tariff Act, has long been in the pragmatic procedure. At that time, the previous Council of Ministers' Meeting sent 4 to the Parliament of the Proposed Tsaife, which meant the over-dwelling of the over-the-counter as a protection mechanism in the customs tariff, i.e.... a tariff for reasons of very low customs protection in BiH. In particular, for reasons of strengthening BiH's negotiating position in the upcoming and bilateral and especially in multilateral trade arrangements. The previous examination of this law in the parliamentary procedure resulted in a failure to adopt the law on the grounds that both homes of Parliament had adopted a tariff with amendments that were not in line with international norms and standards. The Council of Ministers, meanwhile, has introduced in some important aspects, i.e. with some important absects, in some way respecting the changes in particularly European norms and standards in certain tariff positions and re-routed tariffs by procedure 105. Why there was a subsequent, ex post intervention by the Council of Ministers. I will just point out that, in relation to the tariff that has come to you in the procedure with a request for consideration under procedure of 105, KAFAO has a technical mandate in this area, the International Monetary Fund and OHAR have asked that even in these two items that were not in line with European norms and tariff standards fully adapt to international norms and standards, above all European norms and standards, or European Union standards and general international norms, which would reduce the spectrum of exceptions that could reduce the efficiency of customs and customs policy in BiH. It is two amendments that were subsequently submitted to you yesterday, adopted by the Council of Ministers. So, just aligning with European harmonised standards and I propose, indeed, because of the need for the urgent adoption of this law, and because of the activities that we have in front of us regarding... the items of adoption of protection, i.e. the instruments of protection of domestic production, that this Parliament as it had heard last time, that is, this House, as it had heard last time, has adopted the tariff under the procedure as requested by the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7557	I thank the minister, Mrs Azra Hadžiahemtović. Is anyone else answering for a word? Word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7558	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, I am sorry that it was not included in the agenda for today's session of amendments and amendments to the customs tariff law, so I did not bring it, that I could now read the arguments, but as much as my memory serves, I remember well that last year the amendments were not accepted because where I have tabled the amendments, and they were, exactly, protecting domestic production and it was said that in the second month, the Council of Ministers would rediscover and give that law to the adoption, with respect to the amendments that we have proposed because I was not yet amended. But I don't understand one thing. A law comes under Article 105 and the Council of Ministers intervenes with amendments yesterday, or we get it today. So, the Council of Ministers can intervene with the amendments, we can't intervene with the amendments, and there's something illogical about it, and I don't understand what we're going to vote on. Are we going to vote article 105 for that law of the 9th and then vote again for the one we got today what the package is going to do. So, two votes should do us by some procedure of doing business to make it one whole again. I think it's not good that this 5 law does not protect domestic production, which is why we broke down last year regardless of what we have to adapt to, the fact is that we have to protect domestic production and that we cannot even adapt to the economy to get involved because we're going to be swallowed up and that's what we discussed last year. But I don't have any here that I can really throw out because I didn't bring the materials because they weren't in the agenda. However, we were met at the College this morning, according to Article 105. I'm asking what, is this law, where did this come from? I do not see these logics, if the Council of Ministers intervenes with amendments to its law, it means that it is not a well-prepared matter, and MPs are unable to intervene on this law which is and how important for BiH and the development of the economy in BiH, and I believe that this is not a good thing and I believe that, regardless of the haste, if it could wait and I am obliged to remember the conclusion that in the second month it will re-emerge with the customs tariff law and it has waited until today to apply Article 105. I think it should be returned to follow Article 104 so that amendments can be intervened. Those who pass by, so that we do not have representatives who have an obligation to warn us of such things to serve only as machinery. Then buy one voting machine we'll all go home.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7559	I would like to thank Mr. Miri Grabovac's esteemed representative. Mrs Hadžiahmetović has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7560	I thank you, Mr Grabovac is well understood in tariff and I will only make more clarifications to Parliament for the sake of understanding why I consider this tariff a safeguard mechanism of domestic production which, of course, is not the only one. A repertuary of protective mechanisms can be used after the tariff has been adopted and we would already have that if, in the earlier term, Parliament had adopted a triumph in both homes in accordance with what the Council of Ministers had asked for. I would just like to remind myself that today's applicable customs tariff law, which began in 1998, entails an average customs duty on imports into BiH of 6.8%. Lowest customs burdens. Given that, at the very low customs protection in BiH, the Council of Ministers took protective measures in early 1999, based on the provisions of the Law on Foreign Trade Policy, and these are special import taxes, i.e. advances. This was the only option to impose additional import burdens on the basis of the legal commitment, as clearly in the law says the BiH Council of Ministers prescribes a change of protection measures on the product when it finds that such a product is imported into BiH in increased quantities, absolutely and relatively, in relation to domestic production under such conditions, under which domestic production is caused and threatened by the threat of serious domestic production, i.e. domestic production of the same or similar products. Such measures may only be introduced in a limited period of time. However, our temporary measures so far have continued on several occasions. Therefore, the existing tariff with minor amendments, if there is a need for an explanation, I will explain the content and the amendments have only been made in terms of showing with, in the meantime, amended European norms and standards, i.e. harmonised rules of the European Union. The existing tariffs shall contain prelemanes which are left, i.e. to add to customs burdens in order to protect domestic production, of course, not the only mechanism. What confuses you, that is, the more confusing the messengers with your interpretation, I repeat. Meanwhile, since the Council of Ministers referred to Parliament with a request from 105th review of the KAFAO procedure together with the IMF and OHR, it has been the institutions with which we co-ordinated, either on the basis of a technical mandate or a second term in BiH, that is to say, 6 adjustments of tariffs to international norms and standards, intervened in terms of, or suggested that the two items fully align the tariff of discard with the European harmonised rules. In order not to replace it, it is the customs tariff in Section II of the special provision. Goods for certain product types in unassembled condition for industrial installation and point (c) relating to medical equipment. So two technical changes. Unless, indeed, this Parliament does not consider this to be necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7561	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Grabovac, and let the honourable representative, Mr Damir Mašić, be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7562	Of course, you have the law in front of you, and you've done it, and you can speak it correctly, because I'm in a speaking position, in a subordinate position, so I can't tell you exactly, but I'm going to talk out of memory. Tell me how home production regarding wine grape production is protected, since we have the Neretva Valley and other areas where wine production is and how good it is. It is possible to produce wine. Whether the production is protected when it comes to wine, wine production, or grapes for wine. The second question is whether it is protected, or whether it is possible for our domestic producers who are able to produce liquefied or similar alcoholic beverages in the Bosnia and Herzegovina area, whether they are enabled or in a subordinate position compared to those who give the licence. Whether it is paid to give the manufacturer in Bosnia and Herzegovina or directly to import it, imports into Bosnia and Herzegovina, the liquefied ones, in particular, in that part alone. Which I, as far as I know, is not protected that it is more rewarding to introduce production in Germany in Italy in Austria, Slovenia and to introduce liqueurs in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but given that it is not protected means that part, but to give it a license to produce in Bosnia and Herzegovina that we create new jobs and employ people. Here are specific questions, and this part of me is incomprehensible, I find it incomprehensible that one law comes before and another that comes for the same. Two, so I said, I don't think it's coordinated this part well. If there's been an intervention, the one you're talking about, I think that's the problem. Secondly, we have had time to prepare since last year when the law passed this House of Representatives and concluded that in the second month, as I remember well in the second or the beginning of the second month, the law of this procedure will come again where, or the Council of Ministers will consider where amendments that are not accepted by MPs will be discussed when that law is adopted. Here, give me these two answers when it comes to these liqueurs and when it comes to protecting the production of wine, since we have safe in Bosnia and Herzegovina areas where these wines can be produced. Is there protection in these customs tariffs? Thank you. 7 Thank you, I would suggest something if we stick to the Rules of Procedure. It's about the agenda. Article 105(2) of the request referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be submitted by the Chairman of the House directly to the House at its first session. So I did it. Now it's about the agenda. I think we started discussing this point as if it was already in the agenda. Well, I don't think we should talk about it. If there's anyone out there who's looking to take down a point, he says I'm looking for a takedown of that point, but not to get into the essence. Yes after, and when she comes, if it comes to the agenda, then we discuss it, and then we'll vote for this to be discussed for 105th if there's a need. Here, he's got a good word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7563	Poslanik Grabovac, just a brief explanation. Although I have understood this more well as a parliamentary question and an answer, more because of the decision on this agenda item to other MPs. If you or anyone else in this room thinks that only customs tariff is protected by domestic production, it doesn't understand things. Other protection mechanisms, even in the repertoire of protection or incentive mechanisms for domestic production, are the least needed to be found in customs and customs tariffs because it is a decreasing revenue per budget in general in the economy and the second least used instrument of economic policy used specifically to protect domestic production. Thirdly, you should also know that customs burdens are as they are, why they are so low, perhaps you should ask the previous set of authorities for what reasons etc. We can't increase. The only thing we can do is get these overruns to at least partially protect domestic production. I speak part of it and strengthen the negotiating position of Bosnia and Herzegovina in international bilateral and multilateral trade arrangements to convert it into a complex customs tariff. For specific questions you will get a concrete answer. As well as the opportunities in that protection, i.e. the promotion of domestic production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7564	Thank you. Mr. Mašić has given up. Okay. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Brka. But I'd like to ask you to leave all these discussions concretely when it comes to the agenda, because we'll have a chance.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7565	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Chairman of the Presidency, dear colleagues, I can't help but get the impression that I don't have to say what I'm about to say here. I, as a member of the Human Rights Commission last Wednesday, was in Odzak, with me was Mrs. Kamberović. And I want to bring one fact here and ask a question, it's true that I'm not an economic expert, I'm building on myself right now, but this is a problem that's not an economic expert and who's not the Minister of Economy sees the problem. Namely, on my request to the chairman of the Municipality of 8 Odzak, the president of the municipality standing with the treated surfaces, he replied that 90% of the area was not processed. And then I said, well, it's probably not demined, he says no, there's no mines, but it's unprocessed, what my brain has stopped at. Look, it's Posavina, and if it's 90% unprocessed, I just couldn't talk. I couldn't think of it as normal to be a normal man. It's just like that. Please, that's why I think Mr. Titan is right about this. I'm interested in whether this law will continue in Odjak to be 90% of the most fertile Bosnian ornaise not processed. If it's the protection of domestic production, then to me, I just don't get it. And to me, it doesn't matter if it doesn't have anything to do with what it has to do with it. Protecting domestic production. How does it not matter? Customs and protection, subsidies. It must have something to do with God. I don't know. I don't get it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7566	I would like to thank Mr. Brk's esteemed representative. We don't have any more agenda applications. So you got this agenda. As far as I've seen here, there were no objections, except that I have suggested this one point to plead in accordance with Article 104 to discuss the Proposal for a Law on movement and residence of foreigners and asylum. So, since there have been these changes, I suggest we make a statement on the full agenda. Is that okay? You can't ask, you can't just ask for a download, you can't get the Proposer to decide how it's gonna go. Do you? Come on out. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7567	I suggest that the Customs Tariffs Act, meaning to be removed from the agenda and to be referred to the procedure referred to in Article 104. I'm just saying it differently. It means it's coming off.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7568	I would like to thank Mr. Grabovac's esteemed representative. We can ask him not to enter the agenda, and whether he will be 104 is decided by the Proposer, and it is clear to us if he does not go through Article 105 when he comes there, if he is in the agenda to follow the regular procedure. This request by the Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina shall be subject to an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. Is the Rules of Procedure off today's agenda? Thank you. Do you mind? Thank you. The abstentions? So you don't need an entity. Of the 37 that are present 12 is for, 14 versus, 11 abstentions. So you shouldn't go. So he stays on the agenda. 9 Who is it to include a request from the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on the movement and residence of foreigners and asylum in accordance with Article 104? Who's in? To be placed in the agenda. Thank you. Do you mind? No abstentions? There are no 37 who voted, 37 voted for, so we're putting this request on the agenda, and we'll talk about it later when it comes to the agenda. Now let's get all set up. Since there have been changes and additions to the agenda, I put the agenda as a whole to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? No abstentions? Of the 37 who voted 34 for, 3 abstentions means the agenda was adopted. There's no need for an entity vote. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad. 1. The log from the 28th session of the House record you're hoping to get. Does he have any objections or suggestions or suggestions regarding this record? If we don't, I suggest we make a statement. Who's for the record? Thank you. Do you mind? No abstentions? One sign of 37 who voted, 36 for one vote abstention. So we adopted. Thank you. We're moving on to the second item of the Ad agenda. 2. Advocacy questions and answers whether any of the esteemed MPs. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Sead Avdić. If anyone else wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7569	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, dear guests, forgive me for perhaps a little longer, but in order to be shorter, I will read these two questions, the parliamentary questions which we refer to the Council of Ministers. 1. The adoption of the CIPS Act, the establishment of a project and the funds provided by citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are welcomed with encouragement and optimism. We remember it well when we did it. It was a step by the Council of Ministers and Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which, on the 10th time, gradually introduced without a visa regime for citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is more this home is responsible for the successful management and implementation of the CIP project. In this respect, I consider it necessary for the Council of Ministers to provide urgent full information on the establishment and management of the CIPS project with all relevant data such as costing with customs duties, taxes, training, local labour, etc. by way of the distribution of work by SIMENS and contracts with software manufacturers, project directors and project experts, as well as tendering, etc.itd. The Social Democratic Party believes that all of this is previously aimed at respecting transparency, to speed up the implementation of the project in order for the system of protection of personal data and citizens to begin to be realised in practice as of 1 November 2002 and to disable any forms of occurrence made in the press and possible abuses. 2. Although we are also faced with alleged statements by the Prime Minister Dr Prlić that his wife is the owner of OPTIMA company in Mostar, which is doing a part of the CIPS project. He denies any personal involvement or possible abuse of the position of prime minister in getting that job for his wife's firm. However, the statement inflicted great political and moral damage to the Council of Ministers, including to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament, and in this regard I believe it is urgently necessary to show Dominister Prlić about the truthfulness and allegations of media writing about his statement. That the Council of Ministers, under two, also determines its member's resignation and under 3. In the case of the truthfulness of the report in the writing of the press on the statement by Dr Prilić, the Prime Minister of Foreign Trade, the Social Democratic Party of the Prime Minister Prilić, to offer, as an expression of moral and political responsibility, the resignation of the Council of Ministers and the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as clearly adopted in the Law on Conflict of Interest as clearly as clearly sanctioning such cases. The law was also passed in order to express the need to establish moral criteria in the functioning and operation of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so that it must be maximum affirmation regardless of its application only since October 2002. And finally sublime what these two questions are parliamentaryly given. It means once again that the SDP of BiH in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly expects it to receive full information from the Council of Ministers on the progress of the CIPS project in the first session. The SDP BiH presidency has also established the current level of knowledge of this project, particularly information available to the public that could even compromise the implementation of this project itself and implement it means simply jeopardising what is most important for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the importance of the project. This means that the implementation of the CIPS project is one of the main preconditions for Bosnia and Herzegovina and its citizens to finally make a significant step from a time when this country is treated as a temporary, unreliable formation and a potential threat to stability and peace in the region and this part of Europe. Finally, at the same time, the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina would return to the sense of security and full transparency in full transparency and continuous public action and full public reporting on every step taken to realise the CIPS project, as it must not be brought under question. It is obvious that the project is opposed by those who are 11 against strengthening the state institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and those who are trying to achieve their personal profit and interest in the expense of legality. So once again provide means full transparency in the management of the CIPS project, and in this context we expect these two information, i.e. information and clarity and the Council of Ministers and personally and personally dominister Dr Jadranka Prlić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7570	I would like to thank Mr. Avdić's distinguished representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Brka, and let the honourable representative of Mr. Senad Šarganović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7571	Dear Presidency, I will not have a question, but I have one initiative for the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to prepare and put into the procedure of the law, which would allow Members of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to retire in 1990 and later in the multi-party elections under certain conditions provided for by the law. According to my knowledge, such laws have all democratic states that have resolved the status of their MPs, and I know for a fact that such laws have the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Turkey that have applied it for many years. A few years before the multiparty elections, we had it as a group of provisions in the Retirement and Disabilities Insurance Act called an exceptional pension. This benefit was not only for MPs, but for one number of scientific and cultural workers as well as responsible citizens working on responsible functions in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions. I am deeply convinced that such a law should be passed, because with the mandate of MPs who meet the conditions for retirement under that law, a smooth transition of MPs to permanent retirement would also be relieved, and in no case would be at the expense of their continued useful social engagement. I therefore ask the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to prepare a draft of the law and, if possible, quickly refer it to the legislative procedure in order to convene this parliamentary assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and adopt it. I am aware that any MP or group of MPs may propose such a law, but I personally think it is most appropriate for the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to propose it. I'll contribute this to the president.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7572	I would like to thank Mr. Brk's esteemed representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Senad Šarganović, and let the distinguished representative of Mrs Branislava Ferzanović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7573	Gentlemen and President-in-Office of the Presidency, Mr Ministers of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, on behalf of fellow Members of the boriti 12 Bjelobrk, I will read his parliamentary question, and then, since he is a little late, he will come a little later. On Friday, 12.7.2002, an organised group of 37 Belgrade citizens headed for a memorial in Srebrenica. After an orderly crossing the border in Ljubljana, Republika Srpska police stopped them, after two hours of keeping on the open road, RS police ordered them to return to Yugoslavia at 14 hours. Despite my, or his intervention with Minister Jovičić to allow this group to attend a memorial in Srebrenica, he replied, or he would not allow it for security reasons. I ask for information from a)The BiH Council of Ministers - what limits of freedom of movement through Bosnia and Herzegovina do Serbia-Montenegro enjoy? (b) President of Republika Srpska – what measures will he take for the safe and free movement of citizens of Serbia-Montenegro following Republika Srpska after an incident caused by Republika Srpska police? c) The government of Republika Srpska – which had the security data to prohibit a group of 37 Belgrade citizens from entering Bosnia and Herzegovina and Srebrenica, particularly as most of the groups were women and d) to the International Police of the AIPTF – what they saw during their assistance in the dispute between the group of citizens of Belgrade and Republika Srpska police. Ambassador Bjelobrk Bjelabrk. My questions are as follows: 1. The Užlebic border crossing at the Bihac-Bosnia and Herzegovina route. Lower Lapac- Republic of Croatia has been put into office and has helped many citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia, as well as many foreign tourists. Question – When will the GP of Užlebić be provided with electricity given the proximity of the power lines? 2. When will the construction of the Izacic border crossing be completed? 3. What about the investment of the reconstruction of the Union railway provided by the Japanese government, given the great importance and profitability of this railway? 4. When will the legal procedure release the Law on Education at BiH level in accordance with the joint and agreed proposal of the FBiH and RS entities, which was made on a proposal from the Federal Ministry of Education in accordance with the Bologna Declaration?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7574	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Senad Šarganović. The word has a distinguished representative, Mrs Branislava Ferzanović, and may the honourable representative Mr Mašić be prepared. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7575	Ladies and gentlemen, one question that is very current these days. With regard to the request of the union of graphic workers and my own assessment of the necessity and protection of domestic production, I ask for urgent information to be provided - who also on behalf of whom gave the foreign company the job of printing ballots? As there are all technical assumptions for doing this job in the printing works in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I believe there is also the responsibility of the contractors of this job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7576	I thank the honourable representative, Mrs Ferzanović. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Mašić, and let the honourable representative, Mr. Marko Amidžić, be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7577	Dear members of the Bureau, members of the Council of Ministers and colleagues from Parliament. I have one quick question. Is it true that there are 50 KM bills in circulation with the character of the UN's most wanted indictee, Radovan Karadžić, and if so, who is responsible for this? I read this information in today's number of Daily Avaz on page 11. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7578	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Mašić. Word has a respected representative, Mr. Marko Amidžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7579	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, it may not be appropriate to say what I am about to say, but it is certainly in line with the Rules of Procedure of this House. Namely, the Rules of Procedure define the position of MPs, clubs, homes, commissions, etc. and defines the right of MPs to ask a representative question to initiate the initiative, etc. I understand here in some matters the introduction and rights of the leadership of political parties in BiH to lay their conclusions before the House to consider them. I, in a political sense, understand that. So, I'm not denying that possibility, but I'm asking the people who put it out to define it as their own representative issue, that they define their personal relationship against this issue or the relationship between the political party's political party's club that participates or holds power in this parliament. It may be formal, but, from the point of view of Parliament's determination, it is important to me. Secondly, I probably asked my representative question in an incomprehensible language at the previous session of the House of Representatives or in advance, because I could not get an answer to it objectively either at the session or later. So I decided to take this opportunity to say that my representative question at today's session would be defined by silence. Respecting the public and your fellow MPs, she, you see, was short enough and that's my question, so empty space, because that answer will probably come from those to whom I asked the question so that the answer would be at least in this case in line with the question. So much and thank you. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7580	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Marko Amidžić. The word has been respected by Mr Miloš Jovanović. Anyone else want one?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7581	I also don't have a new question, but I'm simply asking not to repeat now the questions I asked a few months ago, so four are questions I didn't get an answer to, I just ask. Is there a time limit to which it must be, a deadline to answer the question. So I would once ask for answers to questions that have already been asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7582	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Jovanović. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7583	Mr. Chairman of the Presidency, chairing our home, fellow MPs, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, I refer my question to the College of our home and ask the College why it does not respond to the identification of one party or a group of political parties in Parliament with the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH? A colleague Avdić, asking a question, related to the CIPS project and its implementation, has, among other things, found that the involvement of certain funds with OPTIMA has been caused by political and material damage to the Council of Ministers and political and material damage to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, because, as an MP of this assembly, I feel absolutely no responsibility, therefore, and I believe that it is absolutely unacceptable and unprepared that issues, for issues related to the implementation of the CIPS project, are linked to the responsibility of the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7584	I would like to thank Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija, the esteemed representative. For correcting the allegations, the honourable representative, Mr Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7585	It's quite clear, I didn't mention any material responsibility or damage, I said moral and political and not material. You said it was material. Not material. I'm sorry. You said moral and material. I said moral and political. That's quite clear. Secondly, I have the right to an opinion, Mr. Neimarlija. I respect yours, too, but you have, too, just in spite of what I said. It is my opinion, and I believe it has been done how not to harm the BiH Parliamentary Assembly morally and politically, because it has given the Council of Ministers confidence and in this context I feel responsibility for not. Thank you. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7586	I would like to thank Mr. Avdić's distinguished representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija, and may the honourable representative of Mr. Bilbija be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7587	Indeed, I apologize if I used the word materially as a mistake. A colleague Avdić really spoke of political and moral responsibility. I have the full right to ask my colleague Avdić to hold responsible those who have chosen the Council of Ministers in this case and to accept the responsibility of those who appointed him and not to transfer political and moral responsibility to the entire Parliament. It is my question that I have referred to the College why in this case it does not respond to the identification of a group or one party with the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, because I, as an MP and party to which I belong, have absolutely no responsibility or moral responsibility.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7588	I would like to thank Mr. Neimarlija's esteemed representative. Rijeka has a respected representative, Mr Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7589	I did not speak at all of Parliament's moral and political responsibility. I spoke from Prime Minister Prlić and I said that Parliament is partly responsible for what is happening in the Council of Ministers and for the implementation of the CIPS project, and in this context, if I was inaccurate in the formulation, I apologize, but I was talking about a new political responsibility, first of all, the prime minister in the Council of Ministers and nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7590	I would like to thank Mr. Avdić's distinguished representative. Rijeka has a distinguished representative, Mr. Bilbija, and let the distinguished representative of Mrs. Violeta Kamberović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7591	Dear gentlemen, since we have verified several agreements in the transport of goods and passengers in the past Parliament, let's say, with Switzerland, Germany and some other countries, I would like to take the opportunity to ask a question to the representatives of the Council of Ministers, I see that Mr Mihajlović is present. Did the Council of Ministers do anything to prepare, or sign the Agreement with the countries surrounding BiH, say the SRJ, because we're dealing with Switzerland and the others and I, who live in Gradisca, have no chance of taking one bus on a regular road across Croatia, I arrive in Belgrade in four hours, I have to travel eight hours worse roads and waste more time. If the minister is able to answer this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7592	I'd like to thank Mr. Bilbija's esteemed representative. Whether Minister Mihajović, here is Minister Mihajlović, will try to answer immediately. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7593	Dear Presidency, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable ministers, allow me to give a brief reply to the honourable MP, Željka Bilbija. It is also under way that the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, is working on its programme, among other things, to conclude certain contracts and agreements in the area of traffic. Talks are under way at the level of experts between the SRJ and BiH. The first phase of the conversation is over. We expect that, at the next meeting of the Council of Ministers, we will establish a proposal and refer the BiH presidency to a further procedure, i.e. very quickly, I hope, to be ratified in this House. Therefore, that part of the work is in the final phase, we expect only to comply with this procedure on the Presidency and ratification of Parliament. As far as Croatia is concerned, the talks are also over, and I hope that we will soon remove all these obstacles that the honourable MP has been saying that we will be able to establish a normal communication traffic eating of our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7594	I would like to thank Minister Mihajović for his reply, and he has Mrs Violeta Kamberović's esteemed representative. Is anyone else checking in?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7595	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidency, at our last session of the House of Representatives, I promised to ask one question, and here I am taking the opportunity to ask it now. It's addressed to the College and Presidents of the Clubs, and it says so. How long will individual MPs, MPs, leave the meetings before they expire without reason? I think everyone who sits here, sits at the will of the people, and we should act accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7596	I thank the distinguished representative, Mrs. Violeta Kamberović. This concludes the point of asking parliamentary questions. I suggest we take a break up to one hour, until the beginning of this joint session, since there are some technical things to be done here, and then we continue after the meeting. We're standing at point 3. Ad.3. Report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2001 and the report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for the period 1 to 3 months 2002 Does the Council of Ministers have any need to explain? [[PAUZA]] There's no need. I'm opening a debate on this report. You've all received a report, and we're all adopting this report in the end. We've been given the opinion of our Finance and Budget Committee. Did everyone get it? The Commission recently proposed to this House of Representatives to accept a report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2001. 17 The Commission also proposes that we accept the report on the implementation of the institution's budget for period 1. - 3. 2002. Who's answering for a word? The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Vilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7597	Gentlemen Chairman, gentlemen Ministers, to the soul of one -- two as many as there are here, colleagues, I would like to say a few words, because I am also a member of the Finance and Budget Committee and I must show my dissatisfaction today, not only with this report, but as we do so in this mandate. If you remember us last year, before New Year's Eve, we adopted the 2001 budget reglans somewhere, and then the budget for this year, you know, by the emergency procedure. In other words, very little or no room to discuss this very important problem at all. Today we have the 2001 budget on the agenda. Today is 16th of July 2002, so with a very significant delay. Furthermore, if the delay is this way, here is how it is, at least that an audit has been made regarding the implementation of the budget for the past year and that this parliament has something to discuss. In fact today, we can only take this into account and wait for the revision to take place and see how that dinar was spent, whether it was correct, valid or continued practice as we had in the previous period. On the Commission, I have to say, in fact, there was no debate. There was nothing to discuss. Because this is, in fact, all of the budget consumers gave up how much they spent last year, and it was subdued in this material and gave to the Commission. So, without any analysis or opportunity to achieve true insight into the way these funds are spent. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7598	I thank the esteemed representative, Mr. Ramiz Vilić. Who else is answering for a word? Rijeka has the Honorable representative Mr. Senad Šarganović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7599	I respect my colleague, but I really haven't read anywhere in dinars. Maybe there's another report. Dinara doesn't have us.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7600	I thank the honourable representative Mr. Šarganović. Who else is answering for a word? I'm about to close the squabble if no one's got one. The Commission suggested that we accept the report. Does the representative of the commission want to explain? Are you suggesting that he be accepted? The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7601	I don't want to open the debate, of course, but I think my colleague Vilić delivered his opinion quite fully. On the one hand, the Commission found that the report on the execution of the Budget came late and also made me aware that the report did not analyse the report. Since the report came too late, this delay is such a nature that it is completely illogical that 18 of the review committee's report did not go with it. Obviously, the Commission did not have the first of us to ask us to adopt the report, but to accept it as information until the Commission's review report arrives and determined according to the report as such.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7602	I would like to thank Mr. Neimarlija's esteemed representative. Rijeka has a distinguished representative, Ms. Emina Zaćiragić. There, there's the minister now, so he can answer the questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7603	I welcome everyone present. The Commission has done the usual methods of doing so. The report has all the data, according to which it can be analyzed. It has a table view, it has a view in the opening part so that every MP can see everything that's been analyzed in the report. The Commission had no need to convince the report. I don't think that a review of BiH institutions should be mixed here with this report. I, as chairman of the Budget and Finance Commission, asked for answers to review that those analyses that had been completed by the Commission and Parliament, so that they could begin with this audit work. I have notices that some audits have been completed. They're waiting to complete it and deliver it. It is a completely special procedure and a special method, and I think that MPs can shorten the procedure to review that report. If they have not deepened in the report, the report, indeed, has all the elements on which it can be estimated that the budget was carried out for the past year and three months this year. I don't think you can tie that to the review office's report, because it has a completely different function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7604	I would like to thank Mrs. Emina Zaćiragić's esteemed representative. Is anyone else picking up? Does the Treasury Minister Mr. Domazet want a word? Are you suggesting anything? Okay, if no one is answering, since the Council of Ministers sent this report that the Commission has recommended that the report be adopted. I'll consider it a vote and, if I consider that the issue of the revision and the question of this report is that things are completely separate and that, when we get the review report, it doesn't mean that we can't analyse and call anyone to account. So if you don't have any other suggestions, here's a word for Mr.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7605	You can't hear exposure.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7606	Here, the word has a Minister Domazet.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7607	I must point out that this year's report has been significantly delayed due to the entire procedure we had both in the past year and the rebalancing, and I need to point out that I need to especially point out the transition to a new system of information based on the vault project and the introduction of the main book based on information, or computer technologies. 19 We had two very significant activities in the past year. One was the introduction of a new system in which the implemented project was set up jointly with the YUS Treasury Ministry of the US, which implemented a significant project with major financial investments, which allows us to have a complete system for more than one year, a system of information regarding public spending. You'll see that for this year we have, so to speak, online information about budget spending. In the last year, we had the old accounting system based on manual processing, based on the absence of coordination between different users, the users of the budget. In the situation of expansion of these BiH institutions, the problem was extremely complicated because the lack of orderly bookkeeping in each institution endangers the problem of building a consolidated balance, and these were the problems that affected the most that there was punishment, there was a delay in such a single budget. The Presidency is presented with this problem and the Council of Ministers and what we present, it can indeed be in all aspects of the subject of criticism, subject and political assessment, but I say, what I can say is that this will never happen again, because it is a new system that is already working and providing us, I say, online in real time information. You are witnesses that the system from the foundation has changed that new internal audits have been introduced to achieve significantly greater coordination with the Audit Office and, indeed, progress is extremely large in this respect. I ask, simply Parliament for understanding of this situation, and the final effect, the final finding will be the finding of an audit, which, which is already auditing some of the beneficiaries of budgetary resources and audits, will record great results in terms of improvement of quality. When we compare the first revision to what we have now, it's obvious that all users have a major progress rate. So, the report on the execution for 2001, I think that, in dispersing it at this time, it's really deplaced. But I'm asking for understanding and that's what's never gonna happen again. As for the report for the first three months, it is simply now in Parliament and the report can be prepared within the next ten days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7608	I thank the Minister, Mr. Domazet. The word has a respected representative, Mr Mirko Mijatović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7609	I appreciate what the minister said, but as an MP, I am interested in, however, one very practical question. You did not answer Mr. Neimallia's introduction of a new technique, monitoring, etc. It all stands, but yet it's the people of those programs full of and empty budgets. But if something wasn't happening in that very sense, the most obvious example, I don't know why we as MPs here don't have much potential. We often have a situation that because the most common journals cannot be paid, the Constitutional Commission and many committees of Parliament cannot be held, and on the other hand we see, even on television how ministers, ministerial assistants, different committees of the Council of Ministers or of the House of Peoples, here I will mention Mr Sejfudin Tokić, I think he is constantly on the road. I don't think he pays out of his pocket. Therefore, this may be a bizarre thing at first sight, but Mr. Minister, and besides, which you now have a better tracking system, I don't know why we're voting for at this point, except to take it to the knowledge, because, in fact, without checking it out, the only auditor we can do and who we've shown a lot of trust, at the time of the 20th reporting last year, I don't know what else a quarterly report would serve, because, in fact, we don't know if the spending of those funds is exactly what the budget of BiH, which we adopted here. When you empty all the items and you file a final report with an auditor's check, at that point I could trust you with something, and in advance, for the simple reason, that the Constitutional Commission was not held the other day, because it wasn't, we didn't even ask for parliamentary supplements, here's what we're irregularly receiving, here's the moment I went to check, they said they went for the money. So where's the money? Where you keep them, I really don't know. Do you need to take so much, travel so much, too, I don't know, but whether today will arrive, too, I don't know, but let's just get out of here somehow, but most of us, however, don't have that kind of money to afford ourselves three months of coming to committees that are the condition of Parliament's work, without being paid even if we have travel expenses, because we have to do it to come to the commissions.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7610	I would like to thank Mr. Mirko Mijatović, the esteemed representative. Mr. Domazet has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7611	I think we're all changing. Because what is now presented to you, it was once the only report, which you and some other previous congregations, or parliaments adopted. The fact that we have improved the control system and introduced and audited, developed a revision, we should probably accept that as just higher quality. This is some preliminary information. I want to point out, on this issue, that we have clear evidence that we have ensured the budgetary discipline of all budget users and that is what is for public revenues, perhaps the most important thing. I was here self-critical in the sense that our information system did not ensure speed, transparency and efficiency at first time. Otherwise, we were running the control system. We didn't let the hardest time get through. That hardest time was out there somewhere in October, November, December of last year, and as you can see, we don't have a break in the budget. We don't have a budget breach in the last three months. And I think that these are the most important indicators that can serve that a calm conscience can be accepted, accept the report. And for a deeper analysis, we always have time and space through issues and through certain analytical materials that we will do on the basis of the Council of Ministers' initiative and on the basis of your initiative. Now, in that sense, I wanted to give an additional explanation with one undivided impression that we are making great progress in the control of public incomes in ensuring financial discipline and that this year we will have extraordinary progress with regard to the efficiency of the information system that we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7612	I thank Minister Domzet. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Boro Bjelobrk, and let the distinguished representative, Mr. Kovačević, be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7613	Here are a few new initiatives, because I assume that every report serves to sum up some acquired experiences, and probably in that sense, each of us is in a position to come, conditionally 21 to the new mind, and above all I plead that money is being spent more rationally. I must admit that to this day we of the Council of Ministers, especially from your vault, have no answer... The Commission for Finance and Budgets, in particular the audit report. We have asked, you have already missed two deadlines for written information to this Parliament on the state of the individual funds. So I first ask that today we conclude that, with the next existing conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Ministers and your ministry, it responds to the tasks already put in place. Secondly, I want to believe in your indisputables to say that Bosnia and Herzegovina and its budgetary policy are improving its international position, and in that sense, I think it is high time for us to engage in an operation by the end of the year that would again prove Bosnia and Herzegovina's real improvement to international financial institutions. One occasion I mentioned to everyone in a personal conversation my event with Hermans Bank in Germany, where we are now in the seventh risk category. I think that with the relatively small efforts of the Council of Ministers, even the financial nature and including possible arrangements with at least a few significant Bosnian Herzegovina firms, we can access one action where we can prove that we still have a much more favourable degree of credit with international financial institutions. This will lead to a faster inflow of funds in Bosnia and Herzegovina and a much more productive business and financial conversation. Third, I would ask you to now access the realisation of the requirements that we have sent before this parliamentary assembly, and resulting from the objectives of introducing a review in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is with financial data that you provide us with measurement factors. Let me remind you by the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly, the third of the four key categories dealing with this House of Representatives is monitoring. We still lack data in your reports, so we're spending money, but compared to the announced plan goals that we've done for that money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7614	I would like to thank the esteemed representative, Mr. Bjelobrk. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Kovačević.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7615	Dearly present to today's session, I really don't know what we're discussing here today. The first year has passed long ago and forgotten. It's a report as a final account in the company, it's a final account. We can't change numbers. If someone has made a mistake, or we can ask for it to be taken out as much travel costs or travel or some analysis if we are interested. But that's, we can make a request now, but we can't do this report so globally right now, or so much detail about it, so now we can say every item to explain, to create an elaborate. Then we'd just be dealing with the team. The Commission didn't even have that in front of it. So, I suggest that we don't really waste our time, that we, this report we're verifying is promoted, I don't think I'm talking about it, but surely since there's been this ministry of the vault that business has been financially improved, that certain remarks that have been put in place before, that there's been order, that this is good luck 22 that we have achieved income. It's not just that we're looking at the cost-effective side of whether we've spent a trip, whether or not the revenues have been made. So this is where incomes and expenditures are realized and that the budget is kept under control, that it is disciplinedly executed... Let's do the mission in six months, and we want the report to be done and audited, but the review is a special point of whether or not we're going to adopt it. Although we suspect some items that are now in position, let's say that we are delivered in 6 months with this budget report to deliver a special cost report that someone here mentioned. Is that... or are they travellers? I've known hundreds of years of management that whoever came out to discuss what to discuss at the sessions, before the workers' choirs were just hitting on the team, the travel expenses and the journals, that they were the main discussions. So whether we're going back to those times or we're going to provide some positions and items to see that we look at it, but really we're going to do this in three months what's been achieved in incomes and expenditures and what's especially been there last year, when the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or our Rules of Procedure, that we're considering it, and we could, these data, because we really can't change those figures, and we can't analytically enter whether the bookkeeping has written it well or not. And this is progress with the vault and the audit, and we are expected to know for sure that and as far as international institutions and all that is concerned, that there is a real shift in both this progress in the system and the vaults and the vault business and that everything is concentrated here in one place to see that neither the ministry is in charge and order goods, costs etc. That someone really has to answer to the ministers if they show up like that. But there's a vault to stop him before that, and it's a vault function that doesn't give someone a proper cost, because it pays expenses that aren't planned by budget. Therefore, I also, as Vice-President of the Budget Commission, think that this should be adopted and I suggest that you be free of it. If there are any assignments we can set up now and we say I'm asking for six months to be delivered with that report even this, this, this and this. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7616	The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Kulenović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7617	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all. I will say a few words about, regarding this item of the agenda and as a member of the Commission on Finance and Budget and as an MP in this Parliament. So all of this so far that has been said about this point of the agenda stands, but I would say that around this point of the agenda there is a lot to discuss and put under the bat. I wouldn't agree with someone who spoke earlier. We're on the Finance and Budget Committee, and I was just insisting that my discussion go into the record there. I was even counting on the president's conclusion, and about this report that we got on the bench today, and about that, actually, about what I was saying back then. In fact, here's one of these details that fell into my eyes, it's about the implementation of the 2001 budget. Later, I compared it with the data and the execution for these three months, and that's how I think everything is crucial, and especially for me, the crucial question is about coming back. The Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees has been as transparent as all the other ministries have presented us with data here and here it is said for 2001 that liquid grenades for the refugee programme have been implemented for the whole year with 22.27%, 22.27%, and all other items within this ministry have even been breached, and some 23 are approximately 100%. I am pleased to know that this same item for the first three months of 2002 is worth 25% to me. It would be good for Mr. Minister to answer why, so that it doesn't happen again this year in 2002. I think that's one of the most important questions in our entire reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7618	I would like to thank Mr. Kulenović's esteemed representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7619	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I will only ask for one clarification. It is, in fact, revenue from Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget provided by the Communications Regulatory Agency on the basis of revenue from frequency spectrum fees. It's about the next one. The 2001 Budget Report on page 3 said the following: - Based on the contribution to the use of spectrum frequencies, a total of 6,702,674 marks were invoiced, and by the time this report was made, 5,500,110 marks were charged, the outstanding claims were shown below in the amount it says here and the claims charged for this revenue were then made, the revenue in the 2002 budget will be presented. So the amount of 1,697,564 marks should be income in 2002. In 2002, 1,443,500 revenue was shown for the previous three months for the three-month reporting period, which clearly indicates that these funds did not enter the budget. I'm looking for an explanation why this didn't go in and who was responsible for me and this additional amount, so almost two million marks are not in the budget, and somewhere more in some others and why the Regulatory Agency didn't, why in the report for the reporting period of this previous three months it was not entered, but it was said here and even more shown a smaller amount than it should be. I'm looking for an explanation on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7620	I would like to thank Mr. Malkić, the honourable representative. Minister, the word has been made by Minister Mr. Domazet.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7621	Someone here mentioned the company, so I say, you know, in the company production products, marketing realises, and finance shows reports. Therefore, I can give you an explanation, and why it is so necessary to ask the Agency, should ask the Ministry of Civil Affairs, etc., but I hope you will not be denied the answer. As you could see in these revenues for compensation, revenue for using frequency spectrum is the biggest debtor of Eronet. We have a big problem here, you know, most of you from the Federation know that Eronet's status is undefined. He became a private company through some transformations, and it is believed to have been illegal operations that he is essentially a state-owned company. On that basis, he should be entitled to use frequency spectrum without compensation. And we've made some kind of half a solution, because that's when his 24th status needs to be invoiced, but there's been a problem that the CRA Central Regulatory Agency won't give him a license. He defacto uses frequency spectrum. So we use ERONET services through mobile phones, but he doesn't have a license. No license. So it's legally undefined and the only thing that's been charged is that 500 grand. The Federation government should resolve the problem in the context of the privatisation of Telekom Company. Without it, we will not be able to progress in solving this problem. That's why this amount is not charged. As for the first question, as far as the first question regarding the current grant is concerned, the answer is very simple, we didn't have the money to realize these grants. We couldn't support the planned amounts of refugee returns, as much of these funds were based on the revenues from the succession if you remember if it was. We have adopted the budget, and we have not adopted the sources from which the budget will be financed, and that is why such a drastic achievement has been shown. I think you have rightly reacted as regards 2002 there are much more stable sources, and I think there will be an achievement according to the policy drawn up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7622	I thank Minister Domazet. Whether explanations are enough to move on. Is anyone else answering for word? The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Vilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7623	I'm sorry to hear from you the other time, but I have to be objective. I want to believe that progress has been made. But how much progress. On the basis of which today we are discussing and coming to the conclusion that progress has been made. Is that progress when we get a budget report in the seventh month of next year? That's no progress for me. Furthermore, today we must trust the figures that you gave. I'm not ready for that anymore. I'm not ready, first of all, to be this late doesn't follow the review. If we hadn't gotten through the items, it would have been a shame and a shame to break it, when we rebalanced the budget before New Year's Eve and covered everything that had to be covered. These aren't the foundations on which we can say today that we've made progress. So you didn't convince me. Maybe you're second. There will probably be no revision until the term of office of this assembly is over. We probably won't even be in a position to feel the progress we are involved in as a congregation. We gave it there if you remember when we discussed the implementation of the 2000 budget if I have one 18 conclusions. What's to be done by a single ministry, how do they behave, and what happened on a day like this no longer happens? Is now a different state of mind from what we've been given not to see. What you're saying hasn't been broken, I just said why. It'd be a shame if it was broken. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7624	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Vilić. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Šarganović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7625	I believe that we have the opinion of our commission of both the President and the Vice-Presidents and with a proposal to adopt this report, we can conclude one of the Council's obligations to report to us in six months for our next assembly. 25 But, however, I want to visit us alone that we had a High Representative here today. A man asks us to adopt quickly, to bring some things, to do, to bring us, to go to Europe, etc. My Bog, about 2001, we're here to discuss, I don't see any reason. I would like to ask another question – Whether our Council of Ministers and Resolute Ministers is monitoring the state of the money market and how Bosnia and Herzegovina will go down the price of dollars on the money market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7626	I thank the honourable representative Mr. Senad Sarganovic. If no one answers, I suggest we split this report into two parts. To be the first report on the implementation of the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and international obligations for 2001, the second part should be this report for the first three months. We have an obligation to adopt a nine-month and annual report. I suggest we make this our first statement, accept it. You will decide with votes whether you will be accepted or not, and we will receive this second part of the first three months of knowledge. Here it is, that's my suggestion. I propose that we declare this first part, means the report on the implementation of the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and international obligations for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2001. It means we accept it if we vote. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Thank you. Are there any abstentions? There's no 34 that's there, 26 for, 6 against. So we need an entity. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Thank you. From Republika Srpska who's in favour? Thank you. From Federation 16, from Republika Srpska 10. So it's adopted. We don't even have to vote. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda. Ad. 4. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on amendments by representatives of Sead Avdić to the Proposal for a Law on the Red Cross/Red Cross of Bosnia and Herzegovina In the shortest report you have received. No consent has been reached. Is there a need to discuss it? So we have to carry out the voting procedure. So, first of all, we are voting on the amendments of Mr. Avdić's distinguished representative. They have two amendments. 26 Who is Mr. Avdić's first respected representative for the amendment? Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Thank you. The abstentions? 34 who voted 23 for, 10 against, 1 abstention and now we need to implement this part of the second who is against the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Thank you. Who's against Republika Srpska? From the Federation without votes against, from Republika Srpska 10 against, it is not adopted. Second amendment. Who is Mr. Avdić's second amendment? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. The abstentions? There isn't. Of the 34 that are there 24 for, 10 v, 1 abstention. Now let's go to this second part. Who's from Republika Srpska against? Thank you. Who's from the Federation of BiH against? Thank the Federation without votes against, from Republika Srpska 10 against, so it didn't pass. Now we're voting on the law. Who's in favor of the law without amendments? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. The abstentions? Of 35, 11 for, 21 against, 1 abstention. So he didn't pass. Let's move on. Here's a comment from the esteemed representative Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7627	I really apologize for wanting to say two words after the vote, and that's what we've been trying to do, and we've been trying hard to agree and reach a political consensus about this law that's not strategical. It's an NGO organization of people, a Red Cross society. The more we tried to get a coherent attitude of the Republika Srpska and the Federation, the two entities' red crosses with the Red Cross of Bosnia and Herzegovina to simply support what was written in the amendments. And that wasn't enough for this vote of law either, and in that context, I really don't have any more words about this. The amendments have been brought into line, with amendments both entity and Republika Srpska and the Federation.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7628	The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7629	All is well what Mr Avdić said, this is all he has to say to the Alijansa, not to Parliament. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7630	I would like to thank Mr. Brk's esteemed representative. We're moving to point five, Ad. 5. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement in the proposal for a law on concessions between Bosnia and Herzegovina has not reached agreement at the shortest. We need to complete this procedure. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Mirjanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7631	Gentlemen, the proposal for a law on concessions for Bosnia and Herzegovina is back in front of us. There is no doubt that this law should be passed for the sake of economic reform and economic recovery, both Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republika Srpska and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. What I'm trying to say is that I'm sorry that the College of the House of Representatives disagreed. I tried to reach agreement by proposing some solutions, and among other things, those solutions went towards that text adopted by the House of Peoples. So my attempt was to get today a text that is identical to the text adopted by the House of Peoples and that it simply today Bosnia and Herzegovina gets the concession law. There is another time, and that is that we today pass a law on concessions that differs from that text adopted by the House of Peoples and set up a joint commission. This second time is obviously ahead of us, but it's harder. The key reason for the first time is to adopt today the text identical to the text adopted by the House of Nations is in the next. In BiH institutions and between entity institutions, an entity-specific agreement has been reached on the text adopted in the House of Peoples. If we pass a concession law today, then again through the Joint Commission, we must come up with a text adopted by the House of Peoples. That's how Bosnia and Herzegovina gets the concession law. I'm sorry that here at the end of the term we come to some troubles of time, but here, we may not get today, we won't be able to get the final text of the law it's obvious, but I expect Bosnia and Herzegovina to get the text of the concession laws soon. A club whose member I'm trying to get to that law- Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7632	I would like to thank Mr Mirjanić, the esteemed representative. Anyone else want one? Do the representatives of the Council of Ministers want, since there are solutions. Do you have any need to comment? There isn't. Here's a word from Minister Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7633	First, I will take the opportunity to mention that this law, i.e. the reason for the adoption of this law, is contained in the need to draw up, as soon as possible, harmonised legislation on the award of concessions to legal persons in the private sector in the areas of infrastructure, public service activities and the use of natural resources. Among other things, this law at the state level is part of a single package to conditionally state the regulation of 28 concessions, so both at the state and entity level, which means it was done together with two entity concession laws. Aware of the importance, and I assume that we are all aware of the importance of adopting this legal solution, the Council of Ministers has long established this proposal and has long been in parliamentary procedure. Certain amendments have also been adopted in the House of Peoples, in accordance with agreed amendments, given that coordination between representatives of the entity authorities of the state ministry has identified certain needs for certain amendments, but has also identified some amendments to some MPs, in particular some amendments relating to the change in the head office of the organisation. I think there was also a little lack of understanding at the time, in view of the fact that entity directors would be in, specifically in Republika Srpska in Banja Luka, the headquarters of the entity concessions directorate, or commission. And the state law envisioned the head office of the state concession commission in Sarajevo. There have also been some changes, i.e. respect for the amendments made by some MPs, and no consensus has been reached in this attempt to agree as we have been informed today. I'll just visit you to really be dealing with one of the very important laws for the whole package to say economic reforms in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially those key areas related to esfrastructure and all that is within the jurisdiction of the Bosnia and Herzegovina regulatory state. I also appeal to this house as well as to another home to find a form for the text of the law to be published as soon as possible. I will only visit you that today, among other things, the High Representative in a set of economic packages, to say, that is, the economic reform law, the assumption of economic reform, also mentioned the concession law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7634	I thank the minister, Mrs Hadžiahmetović. I suggest we make a statement about this concession law. So let's finish this vote. Who's in? So the law without any amendments, and then about that, with the commission's report, means that no agreement has been reached. It's about the law. The amendments, nothing adopted. So it's a law proposed by the Council of Ministers. No, no, without what was adopted in the House of Peoples. Thank you. Do you mind? Nerma. The abstentions? Of the 34 who voted 34 in favour, so the law was passed. But here's because it's in a different text, it's going to be necessary to have a committee of conformity. We can immediately form, reach a conclusion and form a three-member commission. Any suggestions?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7635	I got it in front of Željko Bilbi. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7636	So we've got two suggestions, Mr. Omer Filipović, Željko Bilbija, and give us one more. Here's Mr. Marko Amidžić's guest proposal. So you agree that we conclude that a committee is being established to comply with the laws on concessions between Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's to conclude that we're forming a commission in this system? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. Thank you. So we've formed a commission that needs to agree to this text of the law. We have adopted the text proposed by the Council of Ministers. Thank you. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda. It's Ad. Six. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the amendment of Representative Sead Avdić to the Law on the holidays of Bosnia and Herzegovina has not been reached by the shortest agreement. Is anyone picking up? If he's not answering, then we need an amendment. An amendment to make him known and then to make a statement about the law. Who's for the amendment and the honourable representative of Mr. Avdić? Thank you. Do you mind? Thank you. Are there any abstentions? Of the 33 who voted 22 for, 8 against, 1 abstention. Who's from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina against? There isn't. Who's from Republika Srpska against? So from the Federation without votes against, from Republika Srpska 10 against. So we haven't adopted the amendment. We're voting on the law. Who's in favour of the Bosnia and Herzegovina holiday bill? Thank you. Do you mind? Thank you. The abstentions? 35 who voted, 6 for, 22 against, no abstentions. So he didn't go through no need to move on. We're going to the seventh point. It's Ad. Seven. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the past establishment and functioning of cultural centres between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey has largely not reached agreement. Does anyone want a word? Is it the Council of Ministers? No, it is a Protocol on the establishment and functioning of cultural centres between the BiH Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Turkey. 30 I suggest we make a statement. Who's in? For this agreement, but now we have to finish this. We have to finish the procedure now. This is the second round. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. The abstentions? Thank you. We don't have to. Of the 34 who voted 22 for, 10 against, two abstentions. Let's go to the other part. Who's from Republika Srpska against? Who's from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina against? From Republika Srpska 10 against, from the Federation without votes against. So he didn't win. We're moving to the eighth item of the agenda. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7637	When at the last, the previous session of our home was this point, my colleague Jovanović, as I recall, said that, meanwhile, since her first appointment on this house, nothing has changed in the formal character of this relationship between Turkey and Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm from those materials that I had an impression of, and I thought it had changed, but no one was from the Council of Ministers. I would ask this a third time that we all plead unfavourably about a harmless, completely normal civilised one so I can say to an agreement that regulates relations between the two states and I believe that we all feel a little uncomfortable because for the first time we didn't accept one of these agreements in the first place on the agenda. I would really ask, I don't think we accepted it last time because no one from the Council of Ministers explained what it was about. Here is no one today, and I would really call if the proposal for an agreement was to be sent back to our home, he would appeal to the Council of Ministers to prepare the relevant information and to ensure the reasons valid to avoid such an agreement in this way no longer set up. Indeed, because I believe this is bordering on something that is not appropriate for the conduct of MPs in such a home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7638	I thank the honourable representative of Mr. Hilima Neimarlija. I note that the House of Nations has approved this agreement, and now, let the Council of Ministers prepare a report and I think it can be put back on the agenda in the next period. 31 We move to the eighth point of the agenda. It's Ad. 8. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Law on the Foundations of the Public TV System and the Public TV Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure (Article 105) As you know, this law has been declared by the High Representative. The Council of Ministers delivered a bill requiring the House to adopt it under Article 105. We must first declare the requirement to be considered in accordance with Article 105. So I'm opening a debate. I am closing the debate and I suggest we make it clear that this law is being discussed in accordance with Article 105. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Thank you. The abstentions? Of the 34 that are there 23 for, 10 against, one abstention. So we have to be subjective. Who's from Republika Srpska for? Thank you. Who's from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Thank you. Of which means the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina 21 for, Republika Srpska 3 for. There should be a formal agreement, although we can immediately say that if we agree. So we didn't agree. He's going into a regular procedure. So we've got to go through the whole procedure, so we've got to get back to the law set. Who's asking to be discussed under Article 105? This is a procedure after we disagreed. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Boro Bjelobrk.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7639	Dear Chairman, I have the right to full information as to why, the reasons why you disagreed and I want you to inform the public.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7640	All right, then. We don't have to take a break now, but if it does, we will.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7641	Please use my business rights. [[speaks from the site no microphone]] You have no right to say internally make some decisions without explaining this home. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7642	Mostly we'll do a written report, and then we won't continue this procedure now. We're going to the next point, right on the agenda. The procedure remains to agree, since we haven't made a written report that we didn't agree, and we didn't agree, we delay this procedure until we did, and until everyone gets a written explanation. Under 9. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Mašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7643	First of all, I'm talking to the public who's here. This is a shame, and everyone should be fine enough to announce who it is so that we can take the map route, who it isn't. Those who aren't obviously won't give us a nice one reason why they're not. We all got this material here from the BiH presidency, from the Secretariat. Subject updated state of fulfillment of the guideline Map times etc. etc. He says here – the European Commission's view is that meeting all 18 guidelines from the Map of Roads to Bosnia and Herzegovina is a condition for organising 11. Plenary session of the consulting body of the CTF in July, etc. I really can't believe we're absolutely nothing for any progress for Europe. This is a disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7644	I thank the honourable representative of the gentleman. The replica was presented by the esteemed representative Mr Mirko Mijatović. Nothing, you don't have to have a lot of discussion about it right now. You'll get a written report and then we'll, and there'll be more sessions, there's no rush.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7645	And here, if the public needs it, since the distinguished young gentleman called, I will, for example, call it. Answer immediately. I'm sorry I meant to take the opportunity, since Mr. Eždaun mentioned this law and asked to adopt it, I had prepared a personal question for Mr. Eždaun, but unfortunately, I didn't expect to ask that question, because others before me had taken advantage of that right. So, here's young gentlemen to you and the general public for reasons why I, and I hope most of us didn't vote to adopt this law as an emergency procedure. I have said before that we often hit our chests as we are for Europe and that we are for EU directives. However, it turns out that no EU guidelines and directives are included in the proposal for this law. 33 Explanation. So, in order to avoid confusion, I personally support the adoption of a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Radio Television Service. I agree that he is not an option, but a need as Mr. Eždaun said. EU guidelines exist for two years. However, let's see what the EU guidelines say. The solutions given in the said law are contrary to the directive, and it is 89/552 called border-free television. Namely, the law on the basis of the Public Radio Television System on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Radio Television Service has provided the media with privileged monopoly status. He is the only one who has the right to signal the entire area of Bosnia and Herzegovina, resulting in exclusive rights which reduces the rights and undermines the interests of commercial television, in addition to others. And commercial televisions everywhere in Europe have not taken those rights away. If you bring that up, I'm ready to lift the green card right now. Furthermore, the rights and entity public services that exist in Bosnia and Herzegovina have also been compromised. On the contrary, the said Directive implies that state-owned cell emissions, if they comply with the law applicable in that country, can be received and freely transferred throughout the EU. Furthermore, the Law on the Foundations of the Public Radio System and the Public Radio Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as proposed, does not respect Parliament's document on the Council of Europe, because it says the role and way of leading national radio television recommendations 748 of 1975, where among other things it states that the state is only the commissioner responsible for exercising public interest that this interest itself must be interpreted and left to debate the entire public, and not some special groups, however well-intentioned. And we gentlemen have a situation already.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7646	Please, three minutes is a replica, according to He's completely disrespected. I'd be praying, I mean since the subject here is pretty serious and since it's,
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7649	I call as an MP to be against something I wouldn't otherwise be against, then there's got to be an explanation. Unsuitable legal practice in any part of the world is the establishment of the obligation of commercial legal entities to co-operate, i.e. to coordinate programme production and broadcasting schemes jointly use professional whenever and all news production equipment, the programme code for the entire system of editorial policy, etc. is required. So gentlemen, this bill of law is not in line with those standards that you stand for, but only formally. They should be essentially embedded in this bill and then there is no problem with the law being voted in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7650	Thank you. Is it a replica? If anyone has a replica, they can, otherwise we'll end this debate. There'll be time. The Republic has a distinguished representative, Mr. Stanimirović, and then a respected representative, Mr. brkati, is the same replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7651	I'd appreciate what my predecessors are, especially the last one I'd like to ask him a question about how he sees a solution to the situation. I see that the solution is one --...the law imposed by the High Representative and the only way we can discuss changes, possibly quality improvement of that law is to adopt an existing version of the law. However, I would also like to point out that a similar argument has been used during all the other laws which have been subject to obstructions and blockades in this assembly for years, approximately the same MPs and the same political parties, so that after the adoption, or the first imposition of that law, then adoption of this parliamentary assembly. I still don't remember any of these cases being initiated by an initiative to amend and supplement the laws in question. So stop deluding the public here, it's high time that instead of policy obstructions and blockades, you move on with the responsibility of doing political work. If this law is not in the process today, unless Bosnia and Herzegovina is adopted, it is the hostage of your missed policy, which is based on the fact that we are making access to a feasibility study to develop a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, i.e. bringing Bosnia and Herzegovina closer to the EU. And finally, I want to say that all those who are going to be in the upcoming election campaign are wrong to prove to the people what they didn't do to make it a success. He needs to prove what he did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7652	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Stanimirović. The Republic has an esteemed representative, Mr. Brka, and then a respected representative, Mr. Banjac, is guilty of allegation, of business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7653	It's not really this, I want to make a suggestion. No, no, I really want to make a suggestion. I want to ask the Council of Ministers, the signator of this bill is Mr. Mikerević, he's a signer, so the president of the Council of Ministers who formed the Alliance. I pray indeed, it is not funny, I ask the Council of Ministers not to come to Parliament and that members of the Alliance vote against the proposal he proposes. Please, gentlemen, if you can't agree, resign. Well, you can't fool this people all the time. You resign, it doesn't work for you. It doesn't work. The opposition vote, I 35 know this isn't ideal, Mr. Mirko, I know this isn't ideal, but this is the starting point that we have to go with. Why don't we adopt that? We have to start something, because we can fix it. It's better to have, there's no state in the world of Mirko who doesn't have his own means of information. It's just Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why do we need to be a constant black hole in everything? We have to start with something. Let's go from the audio. Or if the Council of Ministers can't get along, so here we are being harassed and harassed by the public, resign, brother.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7654	I would like to thank Mr. Brk's esteemed representative. The word has a distinguished representative, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7655	Replica to Mr. Stanimirović and this gentleman. I have a solution. In the regular procedure, let the discriminatory provisions I said be cast out. Here's a regular procedure. We'll get him in line and adopt him tomorrow. I suggest. What, if he does not go into emergency procedures, means regular procedures that can be completed in a very short time.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7656	But mostly I think the High Representative will take care of it, we don't have to go any further. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7657	Dear gentlemen, I didn't answer to rephrase anyone, because it doesn't come to me by heart, it has no basis, it has no business opportunities for such a thing, but there are the most unreal lies here and it calls for morality for a claim that is absolutely untrue. Our Rules of Procedure and any other legal act do not know the procedure that you want to impose here as a practice for Parliament. Why are you gentlemen doing this? Because you think you're putting order into Bosnia and Herzegovina that way. Who says and where does it say the High Representative can pass laws? If he can, then why are we even bringing them? Let's make it work. There's no problem. Is it true that the article 105 is being abused which says – if the law is a high degree of urgency it is not, if it works then it is not a high degree of urgency. If it's a small degree of complexity, it's not true. So it's neither, nor is it the other, and why are you gentlemen of the Council of Ministers in the procedure of Article 105, and you abuse the Rules of Procedure of this House. According to what I know and according to what is true, the High Representative has and should make decisions with the legal force until this House adopts something that disrupts the (civil) implementation of the peace agreement. And I welcome that. I truly welcome it, but it's not this situation. That's not what's permanently imposed here on this home. Why are you doing this? What are you doing with what purpose? Do you think it will bring and make Bosnia and Herzegovina happy? 36 Second question. What right does a young person or an old man have to hold moral sermons here without knowing the most important Rules of Procedure and his procedure that he has prescribed and brought this home to her? Why are you doing this, gentlemen? I want to tell you, gentlemen, truly, all of you are aware that you are misusing article 105 and that so far you have abused it all and one and only time you have passed by article 105 of the law, because you well know that it does not say that it has to be adopted without any objection that it could be intervened later. Where does that say? Come out and tell me here, Mr. Banjac, you're lying. You're cheating on the public. I don't need gentlemen to promote myself or to collect any pre-election points, pre-election points, or anything else. I want to warn you of the most elementary, the most notorious, the most decent, or whatever respect you want for this home and his documents. It is simply here to introduce unconstitution as a practice and disregard for the rules as a practice. And all I want and I act in that direction is that it doesn't happen. And I'm making the most serious observation both to the Council of Ministers and to the Kolegijum of the dom who would have to know and know the procedure and had to and should have acted in accordance with the procedure. My dear friends, our esteemed colleagues, we are promised that we should meet this or that and we will be without a visa. We still have visas. We are also told that we are to enter the Council of Europe and some laws to adopt, and it is well known that we are neither a democratic country nor a sovereign country, if this is what we are doing and this is how the laws are passed. Why are you doing this to us? Why don't you let us work as people who came here to make their contribution to improve the text of the law. I also claim and want to pass the law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's radio television service, and I think Bosnia and Herzegovina needs it, and I think BH Press should, but you don't think gentlemen are doing this in a procedure where we're going to have to speak to each other with arguments and face arguments to make a better law. That bothers someone, why? If you gentlemen don't want this Parliament to go on vacation, here I invite you not to go on vacation, and these laws you want to speed up like this, peopleally speaking, to bring into an honorable, democratic, cultural and toral atmosphere, to negotiate. Today, one of the MPs said that we passed the law, agreed to it 100%, and it couldn't have been that way. What's that? Someone wants to invite me to democracy, and the most elementary parliamentary rights are at stake. Why are they threatening me? What right do they threaten me with? What have I done that I should be punished, that I have no right to speak, that I have no right to make remarks, that I have no right to study the law and to make my contribution so that he can be better? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7658	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Banjac. Moving to the next point, that's the ninth point of Ad. Nine. Council of Ministers' request to consider the Proposal for a Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina on an urgent procedure (Article 105) It is also a previous point on the law declared by the High Representative. So I'm opening a debate on the demand for this law to be discussed, the bill is being discussed in accordance with Article 105. 37 The word has a distinguished representative, Ms. Emina Začiragić. There's a procedure for that consent, there's nothing. Dear Members, in this current address, I will partially respond to Mr Banjac's discussion. It's about the same situation, the same text, I mean the same invitation to Article 105. We have heard a speech like this today, one address by Mr Banjac dynamically and calls for the rights of this parliament to regulate issues concerning Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are all agreed that this parliament, according to the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, is primarily tasked with passing laws that will shape the legal order and legal situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But why does the High Representative pass laws? There's the answer to Mr. Banjac's discussion. First, Bosnia and Herzegovina has transferred part of sovereignty to the international community as we wish to say, and that is the High Representative. He has a share of sovereignty and this home and has the right to pass laws that this house will not or cannot bring. In this home we have witnessed for two years there are obstructions to make certain regulations. In that situation, the High Representative shall, with his sovereignty transferred to him in his jurisdiction, lay down regulations. We now have the situation of these two laws. Please, gentlemen, you cannot change the law of the High Representative. You can't act as an amendment. You can propose a new law and pass such a law, but the law of the High Representative cannot be changed. In that sense there were also discussions of colleagues, Mijatović. This law may contain some groundlessness in European standards, but we can only change it once we adopt it as our own text, right. Now our question is whether or not we're going to pass those laws. Whenever we don't, the High Representative will adopt us, and we can pretend here that we're some tall body, that we have great sovereignty, that we stand for some Bosnian decent and legal framework. We don't have sovereignty, we know that. There's been a transfer of one piece to the High Representative. He offers us to restore that sovereignty, to adopt these laws, to adapt them to European standards, to change them. We won't do that either. So, it can only be concluded that here someone will not make Bosnia legal as a state according to European standards. This is the situation we have for this next agenda, and I expect the same reaction, and I don't think the debaters were right. The High Representative has his powers, has part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's sovereignty, can lay down regulations. We can't change his regulations. We can make our own regulations or his regulations and then change them afterwards. Calling the Rules of Procedure in this situation where the High Representative has authority is illusory. We can't apply our rules of procedure to his fields. I propose that we accept this law first to discuss it in a shortened procedure and adopt it, not to embarrass ourselves in the end and to those international institutions that we have writtenly promised and accepted that we will accept all these European standards. Voters are often called upon to Europe, to some European standards. When we get here we see red and green charts and we know who is constantly obstructing the adoption of regulations concerning Bosnia and Herzegovina. Look straight into your eyes and you'll see. And it's not the High Representative's fault that we can't make the rules, so he brings it. It's not his fault. Thank you very much. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7661	I, gentlemen, have no desire to comment on what has been said. In the end it was all heard and everyone’s knowledge and knowledge of what he was doing. Where it just says what the lady asked. I ask the Kolegijum to present this to both the public and this home where these are transferred sovereignty of this home and this country to the High Representative institution. Yeah, I know that. To what extent, is it 10% or is it 30, or is it all? Yeah, I know what it is, I know how to act. If this is true, if not true, please be informed as a home that it is a misinformation or that it is true. So I'm looking for information as an MP to know how I'm going to behave. Please, if I had a club of MPs right now, I'd ask for a break, but I don't, and I'd ask to be answered if that's true, if we really let it be done. Whoever wants to do this doesn't have to. But the fact is that someone here is calling on the Rules of Procedure to be a useless act standing here and ultimately you want to change it and not respect it. So whatever you change, it is not in force. I don't see any reason why you, like today, have come to the Expansive College today to come up with some proposal on the composition of a committee to sort of agree with the Rules of Procedure that you claim isn't in force. So what do you want to do here, gentlemen? You're talking about the sovereign state and you're talking about the state. I am therefore asking as an MP for an answer is it true that part of the sovereignty of this home and sovereignty of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been transferred to the Office of the High Representative? To what extent and what is the percentage part or how is it interpreted? I want to know so I can behave.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7662	I would like to thank Mr. Mirko Banjac, the esteemed representative. The word has a respected representative, Mr Jovanović. So the debate is about a member, a request for a member of 105, of acceptance to be discussed under Article 105.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7663	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say first that I am not personally, nor the Councilman's Club to whom I belong, that I do not obstruct anyone. So the MPs' club I belong to, it means there's no obstruction. The third time I'm going to do it again today, the third time I'm going to repeat it means this law was supposed to go into regular procedure. I'm just saying, I'm sorry, we've crossed a little bit, let me say, this law on high court and prosecution advice, but here's an example, I'm talking about the previous law. About the composition of the board of directors. Is there anywhere I'd like someone to tell me if there's anywhere for three board members to choose the old board of directors, and here's a member of the 59th four members of the primary assembly to be elected by the Parliamentary Assembly and three members to be appointed by the previous board of directors. 39 The second thing, the board of directors said, decides most of the votes of the total number of members. Does that mean, it doesn't matter now, does that mean that on the primary board there can be five members from one nation and that means with most votes they can make decisions all they want and what they agree on? So that's one of the reasons why this law should go into regular procedure so that an amendment can be given and probably first. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7664	I would like to thank Mr. Jovanović's esteemed confidant. Is anyone else picking up? If it does not report, I suggest we make a point of requesting that this law be discussed in accordance with Article 105. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Of the 34 who voted 22 in favour – 8 against – without the abstentions. So we also need an entity. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Thank you. Who's from RS for? So Federation 20 for – RS 4 for. So he didn't get the necessary majority, and he needs a match. Ad.10. The request of the Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of BiH with an emergency tariff, Article 105. As mentioned in the introduction, you received a request from the Council of Ministers as well as a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Customs Tariff Act, with a customs trif. Yesterday, the Council of Ministers also sent a letter to the Council of Ministers concerning this law, which also proposed certain amendments to the bill, which also require adoption under Article 105. I think that's two suggestions. So, for which the same procedure must be carried out. Right? So, we are discussing the requirement for this amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act to be discussed under Article 105. So that's the opening part. Who's calling? Mr. Bilbija's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7665	Dear gentlemen, we know that this was in the procedure and that we, as the House of Representatives, adopted the text proposed by the Council of Ministers. We know that there have been a lot of amendments in order to pass and the urgency of the law, clubs of certain amendments have given up. We got in the process last week of this proposal. However, we received some amendments this morning. I really can't vote for a proposal like this and I didn't even bring the material to at least look at what the amendments are and what they're about. I would not want BiH to suffer because of certain problems or the adoption of tariffs. It is my suggestion that today, I voted so when we adopted the agenda, it would be good for the Council of Ministers to withdraw this item of the agenda so that at the next session, however, we could prepare ourselves a little so that we couldn't take a look at it by heart. But at this point, I can't support Article 105 like this. If, the perimeter is also 104, because maybe he can go by Article 105, but what I haven't seen, I can't say right now. Thank you. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7666	I'd like to thank Mr. Bilbija, the esteemed agent. Do any of the other respected MPs. Rijeka has a minister, Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović. But as far as the 104th or 105th decision is concerned, that is the proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7667	I... honored Presidency, distinguished ladies and gentlemen,... a point of address to you to point out and perhaps a part answer to requests, suggestions and discussions, etc. Members who have discussed in the previous, when adopting the agenda on the tariff itself. I have here a tariff, or perhaps one two pages of the Law on Change and Tariff Supplements and everything else on tariffs and open this package for various reasons in the parlamentary procedure, it is very difficult sometimes to prove to someone who understands a little more about tariff and all that... tariff and such as it is would lead us to position as already, once a tariff and this law on amendments and additions to the Law had a destiny in the procedural procedure. Sometimes because of a lack of understanding and sometimes even at first sight justified demands of individual groups, economic groups within BiH or regions, etc. They pass on some amendments that cannot comply with the standard international norms and standards to which we are required. Today a new draft law amending and supplementing the Customs Tariff Act, including this tariff and as you have seen, in the proposal of the Council of Ministers, has referred to the alignment of BiH, i.e. the nomenclature of the Bosnian Herzegovina nomenclature of goods and services with the combined nomenclature of the European Union, and has maintained existing import burdens except for ten types of goods. So, you have an almost identical tariff in front of you as it is already valid with small corrections in ten types of goods, and this has been removed from the technical errors of the previous tariff and the other five have been initially gross technical failures. For example. the component of livestock food and crude oil. I would like to mention only removed technical errors from the existing tariff that led to interpretation or non-regulatory to numerous customs fraud, interpretation, machination, organised crime in the field of customs business and... Aware of the fact that a similar bill with the same import burdens and the old nomenclature was not in line with the same text in the faces of the BiH Parliament's home. I want to remind you of certain facts which, which I mentioned a little while ago, is that today is the applicable tariff law, which was expected to apply in '98. The year contains an average customs duty on imports into BiH of 5.8%. Given the very low customs protection, the Council of Ministers was in early '99. in accordance with the provisions of the law on foreign trade policy introduced safeguards, i.e. special taxes on imports or advances. This was the only possibility of introducing additional import burdens and based on the legal definition. Such measures may only be introduced in a limited period of time. However, our measures have been extended several times. Knowing that safeguard measures are more a result of low customs duties than other domestic hazards and because of the fact that we have obtained observer status in the World Trade Organisation and have assumed the obligation to adapt our regulations to international standards, the Council of Minsiter is half of July '99. the year started with a change of tariff in 41 meaning the correction of ad valorem customs duties, both higher and lower, in terms of the conversion of special fees to imports of customs duties by unit of measure, the duty on imports by unit of duty. The new daffodils lasted until November 2000. In November 2000, the European Union, which is waste 45% of our exports, favoured us, is a completely free export of customs and quantitative restrictions, provided, inter alia, that no existing import burdens are increased and that BiH is involved in free trade with neighbouring countries and approaches to the World Trade Organisation. In the meantime, following the abolition of us, a symmetric free trade agreement with Croatia, which is being wasteful of the next 20% of our exports, a new asymmetric free trade agreement was concluded at the beginning of January of last year. Also, with the obligation not to increase existing import burdens. Under such conditions, the Council of Ministers in this meeting was in a position to propose only one possibility to change customs tariffs, which is to retain the same import burdens, i.e. the existing albalorin customs duties and the conversion of special taxis to customs by unit of measure. For more than a year in the parliamentary procedure and individual groups of the processing industry, built on the import of raw materials, have been trying to use the BiH position for their own benefit. They succeeded in delaying the adoption of the Council of Ministers' proposal. You can't say there's only one solution ahead of us. That's not true. There is only one solution in the interest of the Bosnian Herzegovina economy and there are others. We can not change the current customs tariff and start negotiations with the World Trade Organisation on its grounds, which would be very harmful, as only negotiating customs narrowing, increases are almost impossible or possible with very large concessions. We would start our reductions with the existing 6.8% and valorens customs, and import taxes would experience the fate of protective measures of temporary character. We can also go to an increase in import burdens, but we would lose all received and received preferences covering over 90% of BiH's exports. We can also not start negotiations with the World Trade Organisation and remain a lonely island alone enough. I want to mention once again to this parliament three countries in Europe are non-members of the World Trade Organisation Yugoslavia, Macedonia and BiH. Yugoslavia and Macedonia have just started negotiations with the World Trade Organisation and in order for BiH to start negotiations it needs a new tariff. In such conditions, if we were to opt for an option to be completely out of the way with multilateral trading institutions, our producers would be turned into monopolies that, based on world waste imports, would be packed here and sold to domestic consumers by very highly protected final products. Here in the BiH Parliament, we should say that our production is protected. Even in most products more than in one neighbouring country. I'm saying this from the point of view of protection of production based on customs burdens, although it's only one of the instruments of production protection. There are exceptions to the existing customs tariff relating to tobacco products or to certain dairy products, for example. There may also be unnecessary customs duties imposed on some goods. However, everything needs to be studied in detail, balanced every item in the Bosnian-Herzegovina customs tariff, especially from the point of view of future production in BiH. We're going to have to cut down anyway, and let's at least have something to lower in negotiations with the World Trade Organisation. When current safeguard measures are tariffd, i.e. Turning into a cryo per unit of action, the Council of Ministers will be able to go to the adoption of new ones in accordance with 42 laws. It takes time and our greatest practice, a lot of sense for understanding and other interests rather than just our own. I therefore suggest, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, that you adopt, as an emergency procedure, the material provided by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tariff Act, including the tariff. This is for BiH's economy in the given conditions of the best variant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7668	I thank the minister, Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović. Is anyone answering for a hearing? If no one appears, it should be stated that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act with a customs tariff is to be discussed in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Of the 34 who voted 21 for – 6 against – 6 abstentions. So you need an entity vote. Who's from RS for? Thank you. Who's from the Federation for? Thank you. From Federation of BiH 19 – from RS 2 – it is necessary to agree on this request to discuss it by emergency procedure. We're going to the 11th point. Ad.11. The proposal for a law on guaranteeing BiH's deposit – second reading This legislative proposal was adopted at the 27th session in the first reading. I remind you that in the plenary phase, we have amendments to Mr Tihomir Gligorić's distinguished representative, who filed on behalf of the club of representatives. So we're opening a debate on laws and amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7669	Dear Members of the Presidency, I am asked by Minister Domazet to apologize on his behalf, given that all the materials that come before the Council of Ministers to Parliament are explained by ministers. Minister Domazet already had an appointment in advance. That's why I'm going to be the Deputy Minister now to overwrite certain elements of this bill. The deposit insurance policy in BiH is currently organised at entity level, while the Federation of BiH has an Agency fully operational and funded with seven members, the Agency in RS is organised with employees but without banks or financial resources to carry out its activities. In short, I'll just give you a few sentences. As a side product of the agreement between the Council of Ministers, Entity Governments, the international community on the creation of a single economic space in May 2001, an official task force was formed at a meeting in Banja Luka under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance of the Federation and the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Slovenia, the Federation Insurance Agency and the Insurance Agency for Deposit Insurance of RS, the Central Bank of BiH, the World Bank, the OHR, the American Treasury, the GTS, USAID and K... thus starting the process of drawing up a draft state law on deposit insurance. The current working group was composed of representatives of those groups, except the Central 43 Bank, and met five times after an initial organisational meeting in Banja Luka and Sarajevo. The representatives of the USID and K donors... delivered a bill that had been drafted and agreed by the official task force. It was delivered to the Deputy Minister of the Federation, Minister Domazet, Deputy Minister of biti... and was asked by Minister Domazet to initiate an examination of the law at the Council of Ministers and to continue at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to complete the whole legislative procedure as soon as possible. At a meeting of the Co-ordination Council for Economic Development and European Integration of BiH in January, it was decided to be the head office of the state agency in Banja Luka. For the sake of delisity insurance institutions, I have to tell you less domestic banks, which meet the criteria for membership in the Deposit Insurance Fund, however, can be competitive to generally larger foreign banks operating on the BH market. This is, thanks to the fact that... he believes that his deposit is secured within the limits of deposit insurance. And if the current versions of the entity's deposit insurance laws were the starting point of the proposed law, the Union's deposit insurance directives were used, with the aim of making the operational management structure more fully operational, deposit insurance functions in BiH. In addition, current members of the Federal Deposit Insurance Fund had the opportunity to make comments and suggestions on the draft and some of their suggestions were incorporated into the proposed law. During the process of drafting the proposed law, opinions and demands of both entities were considered and incorporated into the Draft. This is in exchange through the representation of entity finance ministries and entity deposit insurance agencies. The proposed law itself was purposely made to highlight the fact that the new agency will be a state agency, which will lead the deposit insurance function throughout BiH. For this reason, the official task force to draw up a new agency's primary board to point out the direction and control of the state level, including the Exkprop law... the position on the board of directors. The five-member board of directors is such that the three members of the public institutions and the other two members are such that one member is appointed entity finance ministries. The official task force, in its discussions, agreed on such an arrangement and it was confirmed by two donors before... for this state agency. The draft deposit insurance law was also reviewed by the BiH Council of Ministers Legal Service and the conclusions of the review were a useful statement that the adoption of this law is extremely important for BiH. All objections to the legal... The Council of Ministers has been incorporated into the Bill's proposal. The BiH Treasury's recommendation, based on all of this, we propose the adoption of the BiH Deposit Insurance Act. The Federation and RS government, in accordance with Articles 27 and 32 of this Law, are required to send the entity's parliamentary procedure to the law on the abolition of the Federation and RS Deposit Insurance Agency, which is abolished by the entity's deposit insurance agencies. It takes the adoption of this proposed law, because there is a real possibility that the donor funds needed to... set up a state deposit insurance agency go to the other side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7670	I would like to thank Deputy Treasury Minister Mrs Gordana Ković for the reasons of this law. Who's answering for a word? So, at the plenary stage. Dear Mr Gligorić defends amendments that were not adopted on the commission, and there is a new amendment relating to the name of the law, so I don't know if the Council of Ministers' representative, that they and the rest of the matter, whether they had 44 opportunities for this new amendment that was given afterwards. So it's about amendments to the MPs and a new amendment relating to the name of the law. Did you have that? Banks of BiH. What is your position on these other amendments? If there are needs, which are not adopted on the defense committee? There's no need. Who's reporting from the esteemed advocates for the word? If no one answers, we'll close the debate. We need to make a statement first to the amendments. So, this amendment, first of all, we're going to Amendment number I. Amendment number I. So it's about the amendments that have been tabled in accordance with Article 94(2), so they're being defended in the plenary phase. Who's for the amendment number and the esteemed representative of Mr Gligorić? Wait a minute, I asked if there was any need and you said no.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7671	This amendment says deposit insurance is in banks.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7672	No, no, what they were on the commission and now they're defending themselves at the plenary stage. This is Article 18, paragraph 3, is amended and reads as follows: "The members of the Management Board of the Agency shall be appointed by the bodies of the institutions. The Management Board of the Banking Agency of the Republic of Slovenia and the Management Board of the Banking Agency of the Federation by one member. The board of directors of the Central Bank of one member, the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance of the FBiH by one member." So we return to the vote. Who's for amendment number I? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. The abstentions? Of the 34 who voted 12 for – 20 against – 2 abstentions. So you don't need an entity. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number ii Article 29, paragraphs 1 and 3 of amendment number II of the honourable representative, Mr Gligorić. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? Thank you. Of the 34 who voted – 12 for – 20 against and 2 abstentions, he did not get the required majority. We are now voting on the amendment of Mr Gligorić's equally respected representative. It's about the name of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? The abstentions? Of the 34 who pleaded 29 for – 4 against – no abstentions. There's no need for entity either. So this amendment has been adopted. 45 We are now pleading on the very proposal for a deposit insurance law in BiH banks. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? The abstentions? - 1 Of the 34 who pleaded 33 for no votes against - 1 abstention. So, we passed the Deposit Insurance Act in BiH banks. Thank you. Ad.12. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the BiH aviation law – the first reading of the bill sent to MPs on 3.04 this year. At the 25th session, Dom adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to consider the draft law by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. This law was also discussed by the competent Commission for Transport and Communications. The Commission found that there were no proposed amendments to the law. So we're having a debate about the law in the first reading. Is it in front of the Council of Ministers? There's no need. In front of the Commission. I'm opening a dispersion. If no one answers, I suggest we make a point about this bill of principles and principles. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? Thank you. Of the 33 who voted 24 in favour -- without votes against 8 abstentions would need entity. From the Federation of BiH who's in favour? From RS who's in favour? From Federation 20 for RS 3 for. So, he's going for a match. Ad.13. Proposal for a Law on Veterinary of BiH – first reading of the Proposal for a Law is sent to MPs on 11.06. At the 27th session of the House, a request from the Council of Ministers for the examination of the proposal under Article 104 was adopted. Rules of Procedure. You've received a report from the Constitutional First Commission on the proposal for this law. As you have seen, the Commission adopted a number of amendments, which form an integral part of the text. It's about first reading. So, about the suggestions. Does the promoter have a need to explain? There's no need. I'm pulverizing the first reading, according to article 95. Rules of Procedure. Who's answering for a word? The word has a distinguished author, Mr. Kulenović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7673	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important law, which, when adopted, which I hope today will happen in this first reading, create conditions and ensure protection and monitoring in the movement of animals and products of animal origin and exports to the European Union, as well as in neighbouring countries. It is a pity that this legal project has not been given the opportunity to identify experts at the base of the operation, because I am quite sure the solutions offered in this law would be even better. Generally speaking, it is noteworthy that all regular veterinary checks 46 of this law are categorized as veterinary-sanitary checks, which indicates that they are exclusively carried out by veterinary inspection, which is in collapsing with what is being done on the ground. In this regard are my renewed amendments, which should correct this illogicality and unfoundedness. Namely, to inform you of your classmates and colleagues, I have sent seven amendments regarding this law. The Constitutional and Legal Commission discussed it. They're not accepted. I later looked at these legal solutions again, and I reduced these seven amendments to three amendments, and I hope that in the second reading they will be accepted, because therefore these legal solutions will be far better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7674	I would like to thank Mr. Kulenović's esteemed agent. So it's about first reading. Is anyone else answering? If no one is answering, I suggest we make a statement about this veterinary law in BiH in the first reading. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. Of the 31 who voted 31 voted yes. So, we adopted the Proposal for a Law on Veterinary of BiH in the first reading. Thank you. Ad.14. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Central Bank of BiH – is about first reading – the proposed law of the BiH Presidency of the Law is addressed to lawmakers 22.05. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 17.06. The proposal for a law is under Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the House. I don't know if they all got it. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Is there anyone in front of the promoter? Is anyone picking up? If no one is answering, I suggest we make a statement on the draft law supplementing the BiH Central Bank Act – in the first reading. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? The abstentions? Of the 30 who pleaded 29 voted in favour, without votes against, without abstentions. So, we passed the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Central Bank Act in the first reading. Thank you. Ad.15. Proposal for a law on gender equality and gender equality in BiH – first reading The MPs received this bill on 17 April. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 23.04. The committee responsible for reviewing this law. The report was sent to you and actually sent to you on 14th of June. The debate is held in the first reading under Rule 95 of this Rules of Procedure. Is there any need for an introductory explanation? There isn't. Commission President-in-Office Ms Violeta Kamberović. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7675	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Gender Equality of the House of Representatives at its meeting of 11.6.2002 discussed the principles, principles and norms of the proposed law, as well as the amendments tabled. The amendments were submitted by representative Željko Bilbija on behalf of the PDP, SNSD, DSP.... as well as representative Amor Mašović. Following the debate, the Commission unanimously accepted Mr Amor Mašović's amendments and the amendments were adopted unanimously by the Commission. I want to say that the Committee on Gender Equality has adopted the unanimous text of the Proposal for a Law on Equality and I believe that this House has enough maturity to adopt this law, if nothing but the future generations that come after us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7676	I thank the distinguished representative, Mrs. Violeta Kambrović, for the opening statement. Mr. Željko Bilbija. I note that this is about first reading. So, the amendments, if someone rebuilds, they'll come in phase two of the second reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7677	I would ask the President of the Commission for an explanation. On behalf of the Club, I have tabled amendments and from our club, a member of the Commission, Mr Stokic. As an amendment promoter, no one informed me of the Commission's maintenance and Mr Stokić told me that he had been informed of the meeting of the Commission two hours before the meeting of the Commission and that he could not attend. It is the right of the Commission to accept or reject amendments, but I think that, however, if nothing was necessary to inform the promoter that he was attending the session. For this reason, I will not in principle support this law. Because I have doubts about what was going on and what was going on, but no one from the RS and no one from our club attended the Commission's session or was informed.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7678	I'd like to thank Mr. Bilbija, the esteemed agent. Rijeka has a distinguished representative, Mrs. Violeta Kamberović. It remains for you to renew the amendments at the very least. So you've already done that.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7679	I just want to tell Mr. Željko Bilbija that everyone, so the members of the Commission, in time, received invitations to hold a session. Which means Mr. Stokić also received a call for the session. However, there is one rule among the individual members of the Commission that they do not respond to the sessions so that they are not in the course of the events. I think Mr Stokić, as a member of the Commission, should respond to every session and to the one where he was to be present so that you would have a representative from the RS. Thank you. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7680	I thank the honourable representative, Mrs. Kamberović. Who else is answering for a word? I mean, in any case, the amendment promoter should be invited, but here you have renewed the amendments, so you'll have a chance to defend them at the plenary stage. Is anyone else picking up? If it does not answer, I am concluding the debate and I propose that we make a statement on the proposal for a law on gender equality and gender equality in BiH in the first reading. Who's in? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? Of the 29 who are there – 25 for – 3 abstentions. So you don't need an entity statement. We adopted this bill in our first reading. Ad.16. The proposal for a law on BiH's medals – also the first reading of the bill was sent to lawmakers on 3.04.2002. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 14.5 o.g. Report by the Constitutional and Legal Commission to the representatives 26.06. o.g. At first, it is conducted in the first reading, in accordance with Article 95. Rules of Procedure. Is there a need for an introductory explanation? There isn't. Mr Abdurahman Malkić, the esteemed representative, appears for the word. Anyone else want one? It's about first reading that you know, principles and principles.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7681	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I have read this law, and in any case I will support the adoption of this law, but I see certain provisions are missing, say, when, in law nowhere is it said when and who will perform the award of honour? When? Namely, on what basis and when it will be done whether it will be at the time of national holidays, the days of statehood, the days of independence, because we have here, then the days of peace, or I don't know what, when we already have medals in that direction. We have a freedom order. Shall we assign him to New Year's Eve? Or, possibly no offense to anyone, perhaps for March 8th. I think it's distinguished to be precise when it's to be assigned and in what solemn days let's say so and it's logical to be at the time of a state holiday. In that direction, I will make amendments, but I believe that this law is not in principle precise.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7682	I thank the honourable representative, Mr Abdurahman Malkić. Anyone else want one? If he doesn't want me to conclude the debate and suggest that we make a statement on the proposal for a law on the merits of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading? Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? There isn't. The abstentions? Thank you. Of the 27 that are there, 23 for, without votes against, with two abstentions. So we adopted the Proposal for a Law on the Features of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. 49 Thank you, we're going to the 17th item of the agenda. It's Ad. 17. The proposal for a resolution on young people in Bosnia and Herzegovina is being proposed by prominent representatives of this home, many of them. Will anyone, on behalf of the motionor, give an introductory explanation? Here on behalf of the promoter, honourable representative Mr. drag Stanimirović. Here is how in the shortest words about the resolution of young people in Bosnia and Herzegovina that you have already received. The fact that in Bosnia and Herzegovina almost all institutions do not have a system of bodies that take care of the country's young inhabitants, and we have defined that this is 14-30 years of age. For this reason, the initiative stemmed from NGOs from all over Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federation and Republika Srpska. It included representatives of local youth councils who exist in both entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, also one number of other organisations such as the Federation of Scouts, the youth council of Republika Srpska. And they all initiated that on 11 June in this same building of Parliament we held a debate on the draft resolution that they actually made. And this draft resolution that you have received is practically their proposal and they have come together to the text of this proposal. The purpose of the resolution is to create basic assumptions for the creation of youth policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina by adopting it. It practically asks the Council of Ministers to form in one of its ministries, here talking about the Ministry of European Integration, where young people do not think it is one body that will be a very large, new bureaucratic body, but simply think it is necessary for the state to start taking care of them. Secondly, they demand that our parliamentary assembly also have one commission as an official working body, so at the level of the legislative authority in Bosnia and Herzegovina and thirdly, a Youth Advisory Committee is proposed to be composed of experts, which would be governmental, which would allow young people to work on the development of official youth policy. I don't think there's much to explain, which is why it's important to adopt this resolution. The situation of young people in society is extremely difficult, our education system is outdated and is not adequate for our young people to meet the challenges of a new technological age in the 21st century. It is also the point of making better communication between the authorities and not only at the state level, but also the purpose of this initiative to commit, in a similar way, the entity, cantonal, municipal authorities, and in particular I think that it is the obligation of the large municipal authorities to respect the existing European Charter of Rights of Youth Participation in the work of the local community. So, I think that the minimum of what we can do as a House of Representatives, and I hope that the House of Peoples will also support this resolution by supporting the rights of young people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So much and thank you. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7685	Madam Chairman, fellow MPs, as one of the participants of the Youth Parliament in this Chamber and the signatories of this motion for a resolution, means I support the adoption of a resolution on youth. I also accept this explanation by my colleague Stanimirović, but I want to give further explanations for why I signed this and what kind of relationship I have against this resolution. In fact, it is an act that has its place in the parliamentary life of each country's democratic one, and above all in Bsona and Herzegovina. Secondly, since no one has said that, if you look more closely and examine the composition of the motions of the resolution, then you will see that these are people from almost all the clubs of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I point out this because this resolution means that if we want it to be accepted and realised on the ground, we should not take it as a project of one political option, nor should we allow it as serious people to be used for pre-election or other purposes by individuals or individual political options. I think that if it is accepted it should be the result of the awareness of this home and the expression of the meaning of the parliamentary relationship, the relationship between the Parliamentary Assembly and the issues and the problems of young people in this country at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7686	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Marko Amidžić. Is anyone else picking up? The word has an esteemed representative, Mr. Sead Buturović, as well as one of the signatories.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7687	Dear Presidency, members of the College, gentlemen of the delegates, and I am one of the signatories of this resolution. I was at this youth forum in the youth parliament. What's important to point out is that the country's largest export product is young. Young people leave the country because of unemployment, poor education systems. Since they are neither represented in the executive nor in the legislative authorities, young people wanted to take matters into their own hands and suggest the formation of new bodies that my predecessor had brought out. I absolutely support this resolution and support their position to take their fate and these countries into their own hands. That's it. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7688	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Sead Butorivić. Is anyone else picking up? If no one hears from me, I'm closing the debate and I suggest we make a statement about the proposed resolution. So it's about the young people's resolution. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Is anyone against the young? Thank you. The abstentions? No 24, 23 for, no votes against, no abstentions. I realize we've adopted a resolution on young people. Thank you. We're going to the 18th point of the agenda, that's Ad. 18. The resolution proposed by the distinguished representative of this house, Mr. Sead Buturović, you all got the resolution. She's short. That's where the proposer's going.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7689	I explained a little something last time. I'll be very brief this time. We're witnessing that they're constantly breaking, not respecting basic universal human rights. There are differences between entities. Even in the Federation between cantons. I cited examples of basic fundamental human rights, the right to health care, social security, the right to education. Given that, according to all international conventions, declarations, agreements by the state guarantee of human rights, I would suggest, I have also proposed in the resolution that this House obliges all state, entity bodies, executive authorities to provide mechanisms for the implementation and security of basic universal rights. That is what I have proposed in this resolution and I would ask the Members of Parliament to support this resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7690	I thank the honourable representative, Mr Sead Buturović, who briefly explained the motion for a resolution. Who's answering for a word? Is anyone picking up? If no one hears from me, I will conclude the debate and I would suggest that we make a statement about the resolution that Mr. Sead Buturović has tabled and explained. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. Of the 26 who voted, 26, no votes against, no abstentions. So we unanimously adopted the proposed resolution. Thank you. 52 We move to the 19th point of the agenda. It's Ad. 19. Giving consent to ratification under (a) and (b) Under (a) The Treaty on Trade in Textile Products between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina Whether, in front of the Council of Ministers, there is a Minister. There's no need. Whether or not the representatives of the Commission. Mr. Marko Amidžić has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7691	Madam Chairman, fellow MPs, you have received the opinion of the Foreign Affairs Commission from yesterday's session at which the Commission discussed the Treaty on Trade in Textile Products between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina and this Development Credit Agreement. I would like to point out, among other things, that at yesterday's session, with the presence of the distinguished minister, we have received answers to a number of questions on these two documents and we propose to the House of Representatives to ratify both the Treaty on Trade in Textile Products and the Development Credit Agreement. And the reason why I came out is to highlight the Commission's or the House's proposal to declare to the House on this proposal the conclusion that by the end of the year, the House of Representatives report on the competence of Bosnia and Herzegovina's competent institutions to effectively comply with the obligations to issue licences when it comes to trade in textile products between the EU and Bosnia and Herzegovina and the other, other licences for these Bosnia and Herzegovina business entities. That is the unanimous conclusion of the Commission. I think he was basically supported by the minister during this debate, so he would ask that the House, in parallel with the ratification of these two acts, be made known and on the proposal of this conclusion, not to repeat, so it is clear that you have it written and written, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7692	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Marko Amidžić. Is anyone else picking up? If it does not appear, I suggest we enter a plea on the Treaty on Trade in Textile Products between the EC and BiH. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Of the 30 who voted, 30 for, without votes against, abstentions. So we unanimously supported this contract. Thank you. 53 We move to point b) of the Development Credit Agreement (A credit for adapting the business environment) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association Does it need to explain? An explanation in front of the Council of Ministers. Here is Minister Azra Hadžiahmetović, who will give a brief clarification.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7693	Short. It is one of the most important projects of development programmes concluded with the World Bank that is essentially supporting the implementation of an action plan to remove administrative barriers to investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The BAC's shortfall refers to the improvement of the business environment. A short project, the amount of the loan is $44m, or $35.3m of special drawback rights according to IDA standards 35 years with Grace for a 10-year period with an interest rate that applies only to service costs of about.75% and with users of Bosnia and Herzegovina's loan to $4m, the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina 24m and Republika Srpska 16m. This loan would actually support the government's reform programme to improve investment environments and further develop a single economic space, and the objectives of the programme are in this, the objectives of the programme, I want to continue, reforms are the reduction of administrative barriers that have the most significant direct impact on the next stages of business success. First, to facilitate business start-up through access to business registration and authorisation in strengthening the legal framework and capacity to attract investments and Second, to create a clear business environment by reducing administrative and regulatory conditions that companies need to meet by rationalising inspections, regulations, strengthening judicial and non-judicial capacity to resolve economic disputes and improving the execution of guaranteed transactions and giving space to the private sector. Of course, it also facilitates the termination of business through better bankruptcy of the bankruptcy system, i.e. liquidation. I would briefly mention that the BAC will cover three areas of key importance for facilitating business and strengthening the private sector, which is the start of business, means registration and availability of capital only for business, i.e. private sector participation in public procurement, reduction of inspections and consultation on the public sector and termination of business, i.e. bankruptcy or liquidation. A short, basic design of the programme is a 44m loan would be used in two tranches, and representatives of the Federation and Republika Srpska agreed to transfer the state from the first tranche to the Federation 2.4 and Republika Srpska $1.6m. The total first tranche is 19 million and would be used as soon as the loan becomes effective. Another reminder therefore supports the implementation of an action plan to remove administrative barriers to investment in BiH. The action plan was adopted by both the Council of Ministers and both entity governments. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7694	I thank Minister Hadžiahmetović for the explanation of this agreement and the need for its adoption. Is anyone picking up? If no one hears from me, I will conclude the debate and I suggest we make a statement on the agreement on a development loan between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. Of the 31 who voted 31 for it. So we adopted the Agreement, we supported the Development Credit Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association. Thank you. I would also like to make clear on the conclusion proposed by the Commission for Foreign Affairs of this House, which is that by the end of the year a report on the competence of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions is being drawn up that it is effective to fulfil obligations in licenseting trade in textile products between the EC and BiH. Is there any need to discuss it? If there's no one in favor? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. I find that with 31 votes in favour, without votes against and abstentions, we have adopted a conclusion proposed by the Commission for the Foreign Affairs of this House. Thank you. We're going to the 20th point of the agenda. It's Ad. 20. The draft law on the establishment of the Interim Commission for the Preparation of Amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, as you know at the 27th session, was held a debate on the formation of this commission. A number of proposals have been made. At yesterday's session, however, the Extended College agreed that this commission consisted of seven members. One representative at a time from every club. So all clubs have proposed, and considering that the Commission's work is open, other interested representatives can be included to help prepare as best as possible. No matter what the elections are and no matter how much this commission can do and I think it's good, there are MPs here who can make a lot of suggestions useful, so if we don't finish it all, it can help as material and those who come behind us. Mostly I'd make 55.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7695	Mr. Chairman in one parliament of the world, an independent MP has the status of having the right to participate in the work of every parliamentary body, including the Kolegijum. [[speaks from place, not turned on]] You simply ignore independent MPs to this extent, for you think that the collective consciousness of communism is still rooted in spiritual....
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7696	Here I suggest we join the independent MPs and have them. So the proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Commission, that I first suggest what is. So there is a temporary commission of 7 members: - SDP Representatives' Club Sead Avdić, - SDA Representatives' Club Abdurahman Malkić, - Party for BiH Representatives' Club Emina Začiragić, - SDS Representatives' Club Miloš Jovanović, - Mixed Club PDP-SNS continues Mirko Banjac, - HDU Miro Grabovac Titan, - Club NHI DSP BPS Halil Mehtić. So this commission, they will. Here's the debate. Who's calling? Mr. Amidžić's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7697	Fellow MPs, gentlemen chairman, I would like to ask you if we can be patient because it's about the last item, and if we want to, well, if it's in this written agenda. We had a very broad discussion at one of the previous sessions about this. Because of what I said then, I am now obliged to say that this conclusion is really in a very serious way prepared and I support it as an act for today's debate. So in addition to the proper way of preparing the conclusion, I support point 1, i.e. the composition of this committee. I also support point two to be called by the president, because that's the rule and order. I support points 4, 5 and 6, and my intervention and proposals mean points 3 of this conclusion, or I don't think we need to leave a 60-day deadline for the first version of that job. So here I am proposing 30 days, but if that's short, let's now speculate on another deadline, but the 60-day deadline is a little bit associated with that commission topic from some long time ago that's not going to meet and do anything. 56 So I'm proposing a slightly more serious deadline he's more serious at this point if we cut him short. And secondly, in paragraph 1(3), I propose the addition of point 3.(2), and this supplement is in this sense, I allow it to be readjusted later, office offices – in its work to prepare a proposal for amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, the Interim Commission will consider all initiatives and proposals that have come from the MPs of the House of Representatives, a group of MPs and parliamentary clubs in earlier initiatives for change. I'm discussing this proposal now. We are opening up the possibility for those MPs who, in their earlier conclusions and agreements, have sent an initiative to treat their initiatives correctly by the Commission that they should be invited to the Commission to explain whether it is in accordance with our rules of procedure, etc. to participate in the work of the Commission and thus to reconcile those problems that we have had perhaps at one or two meetings related to these initiatives of MPs. I believe that this should not bother anyone, and if there is a need, if there is a need for other initiatives, in that case, it means that by adopting this conclusion, if we open up the possibility that the initiatives continue to be directed, then I am in order that this deadline for initiatives is as short as possible in accordance with our rules of procedure that the Commission may at some time when it is established to sit down and agree on its programme and work procedure. I consider this supplement to be a constructive and correct proposal in terms of our serious work on this Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure represent, in one hand, constitutional matter. No Niko here is mistaken that it will go so easily and that we will change it so quickly, but let's go to the interview procedure, and we don't have to end these talks at the very least, but let's communicate with our initiatives and suggestions, and if we don't finish them by the end of the term, we won't even finish them, but we don't have the right to wait with the preparation procedure of something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-16-0.u7698	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Marko Amidžić. I think these are useful additions to this Article 3. So I think it's time for it to be about 45 days and to add this item to all the initiatives that the distinguished MPs have proposed, and there were several because we had deadlines before they were treated normally, in the end, the MPs will adopt it and will always be able to intervene on that. Is there any more need to discuss? If there's no one for this conclusion means the formation of a commission? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. Of the 33 who voted 30 in favour, no votes against, no abstentions. So we adopted this conclusion. Thank you. 57 We move to the 21st point of the agenda. Ad. 21. The Council of Ministers' request that the proposal for a law on the movement and residence of foreigners and asylum be considered in accordance with Article 104 means shortened deadlines, is not the most urgent I am opening a debate about discussing this very important law, but under these reduced procedures. Is there anyone outside the Council of Ministers to explain? There isn't. I'm closing up. There's no one here. I propose that we support this conclusion that this law is considered with a shortened deadline in accordance with Article 104. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? One, thank you. Of the 34 who voted 33 for one abstention. So we adopted this conclusion 104. We finished today's session. The session was completed at 18.25 hours.
