ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5919	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 20th House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to MPs for the session, they were called: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, allow me to welcome the present members of the Presidency of Mr Radišić and Mr Belkić, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, the OHR representative, the OSCE representative, the European Union representative and representatives of the BiH Embassy. Mr. Frank Orton, the Ombudsman for Human Rights in BiH, was invited to attend the session. According to a report, 40 MPs attend the session, 26 MPs from the Federation of BiH and 14 MPs from RS. So we have a quorum and we can work. No one has announced a leave of absence from the MPs at today's session. Gentlemen, in the invitation to the session, or shortly before the session, you received a proposal for a agenda. Before we move to the debate on the proposed agenda, I propose that we implement two previous issues, which are the verification of Parliament's mandate to the new MP Purić Mirsad and that we hear the presentation of Mr Franko Orton's Ombudsman for Human Rights in BiH. I suggest we verify the mandate of the new MP first. As you know, Members of Parliament in the House of Representatives remain the vacant seat of MPs at the Party Club for BiH, as the previous MP, Mrs Mediha Filipović, took on another duty, was appointed BiH ambassador to Sweden. It is my duty to introduce to you that I have been informed by the President of the Election Commission of BiH that at a session held on 29 January, the Commission has accepted the resignation of Mr Sava Vlaškov, who was previously appointed as MP instead of Mrs Filipović, who gave up the parliamentary position, and that the Commission has determined that the next qualified candidate on the list of the Party for BiH, Mr Mirsad Purić, who has appointed MP of the House of Representatives. I urge Mr. Purić to make a solemn statement in front of the House and thereby assume his parliamentary duty. Here you go, sir. Mr. Purić, please repeat after me. I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5921	I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5922	Respect the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5923	Respect the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5924	Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5925	Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5926	Protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5927	Protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5928	I congratulate the new MP on taking over his duties and wish him successful work. Gentlemen, we will continue our work. [[Applause]] Congratulations are over. You'll get a chance to congratulate Mr. Purić if you're not here right now. Let's move on. From the club heads, you are aware that the extended college held at the 23rd January session has accepted Mr. Franko Orton's proposal to address the House. Mr Orgon has already addressed the issue of the rule of law, which has been very current in this country already addressed to other parliaments. He addressed the House of Peoples in our parliament, addressed the entity parliaments, the National Assembly of RS, and addressed the Parliamentary Assembly of the Federation of BiH, both at home. It is my pleasure and honor to invite Mr. Franko Ortin to take his word and tell us about the subject of the rule of law. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5929	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished members of the House, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to be here today and to be given the opportunity to address you on the subject of the rule of law. I think you agree with me that the concept of rule of law is a very important concept in this country, along with its construction and economic prosperity. However, it is quite by chance that I address you just today when the rule of law takes a special place on the agenda because of the recent surrender of so-called. Algerian groups. They say the chairman had already said that, it was quite an accident that last fall I addressed the House of Peoples at the 3rd level of the state, also to the homes of the people at the level of the Federation and the National Assembly in Banja Luka.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5930	Excuse me, Mr. Orton. It's a small technical intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5931	Perhaps some of you remember that I was here on the 6th of November when I was supposed to address this home, but because of some unscheduled issues you had to resolve, my presentation was delayed. Many people in this country, as well as representatives of the international community, often mention the importance of the rule of law. Given that I am at the head of a domestic human rights Ombudsman institution in BiH and that it is my mandate to promote the rule of law as well as the protection of human rights and good administration that I fully agree. However, when you ask many of these people who so often point out the importance of the rule of law. What exactly does that concept mean? Then the answer you receive is not very clear and for this reason I am here today and I am speaking to you to convey my opinion on what is actually meant by the concept of rule of law. I don't just want to tell you what this concept means and how important it is, but also to explain the reasons why it's so important. In return, I hope you will convey this message to the other citizens of this society, to ordinary people. Especially to civil servants and politicians of your fellow citizens where other concepts and other cultures still prevail. In my opinion, the rule of law implies the following. The government first means that the law will rule that a reasonable interpretation of the law will rule the society and activities of all people. By the activities of every official he was a minister, a judge or an ordinary worker in the administration. They must do their best to follow the law wisely. If the law is bad, then the same law must change. Ministers, judges, ordinary administration workers, civil servants, should not follow the law of friendship. Not to follow the law of money, not across or under the table. Not the advice of political leaders, not the ethnicity of the party. Such thoughts are the echoes of the past and some rule of law prevails. The civil servants are there to serve the people in accordance with the law, and they should serve them rather than boss them, which is why they are called officers, which is why they are officials. So they should do it properly, justly and impartially. So what is meant by the terms rightly, justly and impartially, therefore, is the explanation of these three words in the document and the brochure that will be available to you after my lecture. So the documents are available in both English and domestic language and the brochure is only available in the local language. And by the way, let me tell you that there are two other documents that I think you'll benefit from in this context and these are on the table right over here. So, on the table next to the secretary. When I mentioned these words justly, rightly and impartially, I would point out that they specifically refer to judges in this country. It is very important that judges do not follow the advice of political party leaders over the phone or to make judgments in favour of their friends or to make judgments because they are given a certain amount of money. That's what I'm telling you from my four experiences because I've been a judge in Sweden for 20 years, at all three levels of the Swedish judiciary, and from time to time, it's been my job to promote the efficiency of judicial systems, also in developing countries. So when it comes to the choice of judges, it is very important to choose people who are effective, people who have knowledge and experience and people who are impartial. I think this message of mine is of great importance to this country and I hope you will remember it and pass it on to your colleagues, who, too, are involved in the process of appointing judges in all courts in the country within two entities as well as at the state level. You know that an impartially effective judicial system is the cornerstone of modern democracy and judges in courts are those who, after all, need to ensure that the rule of law prevails. Why is rule of law so important? The rule of law implies order and stability in society, which means a reasonable possibility for the envisaged decision of the authorities, that includes decisions to be implemented and those implemented. This implies security from discretion that is not provided for by law and most importantly opens the way for foreign investment, as foreign investors will continue to hesitate to invest their money in a country they are not sure will properly sanction a breach of the contract. Or if some bureaucratic obstacles cause problems when opening or hitching their jobs, then foreign investors will invest their money somewhere else. If you want to promote prosperity for the citizens of this country, then you must pass laws and make other efforts to create an atmosphere in this country that will be suitable for foreign investment. That's exactly what you'll do if you promote the rule of law. The governance of the state according to the rule of law is, I repeat, the cornerstone of modern democracy. Without rule, all sweet speeches about human rights and freedoms are in vain and are not in harmony with the everyday lives of citizens. Without it, human rights and freedoms cannot be applied or injuries can be properly sanctioned or corrected. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, finally let me say, the wealthy men in high places are those who have authority, the members of this house, so you can succeed without the rule of law. You will always be able to realize your interests. The rule of law is there, above all, to protect people on the street and to increase the layers of women's population in the field and to ensure them a normal and decent life. As I said at the beginning of my exorcism, the rule of law is a very popular idea in today's BiH. Members of the international community point out its importance in every speech and domestic politicians and you repeat it every day and it becomes the most politically correct oath. However, the number of speakers explains what they mean by the rule of law, and many speakers do not refer to its implications and its application. I'd like to conclude this address of mys, I'd say it's all simple. The land is built by law. They should all be equal in front of the law. Niko one should be above the law. We should all be bound by law. The rule of law is a symbol of modern European democracy. Thank you very much. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5932	Thank you. We thank Mr. Franko orton for the very interesting presentation and attention that the MPs gave him, very carefully following the very topic of government first. Gentlemen, we are moving on to the agenda. You've received a draft agenda in a call for the 20th session. Yesterday, a session of Colleges was held in an extended composition, in which, due to a number of circumstances, there was a change in the proposed agenda. The extended college, all the changes he accepted by consensus, and I assume you've been informed by the club's bosses. It is my duty to point out that the previous draft agenda, which you received in the call for a session, excludes the point below the 3rd point. A report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of an agreement on the edible text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of BiH. The Joint Commission has not yet completed its work. That's what they've been informing us about, and that's why this point isn't even possible. The Commission assessed the need to carry out further consultations in order to reach agreement on the uniform text of the law. The college had a little intervention, please appreciate that. The College's report on the Commission's report on human rights, immigration, refugees and asylum. It is a report on a visit to BiH's municipalities. The report did not last get the necessary entity majority. The College sought to fully agree on the matter and the work was completed by the beginning of this session. He didn't get the job done, and we're asking you to understand that. As for the inclusion, it stays for the next session. As for the inclusion in the agenda of other points, we assume that the club heads have notified the MPs. In short, gentlemen, you have received an amended or final draft agenda for this session. Here you go. Who is reporting for the draft agenda for the 20th session. Here you go. My colleague Šarganović, I apologize to Filipović. I expected you to be...
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5933	President-in-Office of the Bureau, members of the Council of Ministers, fellow MPs and MPs, on the agenda item under Rule 7. Information on the events concerning the Algerian group, I would like to inform this House that the Commission for Human Rights, Refugees and Asylum has, on two occasions, analysed all the documents that we have received from the competent authorities on our request and, in that sense, I would like to report to this House on the final views of this Commission, when it comes to this subject of debate. You got it on the tables, but all one thing for the public I'll read it. In accordance with Rule 40 of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, the Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum, held at the 12th session of 5 February and continued at the 12th session of the 11th February, it discussed events related to the arrest and deportation of the so-called Algerian groups. Official information on disputed events from the Council of Ministers, the Supreme Court of BiH, the Ombudsman for Human Rights for BiH, has been requested to take views. As an insight was made into the institutions mentioned 6incontroversies, the Commission found that the proceedings before the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court of BiH and the Human Rights House for BiH were conducted in connection with the disputed events. Due to these circumstances, the Commission has unanimously concluded that the final position on these events will take place after it receives final decisions from the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court of the Federation of BiH, and the Human Rights House for BiH. For this reason, as a member of the Commission and also on behalf of the SDP Members' Club, I propose that the debate under this item of the agenda be postponed, so point 7. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5934	Thank you, fellow Filipović. Here's my colleague Amidžić and my colleague, Borić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5935	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, allow me a brief explanation, and it concerns first and foremost the need to say at first that I support the draft agenda for today's session, so I will make myself clear. However, as President of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I need to give one explanation to my colleagues. In fact, the College has already proposed that the 14th item of the agenda be a proposal for conclusions on the issue of foreign policy. And you remember that we had a debate on foreign policy at the 17th session of the House of Representatives, 13th of last year and that you had one working version of those conclusions. On the other hand, we held a joint meeting of the Commission and the College, and I thank them for the members of the College, particularly Mr Mirjanić and Avdić, who attended this session of the Commission and discussed one working version of the material bearing the date 22.1.o. Perhaps that version is in front of you. However, I repeat this is the working version, which retreaded the session of the Commission and the College, but at the same time either you have or you are already getting a harmonised version of the conclusions, I repeat, you will also recognize this final text which, in my opinion, should be the subject of the debate on this 14th item of the agenda, which is the paper that is carrying the date 25.1. of this year, which is based immediately on regular number 1 on Articles 26 and 27. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, not at the earlier 142 and 143, and what paper has, means the title of conclusions, i.e. the conclusions of the plural in relation to the first working version. Please accept this as a basis for discussion at today's session and please prepare, in the meantime, that, if you need an amendment to act on this final text of the proposal to use this time for this and that is the reason for my intervention and my exit here. So, I repeat, please accept this explanation as to what is the final text of this paper that will be discussed today if the House of Representatives accepts it and try it now, because it really is the result of a broad debate of several sessions etc. We act as an amendment and accept it as a Home document. Thank you. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5936	Thank you, fellow Amidžić, if I understand you correctly, you have no intervention on the agenda, you accept it, you just wanted to explain the material that the Commission sent to the House. I have been informed by the Service that MPs have received the necessary material and that there are no problems and we will discuss this point when it comes to the agenda if it is accepted. A colleague, Borić, answered the words.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5937	Gentlemen, it has indeed been helpful to hear Mr. Norton about the rule of law and here and in front of the SDA's Club we thank him for our opportunity to remind us of the rule of law in one country and about democracy. I have one principled remark yesterday, as the chairman of the General Assembly said, and we were treating the agenda points that were in that session of the Expansive College. I realized, I don't know maybe I'm wrong that it's going to be the agenda of this session. In the invitation to this session, the truth, as part of the agenda, were the ones that we got today as the final agenda. We've been working late as a club and we've stuck to this point of the Expansive College, so we haven't treated a number of questions. That's one question. Maybe it's a mistake with me or a mistake in college, but I'd like to make it more clear somehow. I would also remind the College and this home that in the last session I asked the question in front of the MPs' Club, to submit information on the journeys of the Colleges of both homes and on the results achieved with these trips, and I expected it to be treated at this home, so it was promised. One of the MPs expressed doubts about such a possibility. Yesterday I received my assurance from the chairman that it was interpreted as such. I therefore ask that this information be included not for our sake, but for the public to start here once and be credible, to talk about the truth that what we say simply believes us, because we are the messengers of the people and to send a one-off message from this home, that what we are doing, what we agree and that we are so honest and think, so I ask that this question, therefore, travel information be placed on the agenda and treated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5938	Thank you, fellow Borić. If you want, I can get the information right away, I think it's okay. There's no misunderstanding here. The explanation is this. It is true that he Borić that we had removed from the last session with the aim of putting it on the Extended College and this session, which is a report on international and interstate parliamentary visits by delegations. We at the College thought it was enough to deliver material at point 2. Therefore, MPs have received answers to Mr Ibrahim Đedović's parliamentary question at 2nd point, where exactly the report on these visits and delegations was given. Point 2. So the material is delivered. Point 2 is more broadly formulated, and it allows not only MPs who have asked a concrete question about the answer to the question to be discussed, but also other MPs. It was a motive run by the College and the Expansive College yesterday to formulate the agenda. 8 The draft agenda you got and that's what was at the Expansive College session yesterday. There is no problem, colleague Borić, we have agreed that your proposal, since you put on the Extended College of the Reserve yesterday, we have agreed that we will put your proposal to a vote if you answer the floor at the House session. Here you go. Comrade Banjac, I just saw him. The first one I can't remember before, here's my colleague, Banjac, and we'll be going in a row of the many reported ones. Let's take it in a row.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5939	Dear gentlemen, esteemed members of the Presidency, distinguished guests, when an unacceptable practice becomes ever more fundamental, simply a man can't keep his mouth shut, which is it. We are being delivered here by materials on benches on very important issues, issues that require extraordinary preparation. If you gentlemen think you can do things like this, then you're wrong. First of all, it's what it's like. I don't go in as anyone prepares and respects everyone's private approach, but the fact that I can't allow myself to discuss very important issues for this country in a way that delivers material on a bench and that's no longer a coincidence, this becomes a practice. I protest as a man against this kind of work. I feel that this is the most damaging to the BiH Parliament and its dignity, and I ask that this be the last time otherwise we cannot vote here, because it is quite clear that there is a parliamentary majority, but I am asking this parliamentary majority to do so, where you will be able to do so, as far as you can, and many questions are being raised when it comes to this kind of approach to work. Gentlemen, I'm not a voting machine and I want to speak with argument, I want to prepare, I'm not allowed to do that.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5940	Thank you, comrade Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5941	And one more thing. For all materials, for which they are not neatly and in time delivered to the MPs, I suggest we make a statement and take them off the agenda even if we continue the session in a day or two. This parliament can't work out. It should work when there is a need for work and leave time to prepare the session. Secondly, there are growing numbers of MPs expressing desire and professionalising. So, it's our job to work, gentlemen. I'm asking you to plead today. You can, of course, vote, I understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5942	A fellow Banjac only one explanation to specify your proposal. Which agenda do you mean? Just to name names.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5943	For all the points that the Rules of Procedure and you need as a College to know which dots are and in principle I'm not going to tell them now. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5944	We can't make a statement about your proposal right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5945	If the College of the House doesn't know what's now divided into clubs.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5946	Thank you very much. Who answers the word. A fellow Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5947	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Presidency, fellow Members, colleagues and other guests, and I, too, have some remarks regarding the draft agenda not only for this assembly but for all the almost congregations we have had in the last three or four months. I remember three congregations ago I came with one agenda, when I came to this congregation that agenda was completely withdrawn and delivered to us another agenda of twenty points. I think it's unserious and here I'm going to specifically suggest points 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 have been delivered to us now as new points and I think it's unserious to come to the session even though it clearly says in the Rules of Procedure that we need the material to come 10 days ahead. We've got it now, and we need to get to the bottom of these agenda points in a couple of maybe an hour or two. As an MP, I don't think I'm ready for that kind of work. You'd suggest further. We get the materials in advance for a month, two three days, we don't know which points. We should get ready. I can't prepare for 100 dots or 20 dots. I would suggest that every congregation goes by the Rules of Procedure to get 10 days' advance material and that's the material we need to discuss. Other materials, except in some emergencies, but we're getting these emergencies into a habit. We each have an emergency session. I can't understand that, I can understand that something really comes up and that we can urgently discuss something. But if we had a 3-4-point emergency for each session, I can't figure it out. I suggest that the agenda point that we get 10 days before or 10 points that we get before that is the material that we discuss at that session for which we are invited, and none other than in some cases if the members of the Bureau so require or urgently require something from the Council of Ministers. But it can't be three, four, five, six and seven points. Half the agenda is urgent. It may be an extremely urgent point, but not a ten point. If he can, I would suggest that we really get the agenda, so we get the material 10 days or 15 days before, but that's the agenda we get. I now have 5-6 materials at home, I can't prepare for those 10 materials and I don't know who they're going to be. And I get ready for one, I come in with one material, I bring in one material, when I come in here, I get delivered to someone else, I have no idea about this material. I'm really not capable of that kind of discussion. There you go. Thank you. And I suggest that, specifically for these four points, three, four, five, six, and seven, they take off, because they weren't. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5948	I beg you, I'm wrong, is your proposal referring to point 6. You said three, four, five, seven, and now you said two times six. Thank you very much. Here you go. Mr. Majdandžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5949	The Honorable Presidency, esteemed MPs and MPs, the esteemed guests, my proposal refers under point 6. understanding that I need it somehow close and professionally, I even have a department from the transfer of electricity, but I find it difficult to understand some things, I find it difficult to raise my hand as an MP, an MP to adopt. Then I wonder who's a little bit more foreign about how they're just going to vote and adopt and do it. There are a lot of these questions, there are also comments, there are collapsies of some by the members who derogate themselves, etc., so I would briefly suggest that this goes or as a first reading, means that they can still be put up with the corresponding amendments, etc. If it's really so urgent, then somehow it goes to the first session, but let's pick one expert group where I would offer myself, if you're going to make that correspondence and that, for the next session, we'll come up with clear suggestions on whether what we think and if it's all understandable and so. So my constructive suggestion is that it goes, but somehow it goes for real, otherwise I'd be asking a dozen questions right now. I'd ask the experts to answer my questions, and probably your expert isn't there, if there is, then we can do that system, etc. So it's my constructive suggestion to try really to do it somehow so that maybe next session goes, but to realize this pre-work to sort of prepare it, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5950	I apologize to my colleague Majdandžić, the proposal must be concrete, I admit that I did not understand your proposal. This is the agenda, and please be more specific. Are you staying, are you suggesting that point 6 or that it stay on the agenda? And on point 6, we'll discuss it when it comes to the agenda, when we're at point 6. So, specifically and clearly, do you suggest that the point be omitted or not?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5952	My proposal is to leave out and get under this, so under these actions, prepare thoroughly for the next session. I think it's faster work than first reading, second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5953	It means it's coming off. Let's move on. Here you go. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5954	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, distinguished guests. I will draw attention to the ongoing violation of the business provisions by the College before I give a suggestion on the agenda. Namely, the College on the report, on the conclusions which did not receive the required majority when considering the form of the Commission, must be shown within three days about the harmonisation of the proposed solutions. You're mostly prolonging those terms. This is also the case with the Commission's conclusions on human rights, immigration, refugees and asylum, and other solutions. That's why I suggest that on this point you're showing yourself today to say that the conclusions haven't been made on your part and that we take them down more. That's exactly what I'm talking about on the agenda right now. I suggest that the agenda point number six. The Council of Ministers' request to consider the proposal for a law on the transfer of the regulator and the operator of the power system in Bosnia and Herzegovina will be considered in accordance with Article 104, for it is primarily not simple matter and requires quite reading, according to counterpart Majdandžić, seeing experts from that branch to suggest what we do. Then law number, agenda number five. This item of the agenda was to be considered today by an emergency procedure under Article 105, because we are in the process when this law was released on 31.10. is now 12.2., so 3 months and something already lost 2 million KM based on the bank's concession for international alignment in Basel. They would not talk about the content of the provisions of the law, i.e. amendments and additions. I'd just like to know what fate is, why we didn't get the information for the law we adopted at the House of Peoples didn't pass and to be informed that it didn't pass. And now we're piling up the law. We should have seemed informed about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5955	Thank you, colleague Malkić. One explanation. You said that a member, a part of the agenda, would be under regular number 6. – The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on Transfer of the Regulator and Operator of the Electricity System in Bosnia and Herzegovina should be considered in accordance with Article 104, not with Article 105, if I have followed you well, and point 5 should be considered. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the draft law on the purpose and use of the property that BiH receives under the Agreement on the Ex-SFRJ Sucession on an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. That's what you said. I can only interpret it that what you have said is your suggestion as an MP, Proposer, and that's the Council of Ministers. Whether the Council of Ministers will accept your position depends on them, but they are proposing and we plead their request. We can't change their request. They're the only ones who can change their request. Here you go. My colleague Ljubić asked for a word. Here, take it easy.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5956	Honorable MPs, Your Honor, the President, so that there is no confusion that we are not doing our job, that we do not agree. It is easy for us to say that we have failed within 3 12 days, if we will follow the views of this House of Representatives and see the relationship of political forces, we will sit down and tell us in advance we cannot agree. I realized that our goal is to try and rise above these sometimes to say narrowly party views to come up with a compromise solution that will help us to have a certain law. So if our guilt and here's exactly what I'm going to do to bring the law into line, that we have the laws, I accept the blame, but I don't accept the guilt simply to say that three days have passed we haven't been able to do it. You know we do customs duties. We've already met three times and we're going to try to agree, so there's no confusion. I only apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5957	Let's move on. He answered for the word. Here you go, Mr. Begović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5958	The Honorable Presidency, respected members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen. I suggest that item 7. be removed from the agenda, and it concerns the debate on the so-called so-called. Algerian group. We have discussed this matter at the Commission for Human Rights and have come to the conclusion that any debate is necessary until the final decision of the courts, or the House of Human Rights. Gentlemen, this is a question in our opinion so seriously, because it is also in the sovereignty of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If we were to conduct a discussion today based on conjecture, then we really wouldn't have achieved anything. They wouldn't have been any results satisfactory. Because we do not prejudge the matter to rush to ask the courts, or the House of Human Rights, to finally give up statements on this issue, to see what is in the Vienna Convention, whether the Vienna Convention has been violated by such a procedure so far related to the Algerian group. Whether the decisions of the courts are hurt or not are the decisions of the courts, because this will allow us to inform our public, even the world's public correctly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5959	Thank you. Mr. Željko Bilbija, Mr. Mijatović Mirko.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5960	Dear gentlemen, I'll just make a brief comment. I think it's part 6 or 6 of the agenda, and I'm not going to affect someone else's opinion, so let every democratic statement be made. Since I have had the opportunity to follow the draft of this law, I can give it full support, and everyone has their will, I can give it to Article 105. So I have no objections to it, and it is the will of the MPs whether, as anyone will accept, they will, according to Rule 105 and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, continue to behave. We have a lot of work to do today, and I must say that all of this has preceded a serious work by the committee of Parliament. So we didn't come to the session today. There are these issues in question and accelerated, but there are also reasons why I might suggest that MPs, before they hear, say, a representative of the Council of Ministers over item 6 of the agenda, and then come forward afterwards. I know it's a short time, but there's something I haven't seen that I can't say either positively or negatively, but I'm telling you, by chance, I'm familiar with it, and I can give it support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5961	Thanks, buddy Bilbi. Mr. Mijatović 13
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5962	Gentlemen Chairman, dear colleagues, I apologize, I would only have one brief intervention. I don't really want to open a discussion about languages or languages in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I would ask about their names and last names, etc., but I would really like to ask in addition to what my colleagues said before respecting the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure when delivering the material. Because you know don't make us look for translators. I would beg that we be consistent here. We simply respect the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It was nice to me from Mr. Introductors who gave us a wonderful lecture on the rule of law and for me he reminded me of my high school days and Professor Živko Gadž who taught me something like that in high school that he called home language. I like it if that's what's called in his country and the rule of law, I accept it immediately. But that we here respect the delivery of material according to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5963	Thank you, colleague Mijatović, I will issue an order to the Professional Service to see if the MPs have received material in the language that is their native language. We'll check out which material, where the error was made, the error of the technical nature, is not political. Who's answering for a word? Here you go, Mr. Šarganović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5964	Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the Presidency, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I believe that item 6 should be speeded up as one of the MPs has said. It's about significant funds for Bosnia and Herzegovina, $260m, tight deadlines, and we all swore here that we would try to help Bosnia and Herzegovina achieve what was offered to her and what was up to us to do. It's about... (Pauer) 3 and I think we can do our part of the job quality and that's the part about us doing it right. So the proposal is to keep point 6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5965	Thank you very much. I ask the MPs present to turn off their cell phones. We have this constant problem at the session. Don't ask your colleagues to come into a position where they have to interrupt the session in order for MPs and present to turn off their cell phones. You want me to take this? Are you looking for a word? Yeah. Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, the minister is looking for a word as a minister and as a lady has the advantage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5966	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Presidency, MPs, ladies and gentlemen, for the interventions in taking item 6 off the agenda or considering item 6 in a different procedure, I would like to brief you, to introduce you to the next. 14 The Council called on the Joint Institutions to adopt state laws on electricity and to implement it immediately by the First Declaration of the Peace Implementation Council of Madrid of 16 December 1998. Furthermore, in Brussels at the Peace Implementation Council Conference in May 2000, it was said that Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot afford a divided economic space and urged the authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina to implement constitutional provisions relating to the domestic market. In this context, in order to increase efficiency and economies of scale, it is necessary to ensure a coherent approach across Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory in many areas such as electricity. Furthermore, the political document on gas and electricity for Bosnia and Herzegovina and the corresponding amendment. In this respect, the international community has made a great deal of effort since 1999 to develop, or assist, the draft electricity law. These included Norwegian consultants and then United States consultants. I would just like to remind you that in August 1999, a certain working group for the drafting of the state law was discussed at the Council of Ministers' meeting, on 18.12.2001. On 4 January, a meeting of all participants was held with the intervention of consultants and other representatives of the international community on which the draft law was agreed. On January 5th, a meeting of me as minister, resolute minister for the area and prime minister of the two entities was held with representatives of the international community in which all issues were brought together and the law was adopted at the Council of Ministers' meeting on 17 January. I propose that this agenda item remain on the agenda today, to be considered according to the proposed procedure proposed by the Council of Ministers, because the deadlines for implementing this law for those who have read the law are very short. All procedures should be completed by 31 March, or 31 March. I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5967	Thank you very much. Who else is answering for a word? Mr. Banjac, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5968	Dear gentlemen. But my people who are here don't want to move forward to work. But we MPs want to read. There are also some of us who want to read to make a contribution and to know what it is. Well, if people can do it like this, then they can do it without us. Then I'm here to make a decision and pass on jurisdiction and end of story. The problem is, gentlemen, I want to read the material, and it's not a matter of whether I want to do the agenda or not. I'm happy if you're the one who made the deal. It's an absolute journey, but I want to read, I want to see, I want to know what I'm doing and I want to make my contribution. The problem is why you do it. Of the 16 points today that are on the agenda, six points we didn't get the agenda, we didn't get the materials. Well, gentlemen, I'm not obstructing anything, but I'm looking for a chance to read it. What a way it is in the congregation and if a session is to be moved in one day. You know that the laws of this morning some at 9:00 people were taking over here at the reception office. Well, please don't. And now it turns out someone needs to convince me how to do it. Well, I should know we should, too, but give us a chance to do it. If you do this more, believe me, at least I have the right to protect my integrity, I'll pick things up and go, and you're leading me away from being present. I'm gonna go read that. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5969	A colleague of the Cuplov has called before and you can have a colleague of the Cup.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5970	Dear Chairman, honourable members of the presidency, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I must join the debaters who have brought their differences here with the burying of materials during the session itself. It is an apparent problem carried out on several occasions in the work of this parliament. Of course, we keep saying that and nothing changes. The urgency shown in some legal projects is quite understandable to me, but you must understand that it must be possible for Members to read this material and possibly contribute to the quality of these materials by their active participation. I would like this session to be a turning point in the sense that this practice simply ends. As far as the current agenda is concerned, it means respecting everything that we are here, what the predecessors have put out here and following our work so far, I have to say that points 3 and 4 fall into the consolidation of the problem that I have raised, but they are also evident the fact that the Law on Defence and the Law on Demining is a long time interval in the assembly procedure. So that's the material that we've been reading, that we've been discussing and paraphrasing the life situation of mines and still killing people, you know. They're not waiting for the law to be passed, and I'm asking you nicely at this point to find the strength to tell these two reports of the commission that are in charge, to vote for them and to allow us to move from a dead end of these two legal projects. I would also not further elaborate, but I must point out that I agree with the predecessors who suggested that information about the events related to so-called. The Algerian group takes off the agenda, because it is the conclusion of the commission dealing with this problem. The problem is in the regular procedure. We'll wait for decisions and you have here as well as I delivered the conclusions of the Human Rights and Refugees Commission. I must point out that the lady minister who came out here made it quite clear to us why the level of urgency is extremely linked to the electricity transmission law, etc. I mention all of us, and I don't like myself being the honest Rules of Procedure that we're working on and the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina is on one occasion asking for his change, you know. That didn't do anything, because it was explained to us that who should make me a proposal you know as a doctor and other people who aren't professionals at it, we know what's wrong with that rulebook. Well, I guess the Joint Services should offer a solution that is acceptable. But here, I am still forced to read it, and I must say that according to Article 139, the Council of Ministers has one item of the agenda to request that it enter into consideration. So there's a business possibility of keeping this law because of an extraordinary degree of urgency. I would also agree with point 5. No, it is in point 5. Agreement on matters of succession, offered to me for completely unclear reasons under Article 104. He can go for 105, you know. For the simple reason that we are here to monitor the developments that are the subject of the debate over the means of succession, and we have discussed it ourselves. The amendments are so small that they are clear to all people who are not in Parliament what this proposal is about and it would be perfectly normal if it were proposed under Article 105, or we cannot bring some new elements about it. Here's how much it would be. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5971	Thanks a nice fellow I'm gonna Borić a little patience just so I can explain something and then you'll get your word. My colleague Majdandžić first came forward, he's the first in line, just let me say some facts for reasons to say the wrong impression. The biggest debate was on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on the transfer of regulators and operators of the electricity system to Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with Article 105. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Council of Ministers may ask for this and we are chairing it according to the Rules of Procedure to include it in the agenda. Your remarks that this has been done late, that MPs have come to a difficult position to read the material I fully understand, but while you are already presenting and talking about the problem, I must visit you to say that this was admitted to the Parliamentary Assembly on February 7th. It's not the college's fault. Second Agreement on the Development Credit of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association where the deadline for the implementation of the loan was 28 February adopted to the Parliamentary Assembly 8.2. Gentlemen, look at the first page of the agreement below. It says the date of October 19, 2001. It's not the College or the House of Representatives. So it's someone's other failures and you're absolutely right when you dispute that the materials arrive late, but then please look at the materials and direct the remarks at least for these points to the right address. Thank you very much. Here you go, fellow Majdandžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5972	The Honorable Presidency, esteemed guests, MPs and MPs. This is how I would accept that Article 105 will be discussed in order to allow here to be present experts who will answer the questions asked. But don't let this be another one. So there are experts who will see that some colleagues have worked on what's good, so we'll be able to do it anyway. Here's the np. Only one thing in Article 2(3) stands. the distribution shall indicate the transport of electricity on a medium voltage and high voltage distribution system with a view to delivering to the end-user. That doesn't stand. Distribution means transport and sales of electricity in medium voltage and low voltage, etc. So there's a lot of things that don't stand and don't be unprepared to just correct and do what we have to do. Therefore, my proposal is that it can go by doing so if this second part is secured, etc. There's more stuff. We suddenly call energy consumers a client. I guess someone translated it so he didn't know how to translate the consumer, but I don't know what language, the New Yorker who did, and then told the client. So listen, there's no such concept anywhere in any country in the literature. The consumer of electricity is a client. Let's not play games.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5973	Thank you very much. Who's answering for your word? Here you go. Ramiz Vilić 17
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5974	I will listen to this debate, and knowing how important and important this law is for this country, this one is a problem and close to me. I went out for this pay phone to ask just one question to the College and the Council of Ministers. Gentlemen, you are not to adopt this law. You did everything you could to get this off the agenda today. And here you wrote a clear and loud adoption of this bill enables reform of the energy system. We will fill one of the key points for EU entry and all that which is the sea. I agree, too, but I don't think it's necessary for you. So many gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5975	I'm sorry, sir, who did you send to the College or the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5976	And the College and the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5977	Okay. Here you go, fellow Borić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5978	I would make it clear in front of the SDA MPs' club here that we really came to this home to work today and we want to make a contribution to the realization of the agenda. The SDA MPs' club will also accept that item 7 is withdrawn from the agenda in principle if all other issues that have come to the table today and yesterday are also withdrawn from the agenda. I cannot accept the reasons here that I have heard today to withdraw this item of the agenda because the Human Rights Commission has been working. I don't think I'm making it right. The discomfort that every citizen has caused because of the events that took place in Bosnia and Herzegovina and which have shaken Bosnia and Herzegovina and which I, as a citizen, felt, cannot be a topic that can be delayed. We heard a little bit about the rule of law, and I would like to live in that country and not feel any discomfort, and I am simply ready to withdraw that item from the agenda if all the other issues that came to the agenda yesterday, and of course are treated at the next session when MPs read the information. I must further say that I addressed the Council of Ministers as president of the Club and the House of People 15 days ago and asked for information to be submitted to this House. I asked for it in writing, and I have to say, we got the truth today, and we got that information about these events. Since MPs, the honourable MPs did not have time to read, I accept that they cannot discuss it even though human rights, and then in Bosnia because of the authoritarian systems they have always been systematically trampled out for centuries, and today we still have to talk about it. It is not a topic to run from and it is not a topic to hide from behind the Human Rights Commission. I mean, I asked not prejudge what would be the conclusion of this home to just have the debate and that MPs be informed by the government by the Council of Ministers and that we get the right judgment on these events without any conclusions in advance. That's what I wanted and expected today, but here I can see that the Alliance gentlemen, at least I've heard, are not ready to discuss it. It seems that human rights and pushing them forward are looking for new times, looking for new people, maybe new parties. We'll see. Thank you very much. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5979	Thank you, fellow Borić. I have to give the information you gave. I'll just supplement it. This item of the agenda was put on the agenda yesterday at a session of the Extended College, because the Extended College is deciding. The point is that the SDA has applied temporarily for this item to be placed on the agenda. The college requested information from the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers provided timely information. However, the information was classified as 'confidential' and the other was not. Because on one piece of information, there was a "officer secret-confidential" sign, and then we couldn't send it to the Members of the United States on time. It was necessary to manifest the wider College to see what we would do in this case. And that's why the MPs were only able to get the material sent to us by the Council of Ministers, which has the designation "office secret - confidential". That's all the information, and that's why we put that point in the agenda as well as some other points. Can I help you with a word? Here you go. Mr. Baković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5980	Gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I will be very brief. Iretati just say a few words. I don't think we can allow two hours to talk about the agenda anymore and after even two hours that the agenda isn't again haired, it's not listed. So it's a terrible waste of time and it can't happen anymore. We would once have to stand on that point of view so as not to talk much about things anymore, not to comment on things and be a lar plural, but simply to solve problems in an efficient and constructive way. What I'm trying to say is that the agenda needs to be prepared so that we can have it fixed on the ground, definitely designed and that we have the materials. I'm also against it, and I agree with Mr. Banjac that it must not happen that we are getting a agenda here changed in view of that agenda that was sent to the field in 40 or 50% sense. This must not happen, because then we are unprepared and in both formal and real terms unprepared. Therefore, if the Ministers and the Council of Ministers have something of an urgent procedure of exception we can allow, but this is no exception, but it is only one established abnormal practice, even I think it is something indicative and that it must not be allowed anymore. I say these practices and with regard to sending agents material in various languages. Let's assume I'm a Hrvat, I'm getting Bosniak-language material, Serbian, Croatian, whatever, I don't know what kind of stuff. And it should be known once that things are standing and more about not having a discussion, because it's modified, it's a matter that's regulated and it just needs to be followed. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5981	Thank you very much. That draft agenda you got on the table today, gentlemen, the MPs were accepted yesterday by the club chiefs. If the club chiefs haven't informed you about it or if they haven't consulted with the MPs about what they can accept for the agenda, that's one thing. The second question is, it's a question of club relations, but I don't want us to discuss it today, it's not a proposal for this, but it's quite clear 19 that it's incomprehensible that the club chief accepts it, and tomorrow his MPs don't accept it. Thank you very much. Who else is answering for a word? Here you go, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5982	First, gentlemen, we were only discussing the agenda yesterday, part of the agenda at the College, which was added, not as we are discussing today. That's one thing. I'm asking you as colleagues to admit it to each other and the other I thought I wouldn't do it, and now I'm going to do it. I ask you members of the Kolegijum, go out and tell the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina how many days a week you work at your workplace?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5983	Thank you very much, Comrade Banjac. Who's answering for a word? Here you go, buddy brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5984	Dear colleagues, honored presidency, I've come out to make a suggestion to overcome this. A colleague here recently said that we lose every session for 2-3 hours, establishing the agenda, and we will always lose 2-3 hours if we get the agenda like we usually do already. So I suggest that we continue these points tomorrow, tomorrow and in the day after today's completion of what can be done tomorrow. We don't lose much. We'll lose more if we keep talking about how we can't work. It's my concrete suggestion that we postpone it for tomorrow and continue tomorrow if it's so urgent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5985	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? No, I don't. Some clubs asked for a break for 15 minutes. [[/pause 15 minutes.]] The break lasted a little longer than 15 minutes. We had the following suggestions. We had a proposal from Mr Filipović to remove the 7th item of the agenda from today's session – Information on events related to the so-called ". Algerian group. The proposal was supported by several MPs. Is Mr Filipović staying? He's staying. I ask the messengers to plead. Who is to propose Mr Filipović to take this item on the 7th agenda – Information on events related to the so-called The Algerian group takes off the agenda. Who's in favour of Mr Filipović's proposal? Who's against it? Did you make it? Thank you. Who's being held back? - One abstention. 20 Please result in a vote. We have to go to an entity vote. Please, who is from Republika Srpska for Mr Filipović's proposal? Thank you. Please, Members of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who is for Mr Filipović's proposal? Thank you. 39 MPs voted 31.7 against, abstention 1 MP. According to entities, the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 19, Republika Srpska 11 for. Mr Filipović's proposal was adopted to remove the item from the agenda. Let's move on. We have a proposal from Mr. Borić to dot – Information, if I understand correctly about interstate and international parliamentary visits and delegations, if this could be a formulation of the point to place the point as a special item of the agenda. They will Ponović the explanation that I have made at point 2 of MPs' questions and answers to Đedović's request to answer that question and that there is a possibility that we can consider it. We will consider this question today either through point 2 or through a special point if MPs decide. Comrade Boriću, do you have a suggestion regarding this proposal? Here's my colleague, Boriću.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5986	So I asked the question of spending. It's a minor question in this country. Small people ask the question of spending money. The SDA party is a big party and has big people. They deal with big questions. How to live in the free state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to live in the full capacity of human rights? If the issue could not be found in this House of Representatives, I am withdrawing this minor question of spending 270 thousand marks on a number of the parliament's narrow circle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5987	Thank you, colleague Borić, if I understand correctly, you withdrew your proposal and explained it. Ambassador Zoran Spasojević suggested that points 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. be removed from the agenda. Excuse me, three, four, five, six and seven. Isn't that right, Mr. Spasojević? Are you staying on your proposal? You're giving up 5 and 6. Thank you very much. Points 3, 4 and 7 remain. Seven were removed, yes, points 3 and 4 remain. There were other suggestions that, if I understood correctly, were in line with Mr. Spasojević's proposal. We can no longer vote on this, I propose that we make a statement on Mr Spasojević's proposal, and that will make it clear on some other proposals, if I understand correctly about today's agenda, because they were not precisely formulated. 21 So, Mr. Zoran Spasojević's proposal to remove the 3rd item of the agenda from today's session. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? - Three abstention MPs please score. Does he need an entity vote? Yeah. Voting 41 MPs, 5 against 33, abstention 3, does not require an entity vote. Mr. Spasojević's proposal did not get the necessary majority and remains that point. The point of Mr. Spasojević's proposal to remove item 4 of the agenda, if you have it in front of you, I don't think I should read the point. I don't need to. Okay. Thank you. Who's for Mr. Spasojević's proposal? Thank you. Who's against? Thank you. Who's restrained? No one is abstentioned, I apologize, two MPs have been detained. 41 MPs voted, 5 against 33, abstention 2. Mr. Spasojević's proposal was not accepted. Gentlemen, it seems to me we have had and a proposal to point 5 seems to me, if the MPs have not given up. Mr. Franjo, I beg your pardon, table 6 Mr. Franjo Majdandžić. Are you... You're giving up your proposal. I don't think there were any more suggestions to remove point 6. Did I miss something? Are there any MPs we haven't voted on, please? We have a point six. We need to make a statement here. Who asked for item 6? It was from Franjo Majdandžić. Please. That's what we're going to vote on anyway. Thank you very much. This proposal adopted the agenda. I realize that we have a session today on the next agenda. The adoption of the minutes from the 19th session of the House of Representatives, 2. Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Defence (second reading), 4. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the proposal for a demining law (first reading, i.e. now would be second), 22. 5. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on the purpose and use of the property that BiH receives under the Agreement on Ex-SFRJ Sucession Issues, 6. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Law on Transfer, Regulator and Power System Operator in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 7. Proposal for a State Service Act in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 8. Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 9. Proposal for a consumer protection law in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 10. Proposal for a law on concessions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 11. Proposal for a Law on Statistics of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 12. Proposal for a law on the use and protection of the sign of the Red Cross/Cross and the name of the Red Cross/Cross of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 13. Proposal for a conclusion on the grounds of consideration of issues in the field of foreign policy, 14. Giving consent to ratify a series of agreements, I hope I don't have to read that we don't waste time, they have written, 15. The appointment of a member of the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum. Gentlemen, I am asking you, in particular, that there have been proposals and votes on certain points of the agenda to make a statement on this draft agenda. Who's for the proposed agenda? Thank you. Who's against it? No Niko kao's restrained? Two MPs have been detained. I'd like the results of the vote. Of the 42 MPs present who voted for 40, against no one, abstentioned two MPs. I find that the proposed agenda has been adopted. Gentlemen, we're moving on to the first item of the agenda. Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 19th session of the House of Representatives you received. Any objections? If he doesn't, I'll put him to the vote. Who's for the adoption of the 19th session? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? I'd like the results of the vote. Once we get the electronic equipment, it'll all go faster. Of the 42 MPs present, 41 MPs voted for 41. A 19-session record was adopted. 23 We move to the second item of the agenda. Ad. 2. Parliamentary questions and answers (which have two parts) a) the state and quality of the parliamentary questions and (b) parliamentary questions and answers As you know, Members of Parliament at the 19th session of the House of Representatives of the House of Representatives, Mr Avdić suggested that a debate on parliamentary issues be included on the agenda with regard to the state and quality of the answers to questions. As is evident from a number of questions, it has not been answered even though it has been a long time since they were asked. In this regard, by order of the College of the Service, it carried out an inventory of the questions raised and the answers received and received. After reviewing the situation on January 24th, we delivered the Assembly, or the House, to the Council of Ministers, a review of issues not answered and a request was sent for these questions to be answered urgently, or to respond urgently with a note that we will have a debate at this session of the 20th session on the state and quality of the answer to parliamentary questions. From the said emergency to today, we have received answers from the Council of Ministers to the question of MPs Kovačević, Šarganović, Kamberović, Begović, Grabovac, Buturović, Bjelobrk, Malkić, Baković, Osmanović and Spasojević. The college answered the questions of Mr Đedović and Mr Majdandžić, who were asked at the 19th session of the House. The Council of Ministers also answered the questions of Mr Malkić and Mr Majdandžić, who asked at the 19th session. Here we have a review of a question that hasn't been answered yet. Gentlemen, you have received a list of questions and a designation of the names of the MPs who have asked a question that is not answered. That's what the state of today is. These were my opening remarks with a debate within this point under point 2a), state and quality of answer to parliamentary questions. Please, who's answering for the word? Mr. Boro Bjelobrk, then Mr. Šarganović, Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5988	First of all, I ask that it be recorded that I have not received answers to the questions of 17 May from the competent institutions that I have specified for the events in Trebinj and Banja Luka. And I don't see any reason for the congregation services to put an ad act on it. Yeah, but when I get an answer. Second. I also requested a report from four Republika Srpska executives since their visit to Moscow. I only got an answer from the president of Republika Srpska. You can't even put an ad act on that question until I get the other three. And my second 24 contributions to the debate, I ask the representatives of the Council of Ministers to announce the collection reasons why such a quota of delay is contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5989	Thank you, Mr. Bjelobrk. Mr. Šarganović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5990	Under a) State and quality of response. First of all, I would like to thank you for those answers that I received from professional and quality and offer me what I asked to learn, and this is about the answer to the question of 30.11.2001 on the construction of the Izačić border crossing, and I would like to ask that, in accordance with this answer, the determined determination and endurance of the Council of Ministers in order to meet the deadlines for the construction of the Izačić border crossing in that response, which is below 1. - the Commission's proposal by the end of January 2002, the World Bank's consent in February, in March to sign a contract with the performer and in April to start work. So I am satisfied with both the professional and the quality and the reasons for these answers. As for the question under b), the first question is whether the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina will insist on the implementation of the decision to include the Izacic border crossing as a crossing for all types of cargo, including oil and oil derivatives? The reason - is the correct decision of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to include the Izačić border crossing in a group of crossings for all types of cargo and oil derivatives, because there is a real basis, and especially road road corridors that do not endanger the Plitvice Lakes national park, because it does not have to be supplied through Plitvice Lakes and crossing the Izačić border crossing. There are huge terminals in Zadar, shorter relations and the Izačić border crossing can be used in quality. I have here analysed this correct decision of the Council of Ministers and I have made a map of travel corridors and roads in several directions and I would like to be answered to this question whether, therefore, this is a map of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and Slovenia, so I think that decision is correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5991	Mr. Šarganović, maybe you can tell us without opening a map, because there's little problem here opening a map.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5992	Let's not, it's a little bigger because Bosnia and Herzegovina, Slovenia and Croatia, is a bigger map. Here are the corridors that don't surround the Plitvice Lakes national parks. If the port of Zadar is used where INA has huge capacities. So the tanker doesn't have to go to Rijeka at all. We'll roll the map later.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5993	Yeah, you're done with the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5994	I didn't wait. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5995	I'm just asking you to be clear if you're asking a question. Wait a minute, please, will you ask a question, just a little protocol to the Rules of Procedure, do you ask the question verbally or in writing?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5996	It's written. I've got it in writing. But it's not one thing, I've got more.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5997	All right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5998	Wait a minute. I also have a kilometre calculated. I mean, one of my fellow MPs told me that we should prepare for the assembly, so that's what we do normally. Here's the corridor. Because the additional explanation is this – there would be huge consequences for the economy of the UN-San canton both economically and politically if this border crossing had not been incorporated into crossing points for all species... Second question - Will the Council of Ministers in co-operation with the Croatian government allow a faster and smooth transition to tourist, tourists during the tourist season as transit tourists using Bosnia and Herzegovina for faster arrival to the Adriatic Sea, which would be an incentive to develop tourism in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Third – When will the border crossing Užlebić be put into operation? Four – What and what status does the refugee centre in Bosnia Petrovac have? Whose administration is it under? How does he finance himself? What authorities and levels of government are responsible for this center and when will this centre be abolished and removed? There's a very simple explanation. He is at the very inter-entity line and serves for certain activities that are not mentioned at the very least with the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the stay of foreigners in Bosnia and Herzegovina?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u5999	Thank you. Give it to the Secretary of the House. Does the minister, Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, want to respond immediately? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6000	Thank you. I will answer the first question under the foreign trade ministry's jurisdiction. First, I'd like to thank the MP for the rich factography of the map. The foreign trade ministry, of course, had all the documentation. I would just like to tell you briefly, the Council of Ministers will insist on its decision to ensure, in line with the protection of interest, economic interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina and certain regions within Bosnia and Herzegovina, first and foremost, that economic interests are provided adequately by providing strategic oil energy to road corridors. The issue of corridors and corridor approaches to which the neighbouring Republic of Croatia has the full right to define them, but border crossings and the possibility of oil flows within Bosnia and Herzegovina are the right sovereignly Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this was also the subject of previous talks with neighbouring Republic of Croatia, perhaps open issues. I hope that the agreement will be reached very soon and you will be notified of it. The foreign trade ministry will insist on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6001	Thank you very much. Mr. Gligorić. So we've already gone to b. It's the same point, Mr. Gligorić, Mr. Amidžić, so Mr. Bilbija.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6002	Ladies and gentlemen, while I appreciate your time, I'm using the MP's ability to ask a parliamentary question means in writing and to get a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6003	Thank Mr Gligorić for his correct and rational approach. Mr. Amidžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6004	Gentlemen chairman, fellow MPs, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers. My parliamentary question addressed to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers, and I am looking for the answer in writing, together with a particular correspondence on the subject. The question is: Why is the talks of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers' representatives with the Valdo of the Republic of Croatia on oil corridors and certain crossings for oil imports in proposals in particular of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina forgets the border crossing of the Gunja-Brcko District of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Brcko District as a joint project of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international community and the signatories of the Peace Agreement for Bosnia and Herzegovina. So you would also ask a representative of the Council of Ministers not to open this debate today because it would continue to pursue a similar issue, but I would like to give an explanation and I will also refer it to this parliamentary issue. 1. I am not entering into the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia's relations are politicised by the government of the Republic of Croatia, but also by the countermeasures of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Ministry of Foreign Trade. 2. I would like to point to the existence and communication and correspondence in the triangle of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Mayor of Brcko District of Mr Siniša Kisić and the Ministerial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 3. I would like to highlight the importance of Brcko District for the international position and reintegration of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the restoration and material development of these areas and countries as a whole. 4. I would like to ask whether, in this case, the Brcko District, as in some examples earlier, should have some form of foreign policy and international co-operation outside of the 27 institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina with a view to some of the communications that have been established on the subject or remain. 5. I would like to point out my personal opinion, but also the opinion of the Brcko District residents that they are dominant in the entire oil affair in terms of economic interests and logic. I'm not going to identify the localities on which side it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6005	Thank you very much. Mr. Željko Bilibija.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6006	Dear gentlemen, since there is also a member of the Bureau and most of the Council of Ministers, I have one brief question, and the explanation will be a little broader. The question is - at what stage is the Agreement on the Transport of Goods and Passengers between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia? At one of the last sessions, we have verified one of these agreements with Švajcarska, and I really don't mind, because if I were against it, I would support it. But on the other hand, if there's any data on what we can do in Switzerland in the first place, even though we're importing something into what it costs. I, most MPs know I live in Gradisca in order to get to Belgrade because of the lack of this agreement, must travel almost three times worse than the Occupied Belgrade highway has about 13 km. Now we know what it produces, how much bigger the damage on the vehicles, how much more fuel is spent, so let me say how much bigger and environmental pollution is. When I was in the U.S., I saw that the price of tomatoes was $15, and the price of peppers was $15, so this was kind of weird, since last year, for example, 18 kg of tomatoes were 80 fenings, and here's today 20 kg of potatoes are from 2 marks to 2.80. So I talked to people if there was any possibility of economic co-operation. And you know what they told me there is, but what you produce can't be for any breakfast in any New York building. And our solution to Bosnia and Herzegovina is the first unification with the countries of Southeast Europe. So only if we could place ourselves on the international market as such could we achieve something. We are fooling ourselves so quickly that we can enter the EU and Bosnia and Herzegovina and neighbouring countries until we can first implement a kind of unification on the South East European plan and only then will we be able to compete on some of the world's markets. We are also considering a series of laws and agreements and negotiations and the rest, and we know what the situation is in the economy, what the situation is with our exports to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we import everything and everything that is not healthy. Here we hear there's a few days of scrap metal in some food and I don't know what it's all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6007	Thank you. Mrs. Bahrija Osmanović. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6008	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow MPs and others. The review of parliamentary questions that have not been answered gives the names of Members and the questions that have been asked. This review does not include my name as an MP, nor the questions I have asked, and it is two parliamentary questions to which I have requested an oral and written answer. Due to the urgency of the last question I have asked for an urgent written answer, and why I am asking enough to say that there are still big problems about pension payments, and at the same time a large number of workers are working on black and with employers within the country and employers who serve our country, which are foreign partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6009	Thank you. Please send these questions in writing to the Secretary of the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6010	Questions were delivered, but I didn't get an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6011	So you can get back to us if they're possibly lost. Okay. Let's move on, who's answering for the word? Here you go, buddy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6012	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, dear guests, I welcome you all. For me, this item of the agenda is very important, especially this one under a) state and quality of answer to parliamentary questions. I take parliamentary issues as a warning to the rest ministers and the Council of Ministers to work within their mandate and remind them of something that is not working, it does not work. However, if I were to refer to those questions that I have asked since, in fact, since Parliament exists in this composition, in which I have asked only two questions. Both questions refer to Annex VII, or its implementation, and I have received one answer, and I have not yet received an answer to the other. I think these are crucial questions, and maybe, I don't know what the Council of Ministers has done to not answer this other question because it's complicated enough, and I expected them to say that some things can't be connected there and that we know practically what we're at. For this reason, and this is also my briefer question whether it is time for the Council of Ministers and the RES to report on their work as soon as possible to discuss this report and, of course, point out everything that could be done and should be done, and so far has not yet been done. I think it's a burning problem, and there are as many as you want and we all know it. I think the burning problem is the implementation of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement and that there is very little movement, at least what I am following and what I know. That, we should focus more seriously on this problem and start solving this very complex issue once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6013	Thank you very much, Mr. Kulenović. Mr. Buturović. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6014	My colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the College, members of the Bureau, representatives of international organisations, because it is very important that they hear this through the meetings of information that I see very little. I'm going to have one question in fact after you cut the time short. I'll just deliver it in writing, and this is not a question, because I've asked twice. I got some answers that I could be happy with, and if I smelled something and smelled something, it was already a situation. This is the cry of 100,000 people from the Bosnian part of the HN Canton for an unreasonable decision by the Federal Government, in my opinion completely illogical and illegal since 15 January where there has been a suspension of the health funds in the HN Canton, the formation of new ones in Sarajevo and the withdrawal of original funds from the canton, which is why I have to say to the majority Bosniak part of the citizens in a very difficult situation, in fact that people's lives are at stake, and the functioning of health institutions is at stake. Please. We feel here as citizens not of the second order, but of the 15th order. I'm talking about human rights, and it's not being implemented in this space. We look like some island in a lost sea that's floating and I don't know where it's gonna land. I would really ask, ask as a man, because apparently the Federal Government cannot be discussed on this matter, because all executive and legislative authorities in the HN Canton were brought before the act of morality, pressure. You really don't want to talk. So he would turn to the Council of Ministers to do something urgently in this regard and to do as the Insect showed us before correctly and properly and impartially and to just implement legality and nothing more. I'd ask and I'll set it up. This isn't a question, it's not a question. I've circled the emergency, the emergency, because the situation is very dramatic. Don't leave us. That's it. And because of the means of information, I'm taking the opportunity to say that it's very difficult to get to federal television with certain information, and this time I'm using it to pay a little attention, not a little bit, but a lot of attention to these things. We can't come and give fair information. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6015	How's it going for us then? I thank the honourable representative, Mr Buturović. The word has a distinguished representative Mr. Miro Grabovac Titan.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6016	Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, given that we have brought together point 1 (a) and (b), I will make two remarks. I first one remark on the list that we received to the soul today on the bench where they are said to have received, who has received, or who has not yet received answers on that list. There's no me, and I don't think it's a well-done record with the fact that there's another part of the question I asked, and I didn't get an answer. So the first remark to that part. The second observation to the answers, in particular, that my concerns were mostly combined with the Council of Ministers and the Government of the Federation. And the answers from the Council of Ministers when it comes to this part that is related to aluminum, I am not satisfied with them because it speaks in general about something that we need to advocate and we will advocate both promotions and everything else that is related to this promotion of Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy. However, nothing concrete has been answered to me by what has been done. And of course it's half in that part that 30 is not a summed response to the Federation government which is, because this question makes up one whole, so it couldn't even be sent in half with the fact that this part was said to be sent later. The second part, which I also received, is related to issues, and is related to the agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of Germany, which refers to a detachment of work permits approved by the 95-year contract. Also that part didn't satisfy me completely. Of course, I thank the Council of Ministers for that answer, and I will use this opportunity to supplement the meaning of the same question, just to supplement this question of yours so that I can make a mosaic of what this is all about, in particular, that it has tried to avoid here, allegedly without information. In addition to the questions, please provide me with a list of all companies that have received work permits from the signing of the agreement by the end of 2001, their headquarters, name and owner and the individual number of licences for each company. So that part is being complemented by my question about the question I asked at the 16th session of the 20th of November 2001. And of course when these points are joined I will set up, although I am sorry that not all members of the Presidency are here, and it refers to the Croatian member of the Presidency and the Federation Ministry of Defence. We are witnessing that about the termination of the payments of around 750 members of the HVO who have been issued pension solutions based on the decision of the civilian commander, and given the merits of these people in the defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the security and economic aspect of society, my question under 1. Is there a decision on the basis of which the solutions have been issued, and if there is a time to issue a retirement solution issued by the Ministry of Defence of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with the decision of the civilian commander, I ask that a copy be delivered to me together with the answer to this question. 2. Whether these retirement solutions have been issued in accordance with the applicable laws in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, whether they are registered in the Federal Defence Ministry. 3. What solution does a civilian commander and the Federal Department of Defense offer to a group like this? And my second question concerns the Ministry of Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum and the Ministry of Defence of the Homeland War of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since an agreement has been signed between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministerial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina and concerns the donation of construction material to members of the HVO in order to make this donation as fair as possible, and given the distribution of so far, my question is: - Do they share the same status as the developed defenders who do not have a problem with housing or whose pre-war housing units are not restored with the military disabled, the families of the murdered HVO defenders? Who adopts the criteria for the award of these donations, and which body determines the priorities of the assignment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6017	I thank the honourable representative, Mr Miri Grabovac Titan, and the word has been respected by Mr Mirko Mijatović. Anyone else want to ask a question?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6018	MP question: - What about the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia signed in December 2001 on the two-way return of refugees and why has the Protocol on the Implementation of the Agreement never been signed?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6019	I thank the esteemed representative, Mr. Mijatović. The word has an esteemed representative, Mr. Boro Bjelobrk. Anyone else want to ask a question?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6020	...under a) and b), and he turned out to be a very decent fellow chairman. Okay. First, my new parliamentary question reads: – I ask the Council of Ministers to immediately submit a plan of implementation with carriers and deadlines for the implementation of 91 conditions of the Council of Europe for the accession of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I propose that this plan be considered previously by the Foreign Affairs Commission and propose conclusions to the Parliamentary Assembly. I am now going back to that question from the beginning – I am asking for a public statement from the Council of Ministers on this amount of outstanding questions, especially because at least by deadlines, they are contrary to the existing Parliamentary Assembly Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6021	I would like to thank Mr. Bora Bjelobrk, the esteemed representative. The word has a respected representative, deputy chairman, Mr Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6022	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, dear guests, I would like to update a few questions about point (a) and point (b). It would be good if MPs' questions and answers in this parliament were treated objectively in a way they deserve, and that means answering parliamentary questions from the quality, scope and urgency of the response, respecting simple procedures and respecting the views of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. What I mean. It would therefore be necessary to level the quality of the answer and allow for the full level of urgency of the response to the parliamentary questions. I therefore suggest to the Council of Ministers from this House that this same item of the agenda as the House of Representatives, also put it on the Council of Ministers and that we respond when we answer these 37 lags of 32 questions and that we also discuss the entry of quality and method and methodology for answering parliamentary questions. That'd be good. It means the Council of Ministers is considering it. The second thing you would suggest is that the final stage is to define the course of Corridor Vc. Within the Council of Ministers, there is also a forum for this route of Corridor Vc, with the Ministry of Treasury co-ordinated by this project, i.e. the Minister of Treasury Mr Domazet. I propose, given that this is of strategic importance for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that the project experience public verification and criticism of such a single project before the final design and approval of the route. Which means here you are reading the press today and in Liberation and other newspapers is simply asking questions about how a region like... Bosnia and Herzegovina's largest canton of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina has gravitated more than 650 thousand people, an industrial foothold in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole, and in this context it is absolutely unimaginable that this corridor only tangs the canton. Which means I'm looking for an urgent simple critical verification of these reflections, meaning the course of Corridor Vc which is at the final stage. And it would be good to consult with the cantons that this corridor is going through and get a general consensus around that route. It's not just a scientific-technical, economical issue, and it's a part of the political issue of this route through the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. These are my two reflections on parliamentary questions and answers, and I think it would be really appropriate to prefer this home. Believe where and where it benefits more from dialogue with the Council of Ministers, and less about co-operation, or communication based on written answers. Written answers should also be heard by MPs, or they get that, but objectively I feel that we read little of these answers to parliamentary questions. This dialogue with the Council of Ministers means I prefer the oral dialogue at the heart of this written so that we can simply participate in our own-handed dialogue with the Council of Ministers and the responses given directly at the session itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6023	I would like to thank Mr. Avdić's distinguished representative. Since no one wants to ask the question anymore, I'll conclude. I give my word to the Council of Ministers to Mrs Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6024	It is not the Ministry of Foreign Trade's portfolio, but it has no colleagues from Lagumdžija on behalf of the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers has put a constant agenda point of response to parliamentary, or delegate issues, and we already have these in the last three weeks as a permanent item of the agenda and we will have until further notice. What I would like to answer to is Mr boriti Bjelobrk and the other MPs who have been denied the answers to parliamentary questions that most of the issues are not the responsibility of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers, so we have also reached a conclusion at the meeting of the Council of Ministers to direct the relevant institutions to entity governments, etc. questions to answer, so that you get a part of the answer as was given by the Titan MP to the questions of the aluminium combination, but I suppose he, like the other MPs of this house, knows that the aluminum combination is not the direct jurisdiction of the 33 Council of Ministers except for the involvement to attract foreign investments relating to all aluminium combinations from Mostar. That's fine. But your question isn't partial, it's completely addressed to a resor, or competent institution. And when we get the answer, they'll be forwarded to you. There is so much delay in the answers, not the Council of Ministers' guilt, I don't know if it's someone's fault, but simply the technique of the questions asked requires more institutions to round up the complete answer. And I think it's precisely because of this practice that the parliamentary issues will be found constantly on the agenda of the Council of Ministers soon to have a different situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6025	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? If we don't realize this point is over. Gentlemen, we are moving on to the next item of the agenda. Ad. 3. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Proposal of the Law on Defence That Members of Parliaments briefly remind you that the law did not receive the necessary entity majority when it was in the second reading. Afterwards, he worked as the Commission to the Rules of Procedure of the College. We started right away, so within three days we're looking for a solution, but let's find a solution. That's what my colleague Ljubić was talking about, and I totally agree with that, and I wouldn't repeat it. So it was a law that had already passed the second reading, but there was no decision. You've received a report from the College. Do you gentlemen consider that if you do not have a draft law on the defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina on behalf of the College, you would like to see the report and compare it with the law on defence. Is that necessary? Whether you can manage on the basis of the report, or whether you have passed a law on defence with you. If there's a need, here I'll go on behalf of the College to explain, to compare with the law. There isn't. Thank you very much. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I am putting in a report on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for a law on the defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina to vote. So who's for the College Report as the Commission? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's being held back? Does he need an entity vote? Of the 35 MPs present and voting for 31, abstentioned 4. There's no need for an entity vote. It's over. I'm guessing it's the report. Who's against the entity. I'm asking the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina who's against the report? - There's no one. 34 Please, Republika Srpska, who is from Republika Srpska against the Report?—I find no one. So the report was adopted, because here if it hadn't been adopted, it would have taken 1/3 against, or 2/3 against. Yes, thank you, Secretary. I find that the report has been adopted. Please, since the House of Peoples has adopted the Law on Defence, we have information that there are differences in the text, that we will immediately form a Coordination Commission so that we do not waste time until the next session. I would like to propose three members of the Commission who will work together with the Commission from the College of the House of Peoples. We must have a national structure represented. Here's a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6026	Since the College has agreed on the text, I will be free to make three members of the College a committee to bring the text into line with the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6027	Thank you. Any other suggestions? Any other suggestions? There isn't. Please put Mr. Bilbija's proposal to the vote. Who's in order not to repeat names are famous characters? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you. I find that a coordination committee has been elected in 38. - 38. Thank you on behalf of all three members of the College for the great trust, on behalf of my colleagues Avdić, Ljubić and on my personal behalf. We're moving on to the next item of the Ad agenda. 4. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for a demining law has given you the College's report not to read. It's about the fact that in the first reading, the law didn't get an entity majority. The College agreed that the law could go to another reading. In the second reading, we have an amendment phase. We have gentlemen before us a demining law. Who's answering for a word? This is a second reading so there won't be any misunderstandings. Can I help you with a word? Niko. No Niko answered for the word. Did I miss anyone, please? I didn't. I saw well as my colleague Avdić said. I'm closing the debate. 35 I am putting on the vote of the Proposal for a Law on Demining in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is a proposal submitted by the Council of Ministers to visit MPs. I ask the MPs to plead. Who's in? This is a second reading of the Proposed Demining Law in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. Who's against it? No one seems to me. Who's being held back? Niko. Unanimity. One MP didn't vote, please. So, Spasojević abstention. Here I will write here for you – restrained. Okay. My fellow thank you, thank you, fellow Spasojević, for helping us to keep our eyes open. So there were 39 present and a vote of 39 MPs, 38, abstention one. I find that the proposal for a bill on demining was adopted in the second reading and there is no need for entity voting, there is no need for harmonisation, as it adopted the same proposal in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ad. 5. A proposal for a law on the purpose and use of the property that BiH receives under the Agreement on Ex-SFRJ Sucession Issues to visit MPs this is the second time the same story. We already passed that law once, but it wasn't adopted in the House of Peoples. According to the Rules of Procedure, it is considered that the law has not been adopted and a complete procedure must be renewed. We, gentlemen, have received the 1.2nd subject of the proposal for a law on the purpose and use of the property that BiH receives under the Agreement on Ex-SFRJ Sucession Issues. I remind you that in this proposal of the Council of Ministers, there is a proposal for this law to be considered by an urgent procedure, and in accordance with the provisions of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. What we need to do is to say today whether or not we accept the Council of Ministers' proposal to do so in accordance with Article 104. If we accept going according to Article 104, we do not discuss this law at the session today. Only deadlines in the commission phases are cut in half, if we do not accept the Council of Ministers' proposal, then the law goes according to regular procedure. In every variant, we are not discussing the law today, and therefore that remark that you have received or have not received material does not apply to this point. Here you go. Who answers the word, gentlemen? If no one, I call upon the motionor, which is the Council of Ministers to explain the urgent request. Here you go, Mrs. Kojić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6028	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished members of the Presidency, respected members of Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers. I want to remind you of the reasons that justify the need to consider the motions of this law by an urgent procedure. The funds of the concession granted to Bosnia and Herzegovina under the Agreement on Sucession Issues amounting to around 281,513,739,92 KM would be used for the following purposes: 36 - Acceleration of the economic development of Bosnia and Herzegovina through the direction of the grant funds for development at the level of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and entity, - the consolidation of the Budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and international commitments, - the consolidation of the Budget of entities for the settlement of a certain amount of previously unsettled pension and disability obligations and other purposes that occurred until 31.12.2000. In light of the above reasons, the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina proposes to consider and adopt laws on the purpose and use of the assets that Bosnia and Herzegovina receives under the Agreement on the matters of succession under emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6029	Thank you very much. I apologize for having to leave the post for the consultation. Are any of the MPs answering for a word? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. I would like to ask the MPs to make it clear whether we accept the Council of Ministers' proposal that the proposal for a law on the purpose and use of the assets that Bosnia and Herzegovina receives under the Agreement on the matters of succession of the former SFRY is subject to the provisions of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, which is a brief procedure, and with amendments. So the commission phase and the amendment if there are. Please, who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? No Niko seems to me. Who's being held back? Niko. Of the 35 MPs present, it voted 35 in favour. I find that the Council of Ministers' proposal to follow Article 104 has been accepted. Gentlemen, we're moving on to the next point. Ad. Six. The request of the Council of Ministers shall be made in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure discusses the proposal for a law on transmission, regulator and operator of the Bosnia and Herzegovina electricity system This legislative proposal was adopted in Parliament on 7 February. You heard my criticism on the address of the Council of Ministers. I hope he doesn't get too mad. I would like to ask the MPs to know the reasons for this urgency. Please, Minister Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6030	I thank the chairman. When you're considering it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6031	Allow me one intervention, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. I ask the MPs to concentrate a little on their work and the remark is, I want to thank Mr. Radić for his present presence on behalf of the House of Representatives. Thank you. My remarks to the MPs. Please be quiet, and colleague Hadžiahmetović is otherwise quiet in nature, but she'll have to yell now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6032	Thank you. I have given a part and a reason to consider the agenda, and I hope there are a lot of reasons to understand the urgency of the adoption of this electricity law. I just want to visit you to see that the whole procedure has been going on since December 1998, through May 2000, in August 1999, when, in the previous Council of Ministers' meeting, a working group has been set up to draft this law and these accelerated procedures that have been made through the Ministry of Foreign Trade in the last few months. The law on electricity, I apologize, the law on transmission, regulator and operator of the Bosnia and Herzegovina electricity system has been delivered to you under the procedure of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives with intervention to be considered under Article 105, and the adoption of this law will allow for the reform of the electricity system in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will meet one of the key conditions for Bosnia and Herzegovina's entry into the EU. The explanation of the details of this law I will give later, I would just like to visit that within certain provisions of this law are very strict dates. On 31 March 2002, until such time as the approval and monitoring of the plan drawn up by the ZECT, which must be formed before that, i.e. transformed into an independent system of operators in accordance with the provisions of this law. Then in Article 7 of this Act, I apologize in Article 5, which states that no later than 31 March 2002, a single independent system of operators will be established. Then, the ZECT will decide to propose a plan to the regulatory commission for its transformation by 31 March 2002 and the procedure for selecting members of the regulatory commission, which is meant to be completed by 31 March 2002. This is also the reason why procedure 105, i.e. the request of the Council of Ministers for this law to be considered under procedure 105. In addition, the Council of Ministers also made sure that with all the competent institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the two entity governments, above all, were forced to compromise the provisions of this law, that is, the bill before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6033	Thank you, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. We demand Article 105 means that if a request by the Council of Ministers is accepted, we will continue the debate on the law immediately at the session. According to article 105, there are no amendments. So either accept or refuse, or don't accept. And if a request of the Council of Ministers was not accepted, then the law would go according to regular procedure and not be discussed today. So much so there wouldn't be any misunderstandings. I'm opening a debate. Can I help you with a word? Here you go, Mr. Majdandžić. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6034	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, MPs, esteemed guests, I would like to ask, I have some questions. If I'm going to set it up, then give it an answer, or I'm going to set it up like this just to satisfy some formalities, I don't know how it's supposed to go. I'm willing to make my contribution as much as I can to get a better law, but I don't know. First, he would ask the promoter if there are experts who are able to give arguments and others, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6035	The question was addressed to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6036	To the Council of Ministers because they have experts here to give interpretations, etc. Not that I'm just saying something to myself in vain, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6037	Can I just ask if this expert relates to the area of economics or electricity?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6038	Electricity, professional issues, etc. Electro-energy.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6039	Here you are, gentlemen, from the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6040	He has a member of Bjelobrk who is Deputy Director General of Elektroprivreda. And there is a colleague, Mijatović, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6041	Okay. So we agree that you can ask questions and that it will give a quality answer. Thank you. Well, then I'd go for a while.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6042	Please do not enter the word of Ambassador Majdandžić. I'll interrupt the session. Here's your colleague Majdandžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6043	I answered, and I have the right to present
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6044	You do, they'll be provided. Here you go. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6045	This is the second paragraph of Article 1 – the objective of this law is to create conditions for unlimited and free trade and continuity of electricity supply according to a defined standard, quality for the benefit of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't think that stands. If we're going to talk about the quality of electricity it's not just continuous, it means what reliability is, security with all aspects that define the quality of electricity. It may be better to apply the items that they have given in the explanation and it stands like this – this law achieves the creation of a single market in the territory of the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the abolition of the monopoly, the establishment of a regulatory environment and an organisational organisation through equal access to the domestic and foreign electricity markets and the creation of preconditions for foreign investment. I think it's more appropriate and it's the part that we want to have. Keep going. The third indent of Article 2 states - distribution marks the transport of electricity on a medium voltage and high voltage distribution system with the aim of delivering it to the end-user. So according to this distribution, it doesn't supply electricity to consumers with low voltage, which is to say the main subject of work and the existence of distribution. It's probably a lapus, so maybe it's thought like this - distribution means transporting electricity on a medium voltage and low voltage distribution system, etc. Keep going. Under Article 2 tenth indent stands – supply marks delivery or sale of electricity to customers. It was probably thought to be for consumers. in technical regulations and standards, etc. Everywhere we still have the only notion, only if we don't have some coin new, linguistically what is the consumer of electricity, what is the supplier, or supplier of electricity, etc. There are professional, delivery, consumer, etc. that relationship. Further in Article 3(3), the last indent stands – policymaking under this law will be carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations (the Ministry). It's possible it's right, and here we've called on the Ministry of Energy and Mining to propose, participate, etc. We have here in other members, so now I think there are some collations, whether it is thought that this ministry will now take over the ministries of current energy and mining, or whether it will be in the custody of this ministry alone. Maybe it's more natural that what is a professional ministry. It further states, here in point 4.2 of the indent and consumer protection providing fair and equal treatment of high-quality services, competition and prevention of anti-competitive activities. It doesn't mean anything. Consumer protection is defined by the consumer to obtain quality electricity, which means that normally they are precisely defined as the quality of electricity. This means continuous delivery after the entry from the frequency, pinballs, electrical shocks and second and third, more Harmonic etc. Therefore, it is not more appropriate to provide consumers with quality electricity under the relevant standards. If we accept GM 50 standards adopted by Europe and other Central European countries, and we're probably around here somewhere, then we'll apply those standards whether they are. And what's standing here is like this. If I were a consumer, I'd be wondering what it is now, what it means, etc. 40 It further stands in point k. creating and maintaining competitive markets when it is feasible both to prevent and punish greedy, or anti-competitive behaviour. I'd ask the lawyers to help me out here, I feel like it's all something so hilly. Maintaining a competitive market like when it is feasible. So if he can, he can't. Prevention and punishment of greedy, or anticompetitive behaviour. It's nothing legally clear to me, I'd be begging the lawyers to get involved really. But this is what my predecessors said. We bring ourselves before the final act that we have to be here, is this big a head so that we can interpret all this together. I've been trying, trying, there's a million more things to go through that don't work out, because we're doing the right thing. Further in, there is now – the institution is established as a commission by entity representatives and which will be extra professional, but later in the article says that the institution has legal personality status. Now I don't understand, on the one hand we speak as a commission, on the other hand we speak as an institution with legal status. So it's going to be some kind of institute, some kind of expert, some kind of group that's going to register, that's going to have legal ingenuity. What's the right thing to do? Is each other. In my opinion, it's not a commission that, I don't know if I'm wrong, you tell me who's got legal status now and he's got one. Otherwise, Derk has every possible ingenuity. Anything that applies here to the quality of electricity, we gave it to this institution that's called... is it. If so, it should be clarified and seen what is really legal now, whether it is some kind of institution, a legal person who will have experts, experts and who will prescribe, who will work, who will oversee, who will handle all possible things, or what is it like here a committee of three members from which two from the Federation, one from Republika Srpska, are. That's not clear to me. It's still standing. I don't want much, I'm about to end. It is further stated in point 6.3 – the transmission network safety and health protection. He says so – acting in the licensing process as legal persons and individuals who have the right to install cables and their right to use them respect the regulations relating to the security zone. A fellow expert in the profession would beg what that means now to set up cables, what cables. Cables are a concept that can be underground. Waters are again a concept that can be superior. Is that supposed to be water or just cables? How do we define professional concepts, cables, waterways, etc. in law? Or that's it, you understand me. That has to be explained. You may have thought well, but you didn't say well. Some cables, fittings, cables or cables as we say Croats are mostly thought of underground installations, underground lines. Well, it can be high ground, so let's say ground-based cables. I don't know what that is. Furthermore, the electrical transmission facility will be designed, built and used in such a way that their effects of use will not endanger the health of the population, i.e. the area, which will apply to the least possible extent the natural environment and the value of singing. That's a lot, that's a lot of good words, but you have to say it more specifically. More specifically, it is said whether it will be made in accordance with environmental standards, that there will be no pollution of any of these possible environmental standards. And in environmental law on the protection and improvement of the environment there are defined what aspects are. Therefore, it should now be said whether it will be in line with this projected quality that environmental pollution is not done in these possible aspects. It's whether it's physical and other, it can be electromagnetic fields, if it's some very high water, etc. or something else is you. 41 There you go. I've only had so many.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6046	Thank you. poslanik Majdandžić. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Bjelobrk Belabrk.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6047	I must confess, dear colleague Majdandžić has very interesting observations of legal solutions through which he is offered today. Before I try to suggest some way of understanding the issues he has set up, if I can join the drawer of the distinguished Minister Hadžiahmetović, we have been in an effective position at the World Bank for $215m since 16 January. Otherwise, we should have passed this law by December 31st, so we didn't bring it. First of all, I'm going to ask for a kind of little tolerance in a way that I'm going to pleign to pass the law, and I'm going to join all those colleagues who are in the mood to build on it as much as we do at the next or some other sessions. In that sense, a debate on quality. You have a difference in Anglo-Saxon and in the Romantic variant. If we're gonna get to the Lexie, we're gonna go a long way. But in any case, in Article 1(2), the distinguished colleague advises that it is important that the quality of the specifics, and you and I also seem to know enough about the profession and whether we can insist on at least one 43 or 44 elements that mark the quality of electricity placements. Secondly, in Article 2 I agree that this formulation in relation to the customs in Bosnia and Herzegovina may be subject to the subject and the controversy if you will, but in any case it was wanted to introduce a definition throughout Article 2 in order to understand the positions of certain language cannons as they are incorporated into the law and here is the distribution and treated as part of the transport that differs from the high voltage and lexpecialis was treated in this law. The terms you have rightly commented against the Bosnian-Herzegovic standard of consumer, supplier, etc. You'll agree, and in your generation, you've had trouble translating from the English word "sufflier." One day we'll probably have to work out how it's done in this country. In article 3, I had a similar idea to that of a distinguished fellow MP here. The previous member defined the competent ministry. Three members before, I advise you to take a look, and the lawyers and norms of the famous was placed in brackets by the Ministry of Etecres only. Derk, the philosophy that is applied in law, Derk as an institution is an independent legal person. But the way to decide is what we know, say, in the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a three-member body that you can call a commission or whatever you want, it's here to say the creators have determined that it's called a commission. And I don't think it'll cause any significant consequences in any variation. And I suggest that we set up cables to get back to work rather on the professional field there are other types of cables that we can treat and rather leave it to the profession. Thank you very much. So I'm plegating to everyone who's in the mood to make a better version of 42 today, but we're already in the next session and any other way to contribute to its better version. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6048	Thank you, my colleague, I wrote down my colleague Vukić Zdenko and my colleague, Banjac, and my colleague Bilbi.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6049	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable President, distinguished colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, I here mean I can clearly show that the electricity sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina is today a healthy tissue that would say be the hope of better days and surely this law has a great impact on the future to be seen through the restructuring of the electricity sector and through the privatisation process. I join the critics because I directly participated in the preparation of this legal project. There are 6-7 versions here and you should know that this version of the law is harmonised, I will say in the relevant place, and unfortunately at a critical moment without the relevant Croatian representatives since it is a very important problem. That's one observation that needs to be made here. It is also clear here to those of us who took part in the drafting of this proposal so that any opening of the debate with the aim of giving an amendment and that an amendment has caused great dilemmas and this law cannot pass. He is indeed the result of the compromise, he would say the strong authority of the international community and the projects that are ahead of us and we really have no choice when it comes to whether or not we accept him, if we think well of the electricity sector, because Bosnia and Herzegovina as a small state today, unfortunately, its electricity system works in two synchronised zones and makes us a large number of toxic problems in our mutual relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6050	Thank you. Mr. Banjac, then Mr. Bilbija.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6051	Dear gentlemen, just before the first appearance of the Honorable Madam Minister, I heard that there was absolute consent of entity governments, or entities when it comes to this law. And that makes me happy, that's the way to actually real and concrete co-operation when all of us here are going to have less problems in this House's work. But what needs to be said, which is the constitutional basis, here is Article 3 point 1.b. and point 5(a) of Article 3 is replaced by the following: Dear gentlemen, you know there's a language, there's a spelling of legal provisions, and I just want to explain a few things. The decimal point has the same function in spelling as two points. That someone who wrote maybe didn't take care of it, that's his problem, I'm not getting into it. The comma doesn't separate, and the allies connect. You have to understand that it's impossible to specify point 5a. how you listed her, because you only took part of that point 5a. And I'd like to see point 5a on that constitutional basis. and not to mention this - constitutional basis, 43 is prescribed that Bosnia and Hercegovna will take over the responsibilities in matters necessary for the preservation of international subjectivity, and for this purpose it can establish additional institutions. Gentlemen, you can't interpret it like that no matter how much you want it to be. And there's no need in this case. The reason why I intervene is the fact that in the reasons for the law being passed, you have not stated anywhere that the entities have agreed, and they have agreed. What are we afraid to say? The other thing I want to make quite clear to the public is that this law provides for Bosnia and Herzegovina to receive a portion of the original income, and that is explicitly stated in the law in two places. I don't mind that, but I'm asking that it be made quite clear that the constitutional basis here is the whole of Article 3 of point 5a. Don't let the gentlemen get it out of context, however you like. I am ready to interpret the Constitution as it is with all its faults and virtues. But there's no need for any calculations right now. There's no need. Point 5a should be indicated. means the whole point 5a. and in the reasons for the adoption, it should be said that the entities agreed on this. Why am I saying this? I speak gentlemen for the public. Because there's a lot going on inside of us that someone's rocking the car, of course they think the train's going. And it happened to us on many occasions. And I'm asking you to make it perfectly clear this moment when it comes to the question, and there will be some other things that will have to be respected by what we brought here, so that it won't be true or not, yes or no. I speak when it comes to entities and this assembly. I just want to make it perfectly clear that this was agreed, that this was passed on, and I have nothing against it. I have absolutely nothing and I will vote for the law, I just want to be correct in applying the Constitution. Nothing beyond that. And of course he gives me two things right. Because I am an MP and because I am the chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Committee. I also feel the duty to do more than others to appeal to the Constitution and ask that this be corrected because there is no need to add.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6052	Thank you, comrade Banjac. If I may comment, you're absolutely right this time. That's not controversial.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6053	This time.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6054	It's a joke, of course. A colleague of Bilbija, and a colleague of Lolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6055	Dear gentlemen, you know from my work so far that I've always been against hasty decisions. But with the fact that I was in one way aware of the passing of these laws that entity prime ministers with their resolute ministers in co-operation with the Ministry of Economic Relations of the Council of Ministers have agreed this law I have no reason to doubt at this point because believe me, I have not even been able to read from all these obligations of the law, I have no reason to doubt that the Council of Ministers has made any changes to the text. If there is any technical error, we believe that 44 can be fixed and that we can support this law to solve these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6056	Thank you. A colleague of Bilbi, yes, a kolega of Lolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6057	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to say that first of all, I just want to say that before I vote, I simply as a man can't allow for something I haven't read. All kinds of oversights in this congregation, but this is exactly how I've never seen such a serious law passed without you knowing why you're voting. I want to say right now that I am not voting for this law. It's because of the congregation's majority, because it's not fair because of a club that works really well, but this is one thing we didn't agree on. Secondly, I'd like to say that I'm glad to hear from my colleague Bilbija that someone has made a deal with someone, and whoever should vote on it has no idea. And whoever made the deal has to understand that in the future they're going to have to call some MPs and let them know why when and how they agreed. Now, on the other hand, as a citizen, I'm in an extremely awkward situation, because I know how important this is for this country, I know how much pressure there will be for both the international community and I think that all those who responded first should be ashamed of such a way of working, and the second thing I can't figure out is that this is going on since '98 and it's suddenly becoming so urgent that one session has to be resolved and I'd like to ask a question of responsibility for someone because someone has to be responsible. It is clear to all of us that this is a big and political issue, because today there is a big change that is quite certain that we have seen here in accordance with the provisions of briselski and some other meetings, conferences, however, it is evident that precisely the gentlemen who are mentioned here in RS want to catch a snake with other people's hands to hide some things from the public, probably from some of their purely political, to say such cheap points, and that game will no longer pass. I don't know Mr. Banjac was talking here about the Constitution and it seems to me that there's a need here to think about whether or not we're breaking the Constitution of this country, because this, I'm against it because this is one big question. There will be more questions behind it, and then they will say you accepted it, and we can't change things now. I just got out, and I think it's a lot better if this is just a delay for the next session. We have ten days to search all the dilemmas and then when we search the dilemmas, when someone convinces me and I'm very close to being in a position to vote yes in 10-15 days, then there won't be any problems, because the dilemmas will be clarified. However, I wanted to say all of this to warn of the mistakes that have been made and to warn that my vote here is not due to the majority, and I would be very wrong if this law fell today and I think it would therefore be a wise decision to postpone it, but to postpone it for the next session, considering especially my colleague Majdandžić has asked a series of questions to which we have not received answers. There are a few more questions, and I think that would be one smart and compromise solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6058	Thank you very much. Mr. Mijatović. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6059	Gentlemen Chairman, distinguished colleagues, my professional job is assistant Director General Elktorprivreda RS for Legal Affairs, organisational legal issues. Personally in this function, I have participated in a series of meetings in harmonising the text of this law and perhaps to analyze you in a certain way, but it is not now the subject of this and some kind of personal contribution to this draft of the law. What Mrs. Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade Minister said is as you would say, everything is absolutely correct. How important it is for me to confirm. Indeed, in the opinion of very competent people and entity ministries and the state ministry, it is necessary to adopt this law in order to say the deadlines set and that is undeniable. I think a little misunderstanding is causing let's say we try to find the culprit a little bit. I, as far as I know on the Council of Ministers, have agreed this to 17.1. therefore, there was really no need since it was agreed and could be given in the procedure so that the material could be obtained and I think that the MPs received material in time so that there would be no animosity or great story about this. And I'd just like to remind you, it says here, in addition to that, the adoption of this law allows the mobilisation of the World Bank's funds under the Power 3 project, or as it's popularly called Fauer 3. We may have forgotten, but we have verified here, just now the Parliamentary Assembly is the World Bank's loan intended for the realization of this project. And there is a full respect for all the procedures that Bosnia and Herzegovina is in charge of the loan, and then entities end up in the electricity sector, and the directors of the electricity industry signed the procedure. I mean everything that we need in the electricity industry or in the electricity industry, however you want to or rather in the power sector, we can't wait for the realisation of these funds to begin. And it's a general assessment that these funds really need the electricity sector to say as dried bread that this sector would stand on its feet, that is, not to fail. That's what I'm saying. And given everything that's been said that there's been such a need for reconciliation, I don't think we should be making a big drama out of anything and that it's a general assessment that this is exactly the kind of law we need. I'd say to a respected gentleman who's been discussing certain provisions of this law, you can see that a man is being referred to matter, etc. but I would really like to point out that, in a number of meetings that last two years in the presence of the World Bank's largest experts, many of them, I would like to say to a very professional group with a presence, I would say to all relevant experts from both ministries and the competent ministry of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the X meetings, that there have been a lot of discussions and that, on the basis of all this, there has been a bill that may not be individually satisfied, but that is, by a general assessment, the maximum solution at this time, and it has really been kept in mind that it has been said here in accordance with EU directives and generally accepted standards that are currently in force in the EU. I think that there are reasons that the Minister has stated and that we need to do so and adopt such a proposal to resolve this by an emergency procedure, because parallelly I will say the activities are going on here and that the state regulatory commission provided for by this law is set up and that the system operator is set up and in the time-limits provided for by law. These are some of the World Bank's conditions, etc. I don't think there should be an interpretation here and I think today the World Bank, even if in this case it's conditioned in some kind of a negative context. On the contrary, the rules of the World Bank are known and there is actually no one relevant in the world who could change those rules and 46. Now I don't know how to get past it now, but I think these are minor misunderstandings, Mr. Lolić. I mean you're right part of it, I'm saying that this text of law came between MPs in time that I don't think there would be any problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6060	Thank you. Mr. Borić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6061	When it comes to this law, the SDA MPs' club requires 15 minutes for further consultations.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6062	Can we have a debate, Mr. Borić, at the end of the debate? Is that all right with you?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6063	You got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6064	Thank you very much. Mr. Majdandžić. When we're done arguing for 15 minutes, a club of MPs' break when they ask for a break has to be given, it's not disputed. My colleague Majdandžić. We'll see, we'll make a deal. If we put your proposal to a vote, I'm sure he'll get most of it. Here you go, colleague Majdandžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6065	Like this. I'll be brief. I didn't get any answers from my colleagues, so it's not right, and it's not college. You know. We did say that we had these experts and that we were going to have to make a deal to do what we had to do, so again, I would just come back for a moment what I said about distribution must be a lapsus mistake, because it can't stand like this. One excludes the other, so this is certainly a distribution signifying the transport of electricity on a medium voltage and low voltage distribution system etc. I mean, it's a little something, but I'm sure that's it. Keep going. I would ask the Proposer if it can be understood that those remarks that have been clearly established, which are the real experts, I don't see these experts here, confirm and somehow install that this law has its own. In order to make a point, be careful, this law does not address the problem of quality electricity supplies for our consumers at all. Many countries and countries have done it. The energy law has been passed by standards that define that electricity quality is supplied to the consumer according to these standards, that, that. We don't provide it so you know. Our consumer can still be given two days without power, having 200w voltage to have 240w looking at low voltage etc. There's nothing we can do. By the way, I've been working together and he says that the countries that are surrounded by this country are handling it. Because we want 47 consumers to get quality electricity, and the reciprocal energy supplier also asks consumers not to pollute their electricity. This means that it does not generate the adverse effects of its consumption in the delivery network, etc. So one consumer relationship is being established, which is defined and requested by the supplier and which is already going as law next year, and this year is experimentally applied, etc. So this is what we're just setting up for me a pretty good one transmission and we're throwing these others in the car. You know, now there's production, distribution and transmission, they're in the car, we have one transmission, we have one State Commission Derk that prescribes it, and as a commission, says the commission, now I don't know if it's a commission and some kind of one system is being set up. Thank God it's all good. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6066	Thank you. Replica Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6067	My fellow Members and fellow Members, dear guests. I want to say a few words. I am particularly encouraged that this law came before Parliament after two years of exhausting work and reconciliation in the context of talks and the work of two electro-priorities, two entities with agreement and co-operation with the Council of Ministers, the World Bank. So I absolutely accept all the risk of voting for this bill even though I haven't studied it properly. But it assures me that this law and answer should be voted on, that is, the replica of Mr Franja Majdadžić, the MP, which is in the law – the law is in line with the EU and the EC standards. If it is in line with EC standards and standards and quality system, then do not worry about that quality. The quality will have to be by standards...(ISO) standards which means this high quality is clearly recognizable. If we accept the standards and criteria of the EC, it assures me that all doubts about variation, i.e. problems with quality and supply of electricity, etc. I agree with everyone that there are also linguistic discrepancies, weather failures, etc., but that's not enough,...the reason for this law to be rejected. So in a broader context, believe me, the quality system based in this law and the quality system is guaranteed by ISO norms and ECs. So absolutely all any objections from the aspect of standardisation of quality in this law have been removed. So once again, I am encouraged and this is a big step for Parliament. I think and believe that the large project is a legal and large step for Parliament in terms of reintegration, because the electricity system is the flow of one state. He can't be divided. So he was supposed to be adopted immediately two years ago, not today six years after Dejton. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6068	Sir, is it a replica? Replica. Here you go, Mr. Vukić replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6069	I will warn my distinguished colleague Avdić that there are three electricity companies vertically integrated in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that through the process of structuring them will surely be more, not less, but more. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6070	Thank you. A fellow Amidžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6071	Gentlemen chairman, fellow MPs, to draw the porch away from these colleagues from the power plant. So I'll be the first to plead against the final yes or no? You know when someone offers you a law according to Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives means to you in general take or leave. Right, you don't have the ability to change, you don't have anything. So the answer is now and the question is whether to take or leave. I'll take it. So I'll vote yes. But I want to say some other things about that now, which is, so that was the first question of the Rules of Procedure. Other problems. Is this law dealing with the space of all Bosnia and Herzegovina? He deals with whether he is in our opinion, but the free is in a certain way initialled by two prime ministers, two entities, and Bosnia and Herzegovina is in such a state of mathematics that 1+1 = 2 is in the final performance. Because no one treats the district in these matters. So again, we're going back to my representative's question. There was a 110kw network going through the district area, and now it's gone. Please, she's gone. I know she's not in the field, and there's no talking about whether she's going to establish herself and what that function is going to look like, etc. So let's not be localist now. I ask if experts are behind the radical technical solutions in this law. Are they the most rational? The other thing is that they are in line with European standards. Let's leave it alone. Whether they're the most efficient, most rational from the aspect of the space we've had and from the aspect means the costs that seem to be in the transmission. From the point of view of the system organisation theory as one rigid hard one that's hard to manage on the outside. So these are my questions or dilemmas now. But it doesn't matter if this is an appeal to think about it when the law is rationalized, when those solutions are improved. And now that's my reason to say what else needs to be done between two people who have the power in Bosnia and Herzegovina to negotiate for such cruel laws. I'd ask you from the Council of Ministers to do everything you can to do with the railroad, because watching the conflict we have with neighboring countries is a spill of our disorganization of the railroad as a single system. We won't admit it. We can't answer the demands that the railroad is more rational, much cheaper in the world as a means of transport. Let's make this a reason for us now, and we have supported such an important law for the state, let it be a reason for us to start and deal with this question that has been asked in Dayton as obligations and deadlines. Or what about the mail? A place to talk about postal operators, and I don't know what kind of esmes, etc. And gentlemen, we need to understand that a letter from any space between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am correcting to let's say Yugoslavia and probably, and from Republika Srpska to Croatia, travels for 15 days. Why? Because the central post office, everything has to go either to Banja Luka, or to Sarajevo you know it, that's it. So let's make this system more rational. It's more rational not from the point of view that I'm touching how much electricity it makes it enters this law or system, but only from the point of view of rationality of technical solutions and human logic. 49 What about the river rafting? Are we interested in the Sava and the eloquent sailing? And that's the subject of the entity again, etc. It's state issues. So I end up being a yes, but I appeal to people to speak and seek rational technical organisational solutions and to improve these issues for the benefit of the whole country and of all the peoples and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6072	Ambassador Šarganović. I hope for a while, you don't have a map.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6073	I thank you for the quality of the explanation to Ms. Minister Hadžiahmetović. I think that was quite a nice and sufficient reason to vote for this, to adopt this law and move faster, but we like to talk a little bit more in detail and more about something that we all want, so we're going to go on with this practice. I think it takes more law by article 105 here in this congregation if we want to reach the standard we have and the task we have. So I don't see any reason why we're here discussing and having discussions, and we know what a huge task we're going to have here in this congregation. If every law would bring all of Bosnia and Herzegovina $215m, I would ask us here if we would constantly discuss why we need it, why Article 105, etc. Although huge funds should come to Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't see the point of such a debate at all. By my logic, if the Council of Ministers is and if we get the notice and explanation that we get at one high level or level and here explain why we should bother. I don't see any reason. It is my suggestion that we all vote unanimously for this law without and that a fellow representative who said he would not vote for it, because this is a law that benefits all of us Bosnia and Herzegovina, and especially the possibility that our exports in the context of our ability to export electricity growth and rating in the international energy market. And in the end, the financial resources for this bill are not needed here. And now we're always telling a story here, is the word nice, nice, good and great, and we know all those languages perfectly both Bosnian and Serbian and Croatian and Montenegrin are all known to us. So I suggest we all vote for this bill and give God more laws like this for $215 million if we had 10 of those laws that's a very fine improvement and I think we're the ones who're going to contribute to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6074	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? I give my word to myself and ask Mr. Ljubić to lead the session. Gentlemen, the transmission of electricity is not a single country's problem. Electricity is sold between countries. It is not disputed that there is agreement here between the entity government and the resolution ministries in entities. It is not disputed that entity governments have co-ordinated work with the Council of Ministers. It is not disputed that two years of talks, agreements, negotiations with representatives of the international community, were held, that experts were involved. It's not all questionable. It is not disputed that we have ratified an international agreement popularly called "power 3" and that the adoption of this law is only part of the application of this agreement. It's not disputed that we already use it money and we haven't passed the law, which would be people's way of saying it's not the faith we've got. But, gentlemen, what I'm saying is, first of all to the Council of Ministers, the bill of law was sent to the House of Representatives on February 7th. It's 12 today, it's 5 days. Count one day necessary for technical preparation of the service, count two days of work, remaining gentlemen for two working days. And that's why MPs could come to the session this morning and get the law. Although it has been two years behind this law, the work of experts stands, political consent stands, and stands the way in which laws should be prepared. It's not a question. It is a dispute that the gentlemen of the Council of Ministers ask you, ask and demand for the dignity of this house, for the authority of this house and all the assembly in the future provide us with the law in good time. They're all in the first MPs to mention at least those ten days. So I am not questioning the work of the law, but I am questioning not the purpose of the issue of the law, but in order not to lose two hours in the future at the beginning of the session that MPs are asking for their laws to be delivered in good time, and here they are absolutely right, because there is a time difference between a meeting of the Council of Ministers and the House of Representatives. This is my duty to tell you to say it on behalf of the MPs and to ask the media to transfer that the House of Representatives is asking the Council of Ministers for us to receive laws in due time. Thank you very much. Here you are, Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6075	I thank the chairman. I am obliged at the very beginning to answer what is said on several occasions, and particularly apostrophe in the end. It is true that the Council of Ministers adopted the draft of this law on the transposition of the regulator and the operator of the electricity system in Bosnia and Herzegovina on 17 January, after which all the remarks and suggestions made and on which we agreed at the Council of Ministers' meeting were to be re-installed to all participants who gave consent to the first draft of this law to agree and to amend the bill. Then translate into three language variants and refer to parliamentary procedure. I have to tell you that there was literally a mobile situation in the sector that was carrying this job, but it couldn't have gone any faster. I'm asking this home to have that in mind. I will try briefly to refer to some of the items and arguments expressed in the discussion with respect to the MPs Banjac and especially the commission led by the specific weights of that commission, I will mention missing here in the constitutional explanation of Article 3(5) of the Additional Jurisdictions provided for by this Constitution. I think he'll explain some of the arguments that were made in this discussion. It stands under a) Bosnia and Herzegovina will assume competences in those matters in which the entity's consent is achieved. The items provided for in the annexes of the V-VIII of the General Framework Agreement or necessary for the preservation of sovereignty, territorial integrity of political independence and international subjectivity of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Additional institutions may be established as necessary for the exercise of these competences. 51 I stands under b) for a period of six months from the entry into force of this constitution, so we are talking about the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, entities will start negotiations with the aim of including other issues in the jurisdiction of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, including the use of energy sources and joint economic projects. We've done six months. I agree that a complete constitutional explanation needs a complete position, Article 3(5). The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I thank Ambassador Banjac. We can just call a member, we can do point 5. And b, and we can just do point 5. There's no problem. All that matters is that we understand each other. It's good for both of us. You got it. Thank you. This law, which I have always understood as a high voltage law, can be seen as an expert in electrical energy, or energy, you can.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6076	Please, MPs, please, Mrs Hadžiahmetović, I ask the MPs to be patient for a little while, there will be a little longer time after this. We'll propose a longer break, please welcome Mrs. Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6077	Thank you. You can therefore read this law as an expert on electricity, you can as an economist, so the law that provides a single economic market, a single electricity market and regulates the problem of specifically exporting electricity. You can view it as a lawyer from the corner of certain items that are spoken here. Others don't get angry, I've given priority to the constitutional problem. I just want to mention as an economist, anticompetitive is the usual economic term used in economic terminology. The second commission legal person or the status of the commission is not precedent, I'm just going to visit to have a securities commission, and I happen to think of it as having legal personality status. The third protected consumer, which is an economic problem, is not only energy from that electricity angle here, as this formulation stands with one note, which will probably explain some of the concerns that have been expressed through some discussions. This is the law on the transfer of the regulator and the operator of the electricity system. Not about the production, not the distribution that regulates the matter here as a lack of this state law. I'll just tell you that at the same time right now in the procedure and the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Parliament of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina are on production laws, etc. electricity that are in entity competences. Furthermore, here it is said that, the reasons that the entities have agreed, I think I have partly responded to this quote that, yes, in quoting these particular provisions of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina which is exactly calling for agreement on this issue. And I don't know if I've noticed anything else here. I'm sorry. I just want to visit that discussion of the honourable Adic MP in Avdić to the standards in the section concerning the transfer of regulators and operators of the calling system to European standards is quite enough. Key European standards concerning 52 quality production, etc. electricity will be precisely specified and are within the jurisdiction of entity laws. I thank you, if there are any more questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6078	Thank you to Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović for the really exhaustive answers and for trying to answer all the questions asked. Since no one ever answered the question, the debate is over. So I'm closing the debate. The SDA MPs' club asked for a break for 15 minutes. We propose that my colleague Avdić and I suggest that the break lasts until half past five so that MPs... / PAUZA/ We had a break at the request of the SDA's Club of Representatives. There was little pause on the president's proposal. That's what we agreed. I suggest we proceed with the session immediately. As you recall, the debate was over. We've come to an act of voting. I ask the messengers to come forward. We have before us a proposal for a law on the transfer of the regulator, and an operator of the electricity system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The request of the Council of Ministers, i.e. I would like to apologize to the Council of Ministers for the urgent procedure within the meaning of Article 105, to consider this law. I ask the messengers to plead. Here you go, Mr. Banjac. Mr. Banjac has proved to be a gentleman. You'll get your word later.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6079	Thank you. I said in my arguments and in answering the suggestions of Members of the Banjac that I consider it quite enough to write exactly which member of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina I read in general and (a) and (b). If you think it even needs to be listed in the constitutional explanation, I am at my disposal. Thank you very much. I just want to say that right in the explanation lies the basis for an agreement between the two entities...
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6080	Mr. Banjac, your intervention is in place, but we can put it on, you don't need to explain. We're going to put that into account and it was a general consensus, it wasn't disputed, and I understood that it would be brought into account. All right, I agree. I ask the MPs to state who is in favour of the Council of Ministers' proposal that this law be considered by an urgent procedure within the meaning of Article 105? Please, who's in? Who's against it? Please, gentlemen, the vote is over. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Yes, it did. Thank you. 53 I am abstentioned for those reasons that I carried out at the pay phone. I think I made myself clear. There's no need for entity when there's no 39, 35 for, abstention 3. There's an entity majority. There's no need, is there, gentlemen? Yes, it is. Let's move on. Gentlemen, I'm opening an argument for you, please, Mr. Bogić, there's a debate going on right now. We formally open the debate even though we had one unique materially essential single debate. But according to the Rules of Procedure, I have to open a debate. I'm opening a debate on this law. Is anyone answering for a word? Please, is anyone answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. I ask the MPs to read the Rules of Procedure, if they do not understand. Please, there must be a debate. I ask the messengers to plead. Who is for the proposal for a law on the transfer of the power system regulator and operator to Bosnia and Herzegovina? Who's voting for it? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's being held back? - Two abstentions, that white paper with my colleague Stokić. I find that out of the presence of 40, for 38, two MPs were abstentioned. There's no need for an ethnic vote. I find that the House adopted the Proposal for a Law on the Transfer of the Regulator and Operator of the Electricity System in Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. The next item of the agenda is Ad. Seven. A proposal for a law on state service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina is a second reading. We have, we have had amendments to the Bill of State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina of Ambassador Abdurahman Malkić. The College assessed that these amendments did not comply with the Rules of Procedure and that they could not go into procedure. We have a report on the Bill on State Service in BiH institutions saying the Constitutional and Legal Commission unanimously adopted the text of the Bill on State Service in BiH institutions with the amendments adopted. Does the chairman of the Commission, Mr. Banjac, want to take the floor? Does anyone from the Council of Ministers want to take a word? No, I don't. Who answers the word, gentlemen? Mr. Malkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6081	Since you said Mr. Chairman that they were not in line with the procedure, I would only ask you to give me a more detailed explanation that 54 procedures were violated within 48 hours before the session was held, 48 hours ago they were proposed. It is a basic entry factor for respecting the procedure in the second reading, and they have been invested before.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6082	Thank you very much. Do you want me to answer this right away or do you have any more questions?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6083	I will. No further questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6084	Okay. Here you go. Let him answer you. Have a seat. If you ask for a word, you'll get the word again. There's no need for you to stand there. According to Article 94. The Rules of Procedures of Members and Clubs of MPs may propose amendments that dispute amendments and adopted by the Commission. They will submit such amendments 48 at the latest, and I ask the MPs to turn off their cell phones no later than 48 hours before the start of the plenary session. You didn't do it 48 hours before the first. I can answer, so I'll give you my word. So you missed that 48-hour deadline. You could only have come by Article 94 paragraph 3(a) yes. You didn't do it. Here you go, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6085	Gentlemen, we have a very serious procedural problem. Parliament's proper work would be next. When the committee ends the commission phase and therefore adopts certain amendments to the proposed text of the law, in writing all MPs who have adopted these amendments should be informed, so that they can respect the procedure we are talking about here. There's a problem. There's a problem. I'm telling you, there's a problem here, and now be careful. If it happens, and it happens, and I wouldn't say it out of the staff, I wouldn't say it, there are other problems. These are the problems of the mail-made relationship. Whether it always arrives or not. We would have to agree on one decision when it can be proved that the problem has happened by an error in the administration, or by the supplier's mistake to allow the MP to submit amendments later on. Me, why I'm saying this. I'm saying first and foremost that we increase the level of democracy and the participation of people in the creation of legal projects. And I reserve the right to speak of this law later. Please think about it. To the Kolegijum to consider one of the sessions to prepare the text of one decision for us, because we should do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6086	Mr. Banjac, I must say that the College shares your opinion on this problem. Unfortunately, there's the Rules of Procedure I find unspeakable. I can make my own comment. The right stage for amendments is between the first and second sessions. That would be and that's the rule in parliaments in the world. Unfortunately, our Rules of Procedure are as it is and we cannot change it, but this issue should be considered, and we can conclude that the conclusion which is the addition of the Rules of Procedure can be settled and, of course, allow the MPs to, after the first session, when the law has passed 55 in principle, give the amendment. In fact, it is the right time for amendments between the first and second sessions. However, the Rules of Procedure is as it is and here I am, if you agree your call I would suggest to the club chiefs next time we meet at the Expansive College to try to find a solution on this issue. I don't think it's gonna be a problem because we've all seen a shortage, a business flaw on this issue. I have information from the Secretary of the House that in this case they have been sent to the amendment in good time and that there has been no failure by a fellow banana. So it wasn't in this case, which doesn't question this general problem that we were talking about. You were talking about the general problem, and we agree and we've had the same kind of thinking. There's a problem with the amendment, but in this case it's not broken. Is anyone else answering for a word? Here you go, colleague Zaširagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6087	I welcome everyone present. We know that we have difficulties sometimes with the interpretation and application of our Rules of Procedure. The BiH party has initiated an opportunity to approach the small revision of the Rules of Procedure and to adapt it in those cases where we have concluded or found that it is an obstacle to some democratic debate or decision-making. In this case, in the case of amendments, when the commission adopts them, I know the practice of voting as a bill completely with the amendments and the original proposal. I don't share that opinion that it's an obligation under our rules of procedure. In accordance with Article 96 of The Rules of Procedure, a regular procedure for the adoption of the law and a second reading shall consist of discussions and voting on the proposed amendments following the order of members. It doesn't say anywhere that we don't vote on amendments if the commission adopts them. They are considered an integral part of the proposal, but I think we must vote in particular on amendments and especially on the text of the law. We have a case here with amendments that have been filed by some. I like them, for example. I couldn't accept it, but I couldn't accept it if this house were to pass on to the commission such an important thing as the adoption of the amendment so that we couldn't plead to them. I can plead on the bill, but also on amendments and no one can pass on to the commission such an important thing, that they adopt amendments that I can't say whether or not I accept them. I do not accept those interpretations under which an amendment is being tabled in this Article 94. Yeah, for example. Some amendments I wouldn't accept, and it's funny for me to submit an amendment to say they're being deleted. That's pretty awkward. We're serious people, and we need to take a stand. I think we can vote on this law to vote first on amendments and then on the law separately, and I suggest so, it comes from Rule 96 of our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6088	Thank you. Let me make a little suggestion. I suggest that we do not now open the matter of the Rules of Procedure and the issue of change, the question of interpretation, because that means that we may not do much tonight and that we will lose time, but since before my remarks Mr. Banjac and Mr. Titan have come forward, I would not want to, therefore, have the right to say a word. It's nothing to argue with. I just wanted us not to go wide to see this issue on the enlarged college. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6089	I am sorry that someone else did not report for an incorrect quote, and I expect that the commission phase is quite clear and does not correspond to the fact that the MP cannot submit an amendment to the amendment, even more than there is a deadline and that is the 48-hour deadline, when every MP has a great right to adopt the amendment to the adopted amendment of the Commission. So that's it, standing exactly. And please, let me tell you, that amendment to the amendment adopted may also read back to the old solution. Niko slows it down, because the commission phase is quite clear, gentlemen. So, maximum democracy has been left behind and that's not the reason. Each MP has a chance at a plenary phase to adopt the amendment to the adopted, to propose an amendment to the adopted Commission amendment within 48. That's why I asked for this decision. That's not true. Read it for sure it's not true, and that's why I asked for a decision. If it doesn't happen to come to a man that he can invest within that time limit to be given the opportunity to invest it afterwards, esteeming what a colleague says wouldn't have happened to tell anyone if you wanted to, if you wouldn't have missed your chance. That's why I asked for the conclusion to be regulated and the possibility of this and that's what we're going to do, I'd just like to say that this possibility exists.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6090	Mr. Grabovac Miro Titan.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6091	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't think it would be repeated to us that we are fully aware of what Mr. Banjac has just said. The one who does not understand how the procedure goes when it comes to amendments and how they can submit amendments to Amendments to Article 94(1) exactly speaks about the part in which it is done. So, the Commission procedure is clearly prescribed and the amendments that have passed the procedure of commission they become an integral part of the text of the law and I think that one of the great mistakes and riots is this whole, MPs in that, after the adoption of the procedure carried out by the Commission, the cleaning of the text or the embedding of amendments that make up an integral part of this text is not carried out. That's what was done in this part of the law. So we have a law that has come as a proposal to which the amendments have been made and which has undergone the amendments and it differs in that all these amendments have to be an integral part of this text and if these amendments do not respond again in another procedure as such, they may submit amendments in accordance with Article 94a, in particular when it comes to point 1 which may challenge the already adopted amendments through the Commission or to make amendments which have not been made at the commission stage and which relate to other parts of the text. I suggest that there be a practice in the future, no matter how much it may be, it may cost, but we'll make it much clearer for the amendments that are incorporated into the law through the commission procedure to get as a consolidated text as the second phase we're considering. Here we now have a commission report on one side and we have a draft law that came from before because these amendments have not been incorporated at all and in order to overcome that part, I suggest that it be a practice in the future to conclude that after the commission phase that the adopted amendments are being incorporated into the text of laws that become an integral part of the text. With this clear, I do not need to debate that amendments that have passed the Commission procedure cannot be voted on unless someone has submitted amendments in accordance with Article 94(1) of the Rules of Procedure. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6092	Thank you, Mr. Grabovac. I'm asking you something, my colleague Grabovac and my colleague, Banjac, as club chiefs, will be able to say about this, and I suggest we don't open this debate right now and please let me be a clear member of 88. It's the rules of procedure. The Commission report shall contain a statement on the necessity of adoption and the principles of the proposed law as well as the amendments adopted. We, in particular, have a report with the amendments adopted. What my colleague Grabovac said was a technical question, but that's a question, that's very expensive. So the question is, do we have an administration that can do this job? It's a technical question, but let's leave it alone, do we have enough computers to do that, but let's leave it for the extended college, where the College, the tight club chiefs, will be able to discuss this, and you, too, you fellow Grabovac. So it's quite clear. We have a report today, and we're pleading on the commission's report. Can I help you with a word? Mr. Malkić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6093	I think my amendments, where I called on Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, absolutely, include, say, 94th, all of these points that are listed, normally, taking into account a point that corresponds to time and situation, not indicating that this is a point, Article 94 point 3a), but I said Article 94. And I don't see any reason why they can't be found, because they absolutely intend to improve the text and content of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6094	You know what, Article 94 contains all variations and when you say Article 94, you say each of these variants and it works. Don't be angry with Comrade Malkić, but you have to say exactly what you want. You can write your own rules of procedure and then we'll do a nice review of the Rules of Procedure. You have to specify. You haven't defined yourself. Okay, it's no problem. We as a College can accept that you have called for Article 94(3). Can we? The college also considered this variant, but did not accept that it goes according to Article 94(3). That's the college's attitude. Here's your colleague, Cuplov.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6095	These members here are members of the special situation. I am talking about the regular procedure in a certain way my colleague Zaćiragić I want to support and I would like to have someone metricipated here, why I emphasize the metrics, for the simple reason that I attended several professional lawyers in the break and could not agree on that attitude. So it's not that there's no problem with that. The problem is obvious. The Rules of Procedure are imprecise. I'll ask you, legal approach, I'm not a freshman, I get the agenda, it's nice writing that and that point, second reading. The second reading shall be processed in Article 96. I don't mean to harass you, but it clearly states that the second reading consists of debate and voting on the extended amendments, following the order of members to which the text continues to apply. It's hard to explain why we're not able to vote on the amendments, and if there's a practice here that I'm doing well through all the sessions so far that when the amendments go through the commission phase, they become an integral part of the law, but you have to try me, I'd ask you, you don't have to, but I think that's a mess I have to tell you. Why can't Article 96 apply in such situations, which implies regular procedure and in this case we have a agenda point which, in the ordinary procedure in the second reading, provides for a debate in Article 94. Of course, it is very important, an extremely important law that is at this point, let's say in this debate, about the Rules of Procedure, is completely losing meaning with these amendments and I as an MP, it is necessary to be able to react not to put myself in a position to think about this problem as a set that has passed the commission phase and has become an integral part of the law, that a law that is acceptable and good in the basic text and that I believe the amendments have changed its essence, I come to the situation to reject it in principle because I do not agree with amendments a complete legislative project. That's what I'm saying. It's not a matter of formal nature. In this situation, it becomes an extremely significant position on whether to think about 96 or one of the exceptional members who is 94.itd.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6096	Thank you. Let's not spread this debate. We have two questions. First, this is a question that needs to be started and we're going to ask it at the Extended College, where club bosses will have the opportunity to point out all the problems based on consultations in our clubs and we have a colleague of the Cuplov and you've said what practice it has been so far. That's absolutely correct. We have our practice as we do, but I would suggest to MPs who, when they want to make amendments, are not sure what to do and how to respect the business procedure to address the service. We have a Secretary of the House, we have a sekretarijat, who is obliged to provide assistance to every MP here. Whether or not you've used that help, it's up to you. You have always at your disposal, where it is duty to provide you with an expert explanation and assistance so that you can use the rights that belong to you as MPs. That's not controversial. I suggest we move on with the debate over this law. I repeat that we put all these questions on the Expansive College and these questions may deserve a special session of colleges where we will manifest ourselves and see what we can do to see to improve our practice, but our practice is so far known and we cannot change it without the conclusion of the House. Here you go. We cannot vote because no amendments have been tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Avdić, I'm trying to explain but I can't. Here's your colleague Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6097	I think we're aware of the controversy the Rules of Procedure has inside us. I would like to join the opinion of a few MPs who feel that they could not, there should be no automation from the aspect of the amendments accepted. Then there wouldn't be any members of 88th and 89th. Article 89. The Rules of Procedure say the commission draws up its report to appoint a rapporteur to defend the Commission's views on the amendments before the House. This member would not be necessary if the automation of the application of what you are talking about is established, but I am aware of the tradition and the ordinary right that has received the right of the public in the home to accept without comment and without voting the views of the committees that have been accepted. Nowhere does automation stand, that amendments become an integral part of the text of the law. There is no member of the Rules of Procedure. He's gone and we can't use that termology, but I believe that, so these controversy needs to be avoided and removed. So Article 89 warns you precisely that the commission will defend its views against home. That member would not need to be automated and the amendments to become an integral part of the text of the law, meaning 59 at the very least. So at least there's controversy about the Rules of Procedure, but not to spread the further atmosphere, I suggest the following. The home of the people has passed this law. He adopted it with amendments. The law will certainly not be consistent when adopted by the House of Representatives because it will be necessary to align the text of the law. It's a certain possibility. The second, high, or deputy High Representative in BiH has delivered a letter to both MPs and the College, you well know and prayed, suggested and asked for amendments not to be adopted because it would disrupt the electoral text and the credibility of the law to be compromised and, in that sense, pleaded, asked this House to adopt the law in the original text without amendments. No amendments. So, we've been warned multiple times in both the oral and the written text. So let's see how and in what way with these amendments adopted by the Constitutional and Legal Committee are acceptable to this home and that we are simply going to agree, where we could, together with the international community, reach some compromise on this law. So, the aim is for this law, however, to pass the parlamentary procedure and to see the light of the day and because it is located on the Rod-map and on all other roads to European integrations, i.e. the 91st post-receivement commitment to the Council of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6098	Thank you. Mr. Banjac came forward and he is the chairman of the committee in charge, and in this capacity he has the right to explain the report and take his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6099	Gentlemen, I think we're wasting time here after three years or two years after the adopted Rules of Procedure we're wasting time which is something completely clear. It's another thing I'd like or what anyone would want and another thing that says. We can plead and amend the Rules of Procedure and that's perfectly fine, but while the Rules of Procedure is what it is, it should be respected. I think the basic legislative procedure at the commission stage clearly states that amendments are being made and Article 87 shows, point 3 of the proposed amendments relating to the same article, etc. And at point 4, it's quite clear. Following the end of the vote on all the proposed amendments, the draft law on the amendments will be voted immediately. So, it's rounding up on my colleague's committee. So, the commission is rounding up the proposal. That's perfect, and don't let us wear ourselves out here. Furthermore, Article 88 of the Commission's report contains a statement on the necessity of adoption and the principles of the proposed law as well as the amendments adopted. Why as well as the amendments adopted? So that someone who isn't satisfied with the amendments in 48 hours could kill them, and I said if there's a breach of how we can overcome them, but we can't disrupt something that's completely clear. Article 89 is very clear. He says the reporter will defend the commission's position at the plenary session. To defend means to explain, gentlemen. Please, don't look for a dictionary now. Here I suggest we take the dictionary. If it were to be voted on, then it would be here to vote on the amendments. It's not gonna happen. 60 So, in Article 94th order that I no longer list, it is quite clear what is done in the plenary phase and in the plenary phase, you gentlemen can refute the amendments, give new ones that join in two, it can also be during the session, reconcile some solutions, so you have full freedom. There's no problem here that you today, here's even more, Mr. Chairman, if today's people who haven't had a chance to invest in the time limit that's scheduled for the amendments, I would suggest they do it now. We don't need to be afraid of people and their suggestions. I'm never the man who's gonna stop anyone's proposal in a way that's incorrect, but this is phase one, and even now there's no need to do that. This is a phase in which we gentlemen discuss the principles of the proposed law, not amendments. I'm sorry, you're right, it's another reading. So, I would now, after all, if there were any failures, I apologize, if there were any failures that people couldn't refute the adopted amendments, I'd give them a chance. No, I wouldn't lose anything here if people said so. So, I won't do it anymore, here's my commitment as chairman of the committee to explain something that's completely clear and I won't answer the same questions anymore. I won't explain any more Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6100	A colleague of Banjac's what you said is in the Rules of Procedure and after the opening debate can be given an amendment to Article 94(3) of the Rules of Procedure. It's not a dispute, but people don't ask for it. It's completely different, the debate is completely different. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6101	Please, nice. I'm talking about one principle here. I've had time to make amendments if I wanted to and say I want to delete the amendment, but what do we do? It's inconclusive for me to write and delete. We are talking about this article in 94 and 95. I don't mention him. It's a procedure for making amendments. Pay attention to Article 96(4). After voting on all the proposed amendments, all of them, there is no exception for the commission to adopt amendments to itself, they will vote immediately on the bill in its final text. The final text is what passes the amendment, not what the Commission adopts the amendments and please do not mix Articles 94 and 96. 96. Is the next phase and no amendment is excluded from the vote and I personally am not going to pass on to the committee to adopt amendments on my behalf. I have the right as an MP to vote on every amendment and that gives me Article 96(4). I have had time to make amendments, but we have to clear this up once and I will not allow any commission to take over the role of Members of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6102	Wrong quote, Mr. Grabovac. Please, this is quite clear. We have our practice so far. We know how we did this year. If we want to change practice.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6103	I don't know what we've been stuck so far since we've been here for a year and more in this house and it's exactly known by the Rules of Procedure how we've worked and how it's been going for every law. What's the issue now? And I would also like to explain that what my colleague was talking about is a plenary phase. This is the meaning of this section of 61 of the plenary session in the second reading, which applies from Article 93 to Article 97 and speaks of amendments tabled either on amendments or on the existing text, i.e. the renewed amendments which have not been made at the commission stage, as referred to in Article 94 or paragraph 1, 2 or 3 of the table in which the part is concerned, and then we are just talking about the vote of those amendments which have been tabled directly in the plenary session. Therefore, I believe that we need to overcome this, that we do not need to discuss this, or we need to all but one law that has been passed so far back and declare it invalid and vote it in a way that the House of Representatives votes directly on the amendments in the way that is now being spoken. This is where Mr. Banjac said well what he was doing at what stage. In the commission phase, and what is done in this plenary phase and the fact that it has always been so far that the amendments adopted at the commission stage become an integral part of the text of the law and the problem is that, no matter how much we think the text has to be changed after the passage of this phase and the consolidated text is sent to the MPs and it would not have come to this.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6104	Please, the matter is completely clear. Here is the question of the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. We have been working for a year and more based on a clear interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. This house cannot be interpreted differently by the Rules of Procedure from law to law. Since the first session, we've been interpreting the Rules of Procedure and always in the same way. If you want to change, there's only one way, and that's the conclusion that we go through the conclusion, and we add the Rules of Procedure, if we need most, if we don't, I suggest we work. A colleague named Neimarlija answered for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6105	Madam Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, guests, short-term intervention and we have already gone awol, and I personally have been a supporter of the Chairman's proposal to leave these matters of principle to the Rules of Procedure for a happier term. However, since it has continued and the important question is being asked, I would just like to meet the respected home with the fact that, first of all, the previous rules of procedure in our home was a practice in the way it was interpreted by counterpart Zaćiragić in the previous Rules of Procedure. According to this current Rules of Procedure, I'm judging, a colleague of Banjac's is right to interpret it. Why am I judging? Because in the meantime, the creation of this Rules of Procedure has really been followed by an initiative to strengthen the work of committees in Parliament, and I ask that this be respected. In my court, my colleague Banjac is right to interpret this Rules of Procedure, as we also have pressure and one tradition that was in place in this home before this article, where each amendment was individually declared by the dom and the commission did not have this authority of the House. Appreciating the intensities of the proponents of these solutions in the Rules of Procedure and representatives of these international institutions who really wanted to strengthen the work of committees, and whether this has now occurred in our Parliament or not, it is up to us to judge. I would suggest that now, indeed, we end this debate and that this issue that deserves attention has been discussed at one of the next sessions, having, above all, this problematic basis, which can be found in whether our commissions, in fact, have, by far, justified by the intensities of the legislator of this Rules of Procedure that they at first assume some of the powers which, by the logic of the matter they represent, say Mrs Zaćiragić, belong to Parliament. So I would open this question, and I would ask it, so in this broader framework, which today, obviously, we can't have the chance or we don't have 62 time. I wanted to take this out just to show that there are a number of other things that are going to open up or that imply the solution that we need to come up with. In my court, my colleagues, Banjac and colleagues Grabovac, are right to understand, read the Rules of Procedure, and I, therefore, add to it the reasons why the changes in the Rules of Procedure, which is strengthening the work of committees. Did it come to him? Did the commissions deserve it? I think it's a question that needs to be included in the debate over this disputed place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6106	Thank you very much, colleague Neimarlija. Who's answering for a word? A fellow Amidžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6107	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, I am in line with those who feel that this issue really needs to be resolved at the next session of the House immediately. It's not a formal nature at all, it's, indeed, essential. If you're interested in the Expansive College, since you're only going to sit down, and often the club presidents will take the right to represent the MPs there, I want to say this. The Rules of Procedure are pretty clear around here. Please, he treats three parts, three things. The first is the initiative, the second is the commission phase, the third is the plenary phase. Something to be forgotten at each of these stages is a proposer. He's the one who's carrying the law into Parliament insinuate him. Something can be an integral part of the delicacy, if the committee's proposal accepts what the commission has adopted and the home says, we accept it as an integral part of our law. Everything else is the forgetting of a promoter who takes care of all aspects and the essence of the law, its reflection on life on the ground, etc. So now whether the lady or the gentleman is right, I don't know. If the promoter was on board and accepted these amendments as part of his own, then I think it's okay for them to become an integral part of the law. If that wasn't the case, then the commission has amended the proposal why it doesn't have the right, because the promoter is someone else, then it becomes the legislator.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6108	That's right, and she becomes a bill promoter.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6109	Okay. Then the legislator is the commission. We also have a major problem in communicating with the Council of Ministers, which, on the proposal of the law, should be both a processor and a promoter, that we know which team of people worked there, that we can communicate with them about the essence of the law, exchange opinions and then submit amendments here wisely, etc. These things have to be on the news page, if we want to have a serious debate about the law. So here it is, then, that it is about taking over the role of the promoter and then let the College, the committee with the Proposer, sort it out, so if that's what it is. But, look, I'm going to the other part of my discussion. The Rules of Procedure are clear. It says 48 hours from the adoption of the amendments on the committee. Please, this provision will never be respected, just on one condition that we're all networked into an email, the Internet that we have presented the work of commissions and everything else on it, so that we know what's going on. The Rules of Procedure say it's my right as an agent to attend every committee at home, without the right to decide, but it's my right to attend 63, but I don't know when they're being held, so it's my right to question. That's questionable. I'm saying it from the point of view of my commission's work, but that's the way it is. But let us, in our conclusion today, oblige the College, the Expanded, to open this debate as a preliminary, preliminary initiative to the College and to come as a preliminary question to solve it at the next session of the House of Representatives and at this point if it is due to the practice of accepting what has been so far, but to ask the legislator what he thinks about these amendments. They meant to pull them back or not. If he's not going to pull the law, then he agrees.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6110	To which member are you calling the Rules of Procedure, please? When presenting your proposal, please refer to a member of the Rules of Procedure. I don't mind. Just tell me which one it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6111	I don't have a suggestion. I called for a hearing, since others had the same suggestions. My proposal is that at this point, the bill's proposer, gentlemen, chairing, whoever processed it, prepared and delivered it to this parliamentary assembly, is to determine it against any amendment in this House. It is his right to withdraw until the last day and moment if the essence of the law is broken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6112	Please, colleague Amidžić asked the right question at the beginning of his presentation. You have two principles here. In this case, if you're saying that the question is raised here, that the Proposer is made known and that his statement depends on whether the amendment has been accepted, then you deny all the practice so far. I'm not saying that this system isn't good, but we can't apply it. We can apply it if we change the act, that's the essence of it, because it's being voted on by the committee. We are getting a report from the Commission and on the committee is not the relevant position of the promoter, it is only the proposal's opinion. It is not required that the Proposer accept the amendment, but the vote committee, please, it is quite clear, and if you are calling on us now to have the relevant position of the Council of Ministers so that he can declare the amendments, please tell us on the basis of which member. That's not a member. Here's a colleague of the Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6113	Maybe that proposal Mr. Amidžić made was once. Because that practice used to be. But now it's completely different. This would mean, in that case, that the proposer in the plenary phase could already withdraw the law. Not here. So that part can't be affected at all when it comes to amendments, and it can't be influenced by the proposer, but it's just a commission, it goes through its phase, when it enters the plenary phase, has a second phase of the amendment to the amendments and amendments to the existing text. Therefore, we have nothing to discuss and to reason. I propose that we move on when it comes to voting on the text or voting on amendments, if they are submitted in accordance with Article 94(1) or (3), if you accept as College 64 that they can be voted on in general on the law as a whole, including amendments that have passed the commission phase.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6114	You know the attitude of the College. Please, let me answer your question. You know the attitude of the College, and I told you, and don't ask us to change it. Now we can't even change him because he's a third member of the College. So that's a very clear thing. I suggest we go. You'll get the wrong quote from my colleague Amidžić, it's not a dispute. I say we go to work to go to law-making and do what we did before the break and what we did this year tonight. If we want to change, we're going to have an extended college and we're going to open it up and see how we've been doing, but we can't change the practice on this law now and what we've been doing for a year, please. Here's a colleague of Amidžić. Maybe we were wrong, maybe we weren't okay, but we can't change that right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6115	I'll only read article 85. Rules of Procedure and interpret it as you wish. So he's the second article in the commission phase. 1. This Regulation shall enter into Rules of Procedure, the legislator is present at the session, I read the Croatian version. So he can't, he won't, he can't, he can't, he can't. So there is when it's being considered. A representative of the Council of Ministers may participate in the work of the commission even when the Council of Ministers is not a proposing one. So he can do it then. Point 2. If the proposing fails to attend a committee meeting and the commission finds the presence of the proposing is necessary, the commission may postpone the debate on the matter and inform the proposing – who will be asked to be at the next session. Unless the promoter is at the next session after the call. If the proposer does not attend the next session, he will be deemed to have given up the proposal, which is reported by the chairman at home. Gentlemen, the whole article treats the promoter. If the promoter was not at the commission stage or did not want to come, the commission can only suggest that the law be notified to the president of the House that he has given up the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6116	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6117	Gentlemen, I read the article literally so someone else can read it in another version, but it literally writes it. I didn't leave out a single word or add it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6118	I'm tired of explaining, we're coming in, you can't mix two concepts. You may have one concept that you colleagues spoke of as fellow Amidžić. What do you want 65? You want a word? Here you go. You're the president of the commission and you have a number of times as many as you're the president of the commission first. It's not a dispute.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6119	Mr. Chairman, I, of course, Mr. Chairman, I, of course, have no intention of negotiating to you or having a session, but the fact is that people here want to interpret something beyond the agenda. On the agenda, first of all, it's not the Rules of Procedure. Another thing, people are misreading. I can't do anything about what a man purposely or not purposely reads. Here he says nicely, gentlemen, there is a direct and indirect interpretation of legal norms, and you as lawyers need to know that, and you need to direct these people to something that they know what to do. I don't want to read. Says here, the commission can. Mr. Ambassador, when he says yes, that means he doesn't have to. And don't let us lose here, I suggest we stop the debate here. And why, I can explain it now, but I have no intention of explaining it anymore. I think it's the dezevouation of the home. This is called obstruction, not what I do when you attribute it to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6120	A fellow Banjac means you're not a master but a second. All right, let's move on, gentlemen. The draft law on state service in BiH's government institutions is on the agenda. Is anyone answering for the word on the text of the law? So we're discussing the law, not the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Who answers the word. Mr. Bilbija.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6121	Since this is a second reading. As far as I'm concerned, there are no amendments. There's nothing to say. I suggest we make a statement on the law in the second reading, then select a committee to comply with the House of Peoples and all these controversial issues if there are any amendments and there is likely to be a commission to agree, give us back the law and adopt it at home.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6122	Thank you, Mr. Bilbija. I have to say you're very constructive, but you know what club you're from. Please, is anyone answering the word on the bill? No Niko's answering for a word. The debate is closed. I ask Mr. Avdić and Mrs. Todorović to assist me in further work. I put to the vote a report by the commission, a report on the proposal for a law on state service in BiH institutions, the question is a second reading. Who's in? Who's against it? - 4 Who Is Restraint? It doesn't matter to us how much we vote, it doesn't matter how many MPs sit in the O.R. Please, 38 MPs are in the O.R., but not everyone voted. So we only take into account those who are present and who voted. MPs who have not voted for neither against nor abstained are not quorums. No need to sit down but they're not quorum. 66 To vote 30 – against 4 – abstention 2. I'd like an entity vote. Who is from the Federation of BiH for the bill? Thank you. Who is from the RS for the bill? I'm asking the MPs from the RS. Thank you. I find that, I have already said by entities of the Federation of BiH for 19 -- Republika Srpska for 11 I find that the law has been passed. The Conciliation Commission, the People's House adopted the text. We have information that the text is not identical in both homes. We should pick a commission. I'm asking you to select three board members. National parity. Not me, thank you. Mr. Bilbi, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6123	I have my proposal, and you can agree and you don't have to. My proposal after a few ladies pass by this time, and I think they will agree sooner than we will be on the commission of Mrs Violeta Kamberović, Mrs Bahrija Osmanović and Mr Branislav Lolić. That's my suggestion and you go ahead. I must say that from the order of the Serbian people, as far as I know, there are none, then I cannot suggest it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6124	A fellow Lolić is my generation, I can joke. I see you've been given a significant position, Mr. Lolić. Do we have any other suggestions from fellow Amidžić?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6125	I apologize to Mrs. Kamberović, an esteemed colleague, but I would ask the House to accept my suggestion that Mr. Grabovac, who is very interested in this matter, go to this commission instead. He's been working with a series of amendments, he's a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and he could probably work with more information to comply with this law. That's the only criterion that makes me, ma'am, no one else, why I'm proposing to Mr. Grabovac I've been having this conversation with.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6126	Any other suggestions? There isn't. Let's hear what the candidates think. Do they agree to be candidates? I think a fellow Grabovac as a gentleman will accept your suggestion. We have a proposal for three commission members. It's not full base. Mr. Lolić, Mr. Grabovac and Mrs. Osmanović. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Niko. Who's being held back? – 2 Congratulations to the members of the elected Commission and we wish them successful work in the joint committee with members of the House of Peoples. Let's move on, gentlemen. 67 Ad.8. Proposed law. Here you go. If you want. Here's to the pay phone so you can formulate the proposal if you have it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6127	I propose that the College prepare for the next session, or possibly the second in a row, the relevant material for reviewing the disputed parts of the Rules of Procedure around this commission phase.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6128	Thank you, colleague Neimarlija. I thought there was no need for a special vote, that's absolute. Because I've said several times that an extended college will be held up when it meets with this issue. As chairman, I can call the College and put that agenda item on the table and at the same time all the club bosses here are present and no one has challenged it. So they agreed. So there is no dispute, we will consider the issue at the next session of the enlarged college. You have a colleague, Borić, and a colleague, Borić, will state his position on behalf of the SDA Club. It's a far better way to go than to go now. We must prepare it before the House. The real body is therefore an extended college and it can do so according to the Rules of Procedure. It's not a dispute. There's an agreement. How to arrange an extended college. But don't open it now, there's a way to change the Rules of Procedure, that's the essence of things. Here's a colleague of Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6129	I share with you both, and I'm tired, and I'm willing to let this really end. However, I have avoided pointing to a whole series of dimensions of this problem, which has proved, among other things, and in different readings, now I do not know which member of my colleagues Amidžić and my colleagues Banjac and there is a problem with the proposing, there is a problem of this acceptance or refusal of the proposal, if there is one. There are experiences where the commission adopted. We in the Constitutional Commission adopted three amendments once. I personally warned that they were changing the character of the law. The amendments we adopted had to give up on them afterwards, because the promoter did not explain the essence of the law and we changed the character of the law completely by amendments. So they're not simple questions. It's not only about the terms of investment in amendments, it's about the essentials that I would say even the procedures themselves. I therefore hold the chairmanship that this is not just a matter for the Expansive College but for the College and the extended composition to prepare certain proposals for the House and then.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6130	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6131	Then in that case, I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6132	That's what I thought. The extended college is also in the function of preparing the House's sessions. Decisions are made by Dom. The interpretation of the Rules of Procedure is given to the House. The conclusion brings home. Nothing's disputed. Let's move on, gentlemen. Point 8. 68 Ad.8. The proposal for a copyright law and related rights law in BiH Here we have a report from the commission that you have received. We've got a copy of the printing error. This was informed by the Council of Ministers, the resolute minister, Mrs Hadžiahmetović. We have a proposal for amendments he has made, given by MPs, that is, the MPs' club with a long name PDP, the SNSD,.... The amendments were submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as it was written on the basis of Article 94(3) of the College and concluded that the amendments had been submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure not only formally but also essentially, that they fit in point 94(a) of Article 94(a). Please, gentlemen, I'm opening a debate. Here you go. Is anyone saying anything? No, I don't. I'm finishing my dispersion. We'll have to make a statement about the amendments and then the bill. We have amendments to the Proposed Law on Copyright and Related Firsts in BiH. Put to the vote of Amendment I. Do you have everyone in front of you not to read? Yes, you do. I don't think I read the amendment you have the text. Amendment and have you found the amendments, gentlemen? Yes, it is. Please, who's for the amendment and the PDP Club and... Who's in? Who's against it? Are you in or out? Who's being held back? - 2 Please the Service cannot arrive. Not all MPs voted. I'm asking you all to vote, because we can get into a situation where we can't make decisions. I'm begging you, let's do it again. Who's for Amendment I? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you. We're going to an entity vote. Who's from the RS for Amendment I? Thank you. Which one of the MPs from the Federation of BiH is for? Of the 36 present – 27 for – versus 7 – abstention 2. By entities. Federation – 14 – RS 13 amendments accepted. I ask the MP to make his statement on Amendment II. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? We need an entity vote. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Who's from RS for? Thank you. 26 for – 8 against – abstention 1 of 36. From RS to 13 – from the Federation for 12 amendments II adopted. 69 I put to the vote Amendment III Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'd like an entity vote. Who's from RS for? Who's from the Federation of BiH for? 36 present and voting. 26 for – versus 9 – abstention 1. By entities Federation 13 for – RS 13 for Amendment III was adopted. Amendment IV Who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Who's being held back? Thank you. By entities. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Who's from RS for? Please report. 37 present and voting. For 26 – versus 9- abstention 1. By entities. The same is the result of 13 for both the Federation and RS. I find that Amendment IV has been adopted. We have one more amendment left for us, gentlemen. Please state who's in favor of Amendment V? Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you. It's an entity vote. Which one of the MPs from RS is for? Which one of the MPs from the Federation of BiH is for? Thank you. Please get the results. Present and vote 38 – for 16 – against 11 – abstention 1 MP. By entities from the Federation for 14 from RS for 13 amendments V was adopted. The amendments were adopted and became an integral part of the bill. In front of us, gentlemen, there is a law on copyright and related rights in BiH asking an MP to state who is in favour of the bill? Who's against it? - 1 MP is against. Who's being held back? Niko. Please report. You don't need an entity vote. First, I'm going to announce the result. We must declare the winner, please. So present and voted 38 – for 36 – v 1 – abstention 1. I konstatuj that the Proposed Law on Copyright and Related Rights has received the necessary majority and has been adopted. The law was passed to the House of Peoples with as much as eight amendments. So they're better than us, but not much. We need to form a coordination committee to propose three members. Please, who's got a suggestion? Mr. Bilbija, do you have a suggestion again? National structure 1 – 1 – 1 is required. Here you go, Mr. Grabovac. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6133	I suggest Mr. Zdenko Vukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6134	We need Bošnjak - Ambassador Bošnjak. Please make a suggestion. Sead Avdić. I suggest we vote immediately until they hesitate. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? The result of the 38 votes cast by 37 – against 1. Congratulations to colleagues Banjac, Vukić and Avdić for being elected to this committee. Let's move on. Ad.9. Proposal for a consumer protection law in BiH – second reading We have a lot of this material, you have a report, you have a proposal for an amendment of the PDP Assembly Club, the SNSD... called on the Proposer to Article 94(3)a) formally met the conditions. We have assessed at the College that he has essentially, materially met the conditions that he can call on that point and that the amendments are in the process. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Consumer protection law. Here you go, colleague Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6135	I would like to ask only the College for the next session to respond where it sees a greater initial justification of the amendment, where Mr Bilbija Željko is invited to Article 94.3.a) of my call for Article 94.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6136	Thank you. You'll get the answer. We have a report from the commission. Here's a report on the proposal for a consumer protection law in BiH, and there's a commission, it says. The Commission unanimously adopted the proposal for a consumer protection law in BiH, with the amendments set out above. I'm reading the commission's report. Whether or not the president of the commission wants to, colleague Brka. In front of the Council of Ministers, no. Is anyone answering for a word? I'm closing the debate. We're voting on amendments. Amendment and who's in? Thank you. Which one? Niko. Whosoever is abstention, two messengers are restrained. Whether or not an entity is required. I don't think so. 35 votes - 30 for - abstentioned 3 MPs. It's not a primary entity vote. 71 Amendment II Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? 2 The vote was 32 – abstentioned 2 – 34 and voted – 35 present. Someone hasn't voted, but there's no need for an entity vote, the amendment has been passed. Gentlemen, these amendments have become an integral part of the bill. I'm putting the bill to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Niko. I find that the proposal for a consumer protection law in BiH has been adopted unanimously and is mild to our consumers. We need a match. He was adopted into the House of Peoples. I'd like three members to join the committee. Traditionally, Mr. Bilbija, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6137	Since these two laws are from Rod-Mepe, they have some kind of kinship. My opinion on this committee here I propose Mr. Banjac as related laws go at the same time, if we can at least cut costs.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6138	Thank you. Please make other suggestions to Amidžić. In the third proposal from the Bosniak People's MPs, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6139	Adem Borić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6140	Adem Borić. I suggest we vote until they change their minds. Who's in? Banjac, Borić and Amidžić. Who's against it? Abstained? I'm also agreeing with you this time. Congratulations to the chosen ones, named. Let's move on. Ad.10. Proposal for a law on concessions in BiH – first reading We have the opinion of the Commission. Does the chairman of the committee or the Council of Ministers want to speak? Here you go. No, I don't. I am opening a debate – the first reading of the BiH concession law means principles – the first reading that I do not repeat. Niko one's answering for a word. Here you go, Mr. Banjac. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6141	I'd start with one wrong quote in constitutional law, because here says the following. Bosnia and Herzegovina and entities will not interfere with Article 1.4 said there is freedom of movement across BiH and BiH and entities will not interfere with the full freedom of movement of persons, goods, services and capital across BiH. According to the Constitution, the arrangement, the award of concessions in a single way in the BiH single market would provide for a level playing field under which concessions for the provision of infrastructure and services would be awarded to domestic and foreign legal persons, as well as the exploitation of natural resources, the restoration of infrastructure and all related facilities and devices in segments that fall under the Constitution under the authority of BiH or are in the common competence of BiH and or the Federation and or RS. There are no gentlemen of such jurisdiction. There are no common competences between BiH and entities. There's a division of jurisdiction, and this is how I think it's unacceptable. We missed this on the constitutional basis that we didn't notice or it was a different text. So there's no such thing and there's still a need and it's still being added here or the Brcko District. There is no such common jurisdiction, but at first there is an explicit division of competencies in the sense that what is explicitly not given to BiH institutions belongs to entities. Furthermore, Article 3(1)x provides that the establishment and functioning of joint and international communication means, in order to build, function and develop communications,... depends largely on the award of concessions. Please, if you are reading Article 3. point 1.x) then it is quite clear that it is saying something else, which is the establishment and operation of joint and international communications. The establishment means legal regulation, and functioning means the possibility of flow. So it's not that, gentlemen. I just want this to be fixed in a way and as provided for by the Constitution. It's one thing that I have an objection and I'd like him to agree with the Constitution. Furthermore, when it comes to principles, then I think the example works, of course I don't want to tie this to the discussion by members, but to illustrate the illustration, I'm referring to Article 5 in which it is quite clear that a principle called a clear division of jurisdiction is not respected. This law establishes a concession commission for BiH, as an independent regulatory, regulatory body carrying out its powers as a commission for the award of concessions to BiH. There are no concessions from BiH. There are concessions from the BiH institutions. Therefore, it must be known what is whose jurisdiction and the Constitution has clearly shared the jurisdiction that in Article 6 is the same thing. That it's not a clear principle or subordination. For the sake of illustrations, I quote a part of Article 7(2), which says when it acts as a joint concession commission, the commission consists of seven members, chairing the 1st position and chairing the Joint Commission for concessions, chairing three members of the Joint Commission in the ranks of the Committee members of the 1st Chamber, shall be changed on the basis of cases and appointed by the chairman of the Joint Commission of the members of the Federation of BiH concessions and established by the law on concessions of the Federation of BiH or by the members of the RS concession committee established by the law on concessions of the RS or representatives of the competent authorities established by the law on concessions of the Brcko District. Gentlemen, it is not appropriate for me and does not give a clear subordination, that the chairman, either at will or at his own discretion, from one commission which is regulated and founded by law 73 in entities, or the district, he determines who will enter the Commission's commission for joint concessions. What can happen here? It's pretty clear. Abuse, i.e. giving an individual, regardless of who such powers are, may occur, without respecting that there is an entity president there, that there exists in another entity entity entity president and that there is a president in the Brcko District. What's he gonna do there if this one can tell him this one can't. I think something like that is disrupting the principle of subordination. So, according to what I don't owe much, I find unsettled, which is that two principles should be respected, which is the principle of clear division of jurisdiction and the principle of subordination. I said one more thing about the constitutional part. Contrary to what the law says, there is something that I can illustrately say to the 16th member which is that there is once again no precision. In the exclusive competence of the Commission, monitoring the overall work of the escrow workers is aimed at overall work. If that commission is in charge of all the work, then what are the entity commissions doing there? Since there is a overlap between competences, which can create problems in function, I think this should be arranged by respecting sub-ordination and respecting the principle of division of competencies. To that end, I can say, that I think the law should be passed, absolutely I do, and I think that what I said is in principle, and until it's done first, I would have to be restrained, because I can't, I'm not against it, but as a man, I can't accept something that, in my opinion, is not clearly legally arranged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6142	Dear gentlemen, I have a couple, if we are in a position for the bidders, or the processors of this law to answer a few questions, first of all, to the following. Why a concessionary can't be a physical person. It is exclusively said here that concessions are granted to foreign and domestic legal persons. However, given that we here two months or months ago do not know exactly, we passed the Law on Inter-entity and international public road transport and a kind of concession is giving order to drive a transport carrier, also where it is said that transport can also be handled by a legal and physical person. So I ask why it couldn't be here and a natural person to deal with, that it could get concessions for what reasons? But I'd like to ask you one more question. Why the questions in the jurisdiction of the Joint Commission referred to in Article 12(4) Why should it be decided by all seven members of the committee? Why not leave the possibility that possibly two members do not have for various reasons that they are not there to decide a minimum of seven members and that it should be 3+2 depending on the composition as already agreed. The Commission's work is public in cases. I would like to make an observation here that, in principle, the work of the commission is public and that this point 2.Article 15 is deleted. The Commission may hold a public hearing on any matter of its jurisdiction if it is in the public interest. To erase it. This may be the case in Article 24(s) of the concession under 1). The concession shall be awarded to the tenderer who has met all the criteria set out in the tender. This is sufficient if the necessary conditions are defined in the tender and the additional condition is high-ranking compared to the other bidders. Whether you're thinking of a number of people coming in when you're filing a tender or a company's membership that's going to work, and that you need to put something like that in the tender so it doesn't stand in the law. I had a fundamental observation on why 74 commissions are already making it, why the commission doesn't call tenders, why it then serves to allow some ministry or I don't even know who to call. If it's regulatory, then why doesn't the concession committee call a tender? Those are my remarks.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6143	Thank you, Mr. Malkić. Who else is answering for a word? kolega Malkić, I suggest you that the House's Professional Service will help you use it properly. All right, all right. Whatever you think you should do. It's yours. Who else is answering for a word? Mr. Mijatović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6144	As it is, right now, the first reading or discussion of the principles on which the law rests. In addition to what the predecessors said, especially Mr. Banjac, it's my assessment, to be direct, about a bad legal project, precisely because of the principles on which he rests. I think a law like this would simply be inapplicable. I'd only add one more principle that wasn't done properly. And that's that we in this law don't know what a concession is. What's the object of the concession? That's so much law in general, if you see it read that article, you'll see it's so general, and it's given to jurisdiction, as we often want to use those expressions to an independent commission. It seems to me that our commissions are going to such an independence that they are not responding to anyone, even in certain cases to the BiH Parliament. To the soul here, that is not the case, but if you see how it is intertwined in both jurisdiction and what is given in a single joint one at the level of BiH, one entity, when you meet that rasomoniade and since you do not know what is the subject of the concession itself, where various interpretations are allowed, to which heights, for example, are allowed. Take it as mineral water or as I know some mineral wealth, it can be something of very little value, etc. I have had the opportunity to read the law on concessions from other countries, and unlike some legal projects, which I have praised today, here I really have observations of this kind that the law in no way meets these European standards. I think you should. It is needed at the state level, for the simple reason that projects that are given through concessions, let's assume in certain situations, are really only needed by the state, because it works in large projects to agree, say, the World Bank and something else where the state's consent is needed. I think that, in principle, based on these discussions, and if you understand me, you should fix this legal project right in principle.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6145	You've really asked, I think, the right questions. But the questions have been asked, does anyone in front of the Council of Ministers want to address and explain themselves?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6146	Gentlemen, it is very difficult to explain these questions without the Council of Ministers' attitude. I know for sure that around the law long, long have been consulted, 75 long has been the law in the preparatory procedure itself. It tried together with entity working groups to bring the legal text into line. We are also aware that he as a proponent, that he is certainly not and having these remarks today that he certainly did not hit the best thing that was needed in essence to achieve the objectives of the law and would certainly be able to implement the text. Here the question now arises whether the text will be corrected through amendments or the whole concept of text changed. If the whole concept of text changes, then we have to postpone it or withdraw it or what the procedure is but not to come into a position that we can't re-evaluate it in six months. It's the only way I can do it. It's very difficult to fix the text today.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6147	You don't have the Council of Ministers here, there's no chairman, from the ministers it's just Mr. Zubak but it's not your resolution ministry. We have to do this, the remarks are serious, so that we wouldn't, eventually put it to a vote and see that there are doubts among the MPs, I suggest that we take it off the agenda tonight, eventually, and we suggest to the Council of Ministers that this law should consider one more and that, possibly, simply, go ahead, colleague brkati. Let's just take it off to get these consultations done.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6148	I think this is a very important legal project for this country and we're always talking about some kind of investment from outside. It's the creation of an ambience that can come investment and I understand that there are shortcomings and I accept them all, but since this is the first reading. I suggest that it be done by amendments first and that this law goes in the process not to be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6149	I agree with my colleague, brkati, that it's such an important law, but we have one way out, it seems to me to be Article 95 of Law 3. The home may ask the commission to draw up a new report based on new guidelines within 15 days. To hear new directions, I'd go that way, we lose nothing, we don't lose the beat for 15 days. Please, I didn't mention six months. It's okay. It's a misunderstanding. I suggest we apply Article 95(3.). I'll pročitaći the article, please. This is the first reading and first reading regulated by Article 95. We can apply Article 95, paragraph 3. The home may ask the commission to draw up a new report based on new guidelines within 15 days. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Unanimity. I'm sorry, one abstention. 32 present and voting for 31 - abstention 1. You don't need an entity vote. I find that a proposal has been adopted to apply Article 95 of Law 3 and this requires the Commission to draw up a new report, based on new guidelines within 15 days. 76 Gentlemen, let's move on. Ad.11. The proposal for a law on statistics on BiH – the first reading is pred us a proposal for a law on statistics on BiH. It's a first reading. A discussion of principles. Who's answering for a word? Is he answering for the word of the President of the Commission or the Council of Ministers. Mr. Kulenović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6150	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues, we have a legal project ahead of us that has been in the process for a long time, and I'm glad he arrived here today. Of course, this is the first reading. I'm going to talk about principles now, actually I'm going to say about a very important principle. If you have read this draft, then we have seen especially for me in article 18.zakon, it should be more precise to highlight the obligations of entity institutions to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Statistics Agency. Secondly, I think it is necessary to significantly specify the work and activities part of the work, which are related to the co-operation of entity institutions and the Brcko District Office towards the BiH Statistics Agency. Basically, I support this draft and I hope that it will be accepted as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6151	Dear gentlemen, in the draft of the BiH Statistics Act, there is no preamble missing, so it is not known which is the first basis for adopting such a draft of the law. There is also an unknown procedure for the adoption of the bill in order to specify the competences of the BiH Constitution. We believe that this law has other ultimate objectives and at least to address the issue of real statistical needs and the exchange of information between entity institutions, so that these remarks should be seriously considered, because our challenge in the function of presenting solutions that are relevant for the exchange of information at the entity level and for the needs of the BiH Statistics Agency.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6152	Thank you, Mr. Banjac. I apologize to Bilbi. I've already done my laps a few times. I'm tired. Who's next to the word? No Niko closes the debate. It's a first reading. The bill – first reading – is about the statistical law – first reading. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? If the service is confused, then she's tired, okay. I beg you, please, there are doubts as to how the MPs voted, I won't speak names, I won't say which club doesn't matter. I ask you to repeat the vote to make it, that it is safe to vote on the regularity of the vote. Are you sure? We've got extra votes. 77 Please repeat the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Niko. Who's being held back? Entire vote. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Who's from RS for? I beg the MPs of the RS who's in favour? 33 messengers present and voting. Vote 24 for -9 abstention. No one's against it. Federation for 22 – RS for 2. The law didn't get the necessary entity majority and it's going to be agreeable. Thank you. Ad.12. Proposal for a law on the use and protection of the sign of the Red Cross/Cross and the name of the Red Cross/Cross Society – first reading We have a report from the competent commission. Whether or not the President of the Commission, the President of the Commission is not here. Does anyone in front of the board want to take a word for it? It's the Constitutional and Legal Commission. No, I don't. In front of the Council of Ministers, no. Is anyone answering for a word? Thank you. There's a report. It's not a dispute. I figure no one's answering for a word. It's a closed debate. I'm putting a motion to vote. Who is for the Bill on the Use and Protection of the Red Cross/Christ and the name of the Red Cross/Brussels Society. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Niko. Who's being held back? Niko. Unanimity. 33 votes and 33 for. I find the proposal for a law on the use and protection of the Red Cross, etc. received the required majority and was adopted in the first reading. Ad.13. The proposal for a conclusion on the issue of foreign policy we have this proposal from the Commission. Mr Amidžić, as president of the Commission, informed us when we established the agenda. I don't know if there's any need. Mr. Jovanović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6153	The Honorable presidency of ladies and gentlemen, we have, to say, about this agenda, about this agenda point, received three different types of conclusions. So we got one where there was the BiH Parliamentary Assembly stamp of 29.11. The second we got 22.1.2002 and the third 25.1.2002. I really don't know what conclusions we need to discuss and probably, I guess, this last one. I say one we got in these envelopes. We got one on the table when we got here and this third one was sharing. I guess this is the third one.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6154	I'm asking the President of the Commission to explain again. I understood the explanation at the beginning of the session, but please explain it again. Trusting some MPs may not be clear. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6155	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, I am precisely because of this issue and I felt the need to explain it in the debate on the agenda and to ask you to respect this note in this session's time and try to treat the actual material that I have then indicated. It is true that at the 17th session, we held a debate on foreign policy, and at that time, at the request of the Commission, you had one working text that was offered as a possible variant of the conclusion. We had a very broad discussion at the time and from which a stenogram was removed for the Commission at our request and which we discussed on the Commission together with the College. So 22.1. we had a session of the Commission and the College. We then prepared this possible version of 22.1. which is also shared with you before the Commission's session of the Colleges. Why don't I know? Probably because of that inflation of that paper, something like that happened. I saw it at the beginning here on my desk and then I intervened. It is working material and the final proposal of both the Komisje and the College are the stakes that carry the date 25.1. I told you in the beginning. It is also true that we do not have employees in the Commission. We don't have a lecturer at all in the House, please you need to know that. I'm sorry that you have some version of my language that I speak. If it is not in the letter and language of other peoples that I greatly respect, but, therefore, you do now have material prepared by the Commission and the College on the basis of the House's conclusion. I believe, when I have already received my word, Mr. Chairman, that, in order to make it easier to understand and accept these conclusions, I should say that they essentially have the point of everything that is previous and have the 90 percent debate from the House's session. These conclusions wherever there are beside the number of stars before the text, this is the result of your proposals and demands from the House session. That's what I'm obliged to say. That's new from the earlier parts. So wherever you have a star, that's new. That's the result of that stenogram and your demands. Secondly, they're in shape something different. Why? Because it was the Commission's proposal, and now it's the subject of the Dom burden because the House adopts them. So now the dom is put in the first person and they have now one final version that we suggest that the House be declared. Furthermore, only in one case has one question moved from the area to the area b with the same definition. The conclusions of the proposal were the previous text, they had to undergo some changes in this time dynamic because some deadlines were already exceeded and exceeded in time from 17th to 20th session of Parliament's House of Representatives. The conclusions do not have any serious political dimension in the House of Relations for the position of parlamometer groups, etc. entity etc. They contain one wish for the Commission's and the House's future activity in the field of foreign policy to be anticipated in this year, as well as the relationship with the executive authority and with the BiH Presidency, and to include the House more substance in parliamentary supervision and monitoring of this work. So, without any pretense to make it a special and high policy. I think they are also supported by the Presidency that we address with certain demands, by the Council of Ministers, etc. We haven't even come across any challenge to certain demands and positions of the House. This is, then, defining our operational activity in relation to this year. 79 I would also like to say that, this joint session of the College and the Commission, and I thanked the members of the College for their presence for giving a special quality in clarifying the position of the Commission as a working body and the College of the House, above all in the decision-making system in the business position of the College in deciding in certain things in agreeing certain things, etc. And I think that it's very good for us in the Commission and that we've solved all the dilemmas and those questions that, perhaps, from our knowledge, may have been in one or two steps and my steps have been somewhere like a dilemma of how to do what, etc. Therefore, I believe that this debate was very contentious, quality, I think unanimous, and there is no reason why these conclusions should not be adopted. I note that we do not have the possibility here to put the relationship against each discussion and the proposals from the stenogram, but in just one or two cases we could not accept those initiatives, because they, however, cross dimensions, go to another sphere in the sphere outside of the foreign policy or outside the position of the Commission and the House of Representatives. So thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6156	Thank the President of the Commission for the exhaustive explanations. I think the dilemma is explained what the proposal is about. Please report to my colleague Jovanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6157	I just want to say that this third variant is best, because I've had objections to those first two variants so that this variant is acceptable and I think we should vote for it, but I'd like to ask if you can at least deliver it to us, I don't know if the other MPs have this map of the way to really know what it's asking us to do. I would beg for this next session if we could have it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6158	Thank you, colleague Jovanović. Directions of the road map have been sent. We'll take a look at that, but please, gentlemen of the Parliament, you have the right to request all information through the Service. No Niko can deny you that right. If you don't have information or information, then don't blame us from the College and look for it. The service is here at your service. He must provide you with it if possible. So the problem is, you don't often use your rights. But let's not go in there. Is there anyone else going through the debate? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. When it comes to the proposal. Here's a colleague of the Grabovac. I thought the debate was over, but I'm sorry I didn't see you. You probably hid behind someone.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6159	I find it very interesting here where in the conclusions it says monitoring the activity where you have items where in one part you're looking at in one request. I don't think those two terms are the same. They don't have the same status. Given that the 5th point is about approaching NATO even when it comes to information on the state of admission to the Partnership for Peace, it is also important. This is where you're wanted, which means you don't have to deliver, at least I get 80 that way. Is that in legal terms? You're looking, you can get it, but you don't have to, if you're asking it to be done, unless there's a sanction for it. I support all of this with the fact that I suggest that this whole part where it requires to be transformed into a requirement that we require them to deliver it so that we can, because that information is available to them.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6160	Thank you, comrade Grabovac. I would like the President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6161	We've really tried, I'm glad, although we're tired, but menus are kind of like this and kind of nice because they give me the opportunity to promote a little bit to the Commission and our work both in public and in this House I'm especially glad that the president of my club sets it up, etc. But I beg your patience. I assure you that we have spent a lot of time on this document in preparation and have invested a lot of creative and human opportunities in the Commission in preparing this document. So we invested and the concept was business and constitutional. In the last session, I'm responding to this thesis. In the last session, we achieved a full unity on at least three key foreign policy actors, that is, the BiH Presidency, which runs foreign policy under the Constitution, that is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has its own tasks, executive power and that is this House that has its own position. Now watch out, where this home has the responsibilities of the executive authority towards it, you may notice a general where we address the Council of Ministers, to some ministry or body that is bound to them, and where we address the BiH Presidency, we ask them to do so. The constitutional position is their position, because we cannot demand us imperatively from an organ that is defined very clearly by the Constitution, etc. We expect that these terms, especially with a member of the Bureau or members of the Bureau, will say that this will put on the agenda that they will support in their work that they will surely, therefore, come to their good will. Therefore, these may be slightly more subtle differences in verbs, but they are the fact of our overall relations and business and constitutional consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6162	I think fellow Grabovac that you're satisfied, not just, are you club-sufficient. I won't speak for the Commission, but I don't think it's a problem. Mr. Grabovac, I trust the President of the Commission, but I doubt you trust your club club from the same party. Well, yes, but you trust each other. I agree. This is a joke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6163	Here I am interested in whether it is the Council ofministers' jurisdiction when it comes to joining NATO and the Partnership for Peace? Since they're all institutions and everything goes through the Council of Ministers. Is it really their jurisdiction or not, and whether we have as Parliament, when it comes to jurisdiction over the Council of Ministers, or whether we have a parliamentary view in the truth whether they have to answer us. Here's to giving me an answer, maybe I'm wrong, but I doubt it. 81
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6164	Thank you very much. I think you asked the right questions. The answers are clear. I'd put this to a vote. Please make a statement. Who is the Commission's proposal for a conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Niko. Just give the results unanimously. 31 for – 31 votes. It's adopted. You don't need an entity vote. Gentlemen, we're going to the next item on the agenda, that's point 14. Ad.14. Proposed conclusion on the case, I apologize point 15. Ad. 15. Giving consent to ratification. You're right. Because I have two materials. An old one. I've got a mess like my colleague Amidžić had, so we've cleared it up. Ad. 14. Giving consent to ratification: (a) The Faculty Protocol with the Convention on the Rights of the Child which refers to the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography Does the President of the Commission want to make a statement? You delivered your report. Maybe it'd be good to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6165	Fellow MPs I will try to be brief, however, be careful here is the 15th point from a) to h) there are a lot of these agreements etc. So let me be in general in the first part and in the second part very concrete. In fact, at its meeting, the Commission considered these materials at home's external affairs commission. You have papers in front of you, but you probably didn't all read them, and that's why you insist I don't talk. It has a positive opinion on all agreements (a) to (g). So, the Commission was unanimous in its view that it was given a positive opinion that they were ratified to suggest it so. You have these suggestions ahead of you. However, the agreement under h) which was later included today and at this session as a new flood of the agenda, which is the agreement on a development loan (a project of technical assistance for privatising between BiH and the international association for development) means that it is the concrete dimension of my presentation. I am giving you the text you received, where the Foreign Affairs Commission writes, discussed this agreement, on which it concluded to propose to the House of Representatives, to shorten, before making a decision on the ratification of that agreement from the Council of Ministers, to request further explanations on the users of the loans of technical assistance, on the debt and sources of repayment of credit with a fundamental objective that each form of credit should be returned, written here by the end-user, and to provide the credit with a valid means of payment as a form of guarantee in the return of funds. 82 Discussions on the Commission touched the same matter and in agreement (e) this is the same agreement with the Association for Development of 15 million for the poor areas and the agreement under f) of 20 million, these are peace loans for employment. The majority of the members of the Commission feel that this should generally be resolved on the route of the Council of Ministers, the user, or the House, to address them with a request not to be in charge of the BiH Budget, but rather to the end-user. As far as we got an explanation from the Council of Ministers' representatives, the users of all these loans are entities, or someone in entities, based on some brotherly division in entities. There are supposed to be agreements between entities, agreements and insisting that these agreements be ratified as soon as possible, which we do not dispute, but in this case it is a concrete request. This doesn't have to make it difficult to ratify, or our statement, even the Komsija didn't say let's just say no, but the fact is that someone has to solve this issue and I wouldn't name the members of the Commission, but gentlemen, only one gentleman didn't discuss it like this on the Commission in front of a representative, we've even been informed that the Council of Ministers has sent this back from its session at least two or three times, and that these things have not been resolved. So, I'm going to give my vote, and I hope most of the members of the Commission and this agreement, if that's interest and need, but I'd like to put a gentleman in charge, and here's no one to take care of it. If that's it, if it's gonna be us, and the others spent it, I'm not for these agreements. Thank you. I think I made myself clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6166	Thank you. Mr. Bilbija.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6167	Since I am both a member and a Vice-President of the Foreign Affairs Commission, yesterday we received before the Commission this draft agreement, and I told the Commission that I could not make a statement about something that I had not even looked at. In the meantime, I've checked and I can support this agreement. So there's no one slow, but here's no Council of Ministers and all, it's really ugly to get the material and in five minutes I have to decide whether or not I'm into it. That's why I asked for time. I can't vote I've been abstentioned, but today I'm going to vote in favour of the agreement, because I've received relevant information, but here's another proposal. We can't do business in a package. Maybe if there's a discussion to discuss and then we go one by one as anyone wants to make a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6168	I think the discussion is about to end. Is anyone else answering for word? Mr. Lolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6169	Very short. This is where three credit arrangements are hidden. Well, since we're tired, I'm not going to strangle you, but we have to say that the last one about privatisation refers to a number of, I think, $15 million. We, when we look at it, are mostly money that goes for technical assistance for some consultants on the side, and we think if we get the right idea that it's a waste of money, because it's a huge number, and that's why I think we're making sure that it's 83 good to ask for it now, so we're going to vote for it, because this last one has a problem has to be adopted until 28th, otherwise there's no credit. If we estimate we can't finish, at least we're asking for a little clarification for the next session of the Council of Ministers. Finally, we as MPs contact the people and there is a chance of laws serving these microcredit organisations, for some help to local communities that we can simply tell our voters there, these are micro loans we need here and there to report, the procedure is that, then and then they will be available, because in these three loans are hiding over 50 million marks that is a great number for this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-02-12-0.u6170	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for word? No, I don't. It's a closed debate. I put to the vote the Faculty Protocol with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which refers to the sale of children, child prostitution and child prognostication. Who's in favor of accepting the Faculty Protocol? Thank you. Who's against it? Niko. Who's being held back? Niko. Please, 27 votes - 27 for. I realize it's adopted. Ad.b) Faculty protocol with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which refers to the employment of children in the Armed Sukova Who is for the adoption of the Protocol on the approval of ratification? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? It's the same result. Unanimity 27 for – 27 votes. c) Faculty protocol with the Convention on the Elimination of all forms of discrimination against women I have no doubt that we will have a majority. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? The 27 MPs voted unanimously for the 27 who voted. It's adopted. d) an agreement on co-operation in the fight against international terrorism, trafficking in intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances and organised crime between, is the agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey Who is in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? A unanimous 28 MPs voted – 28 for. I realize it's adopted. 84 e) Development Credit Agreement – Community development project between BiH and the International Development Association Who is for ratification of consent? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? – 1 29 MPs voted – 28 for – 1 abstention. I find he's adopted. f) Development Credit Agreement – Second project of the local initiative between BiH and the International Development Association Who is for? Who's against it? Who's being held back? A abstention 1 MP. The result of the vote is the same as before. Yes, 28 for – 1 against 29. I figure he's got the right majority. g) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on co-operation in the surrender and acceptance of a person whose stay is illegal Who is to give consent to ratification? Thank you. Who's against it? - One abstention? Niko. I'd like the result of the vote. 28 MPs voted, pardon 29 – 28 MPs voted, present and voted. One MP didn't vote. It doesn't matter. We've got most of it. I realize it's accepted. h) Development Credit Agreement – Technical assistance project for privatisation between BiH and the International Development Association We have the opinion of the Commission. We heard. Who's in? Who's against it? Niko. Who's being held back? - 1 Member of the Parliament of 29 MPs is present. 28 for – 1 abstention. I'm finding that there's been an agreement for ratification. Please, we have another agenda point. That's the 15th point of the agenda. Ad.15. The appointment of a member of the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum is very short. House of Representatives, I'll read the letter. Party for BiH MPs' club – The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives at the hands of the chairman. Given the circumstances, the replacement of a member of the Party for BiH in the Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum has led to a violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the representation of entities in the Commission, the Party for BiH MPs' Club proposes to elect Mr Franjo Majdandžić in the Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum, instead of Mr Begović Muhamed. Club chairman Mr. 85 Mustafa Cuplov. Mr. Cuplov's here. This is all right. We can put it to a vote. We have to do this according to the Rules of Procedure. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Niko. This agenda has exhausted today's session. The seat is over. Gentlemen, thank you for your attention. 31 all for it. It's not a dispute. The session is closed at 7:30.
