ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5780	Can we get started? Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 19th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is the first session in 2002, I am taking this opportunity to wish once again for all BiH citizens on behalf of the House of Representatives a lot of happiness and success in the personal, family and professional plan this year. Also, gentlemen, on behalf of the College of the House of Representatives in the narrow and wider composition, I wish you many successes this year with the desire to achieve those results that are expected of us as representatives of the citizens of BiH. In addition to MPs, members of the BiH presidency were invited to the session. Mr Belkić is present, I welcome him, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the Council of Ministers, we expect the arrival of the chairman and ministers, OHR representatives, OSCE representatives, representatives of the European Union and representatives of the BiH Embassy. According to a report by the Service, the session is attended by 38 MPs, if no one has arrived afterwards, 38 MPs, 24 MPs from the Federation of BiH and 14 MPs from RS. The absence was announced by Mr. Baković Mirko. We have a quorum and we can sit today. Gentlemen, in the invitation to the session, you have received a draft agenda. Today, the General College met, and at today’s session, it agreed on an amended agenda proposal that you received. If you got it, I wouldn't read it. Please be present to turn off their phones or turn them down, so they don't interfere with the work of the House of Representatives. Did you get a proposal on the agenda, which was adopted at the Extended College? Yes, it is. I am obliged to inform you of the following. The extended college, today, concluded that next week, i.e. on Wednesday, a session of the Extended College, which will be held for the subject, on the subject of the work of the House of Representatives, more concrete conditions for the work of the Representative's House, as well as the issue of international activities of the House, more concrete visits by MPs and members of the College as part of international visits. We will seek and prepare for this session of the Enlarged College the necessary reports, so the club heads and members of the College will be able to discuss this on the basis of facts and reports. 2 Gentlemen, you have received a proposal on the agenda. I wouldn't read if we weren't wasting our time. You told me you did. So, it's in front of you, it's agreed by the College, there's no need for a vote. Is there a proposal to supplement the agenda? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5781	Dear Members of Parliament, honored guests, I would like to thank the chairman for putting him for an extended College point initiated by the SDA Parliament Club, and in that part we are pleased. However, the SDA MPs' club insisted, and I convey that position here today, to be classified as one item of the agenda, a special item of the agenda, because the SDA MPs' club has shed a glass and that the practice that has been living in this House of Representatives has been for a year now that 4-5 people are constantly travelling abroad on which this College decides, not to consult with the committee responsible for foreign affairs, as it should and therefore the Members' Club considers that this College has largely lost the credibility of the SDA's Members' Club. When I listened to the hymn today, now with you, I remembered... he once said to do justice or the world would fail. Indeed, there is much to our work, and if we want to push our lives forward in this troubled Bosnia in this poor Bosnia, then we would have to adopt some rules of conduct and rhetoric and practice harmonize. Therefore, the Members' Club insists on putting an end to the agenda of information on official travel abroad, both this college, of course, and the House of Peoples, is about ad-hok travels, therefore, not at the invitation of various international institutions, but on, for reasons that cause the cost of this Parliament's expenses to how and how much budget in this item has been unwarranted. So, if I was clear, briefer information on the official journey abroad, both the College and the MPs, the reasons for travel and the justification of travel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5782	Here's who's answering for the word. poslanik Majdandžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5783	Honorable Presidency, distinguished guests, respected representatives, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Article 50. Rules of Procedure, I suggest that this session be held on the 12th point, i.e. The last item of the agenda, which would be to consider proposals to improve the efficiency of the work and content of the House of Representatives' work with proposals for the Assembly's work plan for this year. I think it would be very useful, because directly we MPs – MPs would consider and give opinions and contribute to installing it in documents that will define and determine the work of this home. Looking at our work, you can indeed put certain remarks into mind, given the very great possibilities for me, even we have here, in my opinion, and experts for certain things, looking at the MPs. It's work, it's been asked more than once, and it's not sure what we want. Furthermore, there are appropriate competences that intertwine between this home of the House of Nations and even with the entity congregations. I'll prove there, I've got material 3 that says it, which means it should be synchronised and directed, and then everyone does their job, but everyone's responsible for their job. Furthermore, there is something that we are somehow all, so we are not getting into this very sensitive painful, I would say the problem of this civilization and the countries in transition, and that's this privatisation and these disasters and those effects that come into this modern age syndrome, which affects, clearly, these areas and if we don't have the authority, it's in the jurisdiction of the entity, but I think we should have the proper insight, the proper intervention, because it's all good for this people and we're all responsible for that. We shouldn't have allowed deviations to happen, things to happen that aren't right, because if that money goes away, if one company is destroyed, then it's over, neither does the law benefit nor criminal responsibility, I don't know what, etc. So, to me it's, this home would have to find some modusa, that, however, to say it controls, sees, directs and if it had the appropriate, even, I'd say ingenuity over it. Furthermore, the question of employment, of capacity opening, again it is, I say, mostly in entity intelligence, but I can't explain to myself and I don't understand that we are so cut-off that we look at it, we do some things solidly here, I would say and honestly, but I also need our engagements and our responsibilities and our interventions and our opportunities to use and that this home has over these powers and, too, my involvement, etc. Secondly, the remarks are at the beginning of this house, the remarks are, in my opinion, I'm saying it on my own behalf. The observations are, too, that many at the College agree, that much is solved in an extended College, and not directly solved in that home, I think it's alienation of law and I don't accept it. Whoever accepts that is his business. I don't accept it and I'm asking it to be more and more here to do it, to agree here, etc. So, in my view today, they would freely expose our opinions and suggestions and define it at the next session and through the College and then have a plan of work to somehow have these activities focused and to work more constructively and to work more content in all of this. I plead to a very constructive opposition, I must say, that's my opinion and that's the Alliance for Change, which, as far as I'm concerned, has not shown any change so that it's a bit of a trade in this year and that it works a little bit, I'd say more, more responsible, more actively in all of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5784	Thank you, dear colleague Majdandžić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5785	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, we have a agenda, which the General College has said, as the chairman has said, but I did not get the information, why points 3 and 4 are from the agenda that we received, is that that means that the College has not reached agreement, or the commission has not reached agreement on certain issues and whether it means that we will not have a customs tariff law, then the demining law, which was in the procedure. In what period, i.e. the time limit for the College to be agreed, within which time period the Joint Commission is to be agreed on by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you, and I'm asking for this to be on the agenda. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5786	Thank you very much, colleague Malkić. Let's move on. If no one is answering for a word, let me start at the end, as the question of Koelga Malkić has been asked has been raised. I assumed, or the College assumed that it was a very little time from the completion of the extended college until the beginning of the session, or until the assembly of MPs in the O.R., that you did succeed from your club chief to find out, because the Expansive College, this is not a criticism of anyone to understand. The extended college works by the club chiefs informing the MPs. I don't consider that a failure. It's obvious that we were in one, maybe a weather problem, and I'm going to try to answer that, reminding you that the Expansive College has agreed. You asked why there are no points 3 and 4. I don't think I should read it again, we all have it in front of us, very simple, because that part of the job isn't done, and there's no reason it won't be at the next session. Therefore, all of this can be completed by the next session and I ask you to appreciate it. For example, customs tariffs, tomorrow the House of People must determine a commission that will agree with us. So, there are obstacles to the College's members agreeing that this is the case, and I would suggest that these issues are so absorbed that it goes to the next session, and until then we will do everything we can to achieve these assumptions. If you're satisfied with your colleague Malkić, he was pleased with your club chief, I think all the club bosses agreed on it and I don't think we should open up about it and I ask you to respect what he has respected and extended the College. We had two suggestions from colleagues, Borić Adem, for information on the official travels of the College and MPs of the House of Representatives, if I wrote down my colleague Boriću well and, secondly, my colleague Majdandžić Franjo, the proposal, if I wrote down my colleague Majdandžić correctly, is a proposal to improve the work of the Representative's house. My kolega Majdandžić, I understand that your proposal, in fact, supports the conclusion of the Extended College, is to hold a special or thematic session of the Extended College, where we will discuss between the other and the issues that you have discussed. This will be part of the questions we will discuss, and I informed MPs at the beginning of the session that there will be a special session and what are the most important issues. I informed you because we had this agreement to do so so that I could inform you about it we had achieved it on an extended college. In that sense, fellow Majdandžić, do you stay on that proposal or do you simply think that we could view it as a support for this special session of the Expansive College and then from the Expansive College, of course, with what we conclude and what we are dealing with, we are going to the House session. Here you go, colleague Majdandžić. Please, colleague Majdanžić, then put your proposal into practice. You didn't send us a written proposal, but I'd formulate that you are correct, here's my colleague Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5787	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, I understand that the honourable representative, Mr Majdandžić, also suggested that we discuss our work plan. We talked about it this morning and at the College and I think by Wednesday we should definitely prepare one material, we don't just work on a new plan. We need to see what we did from the 2001 plan, because there are activities that are not completed, we have some started, not completed. So we can't discuss a plan here. I believe that we should prepare a review of the materials and plans carried out for 2001 by Wednesday. And give one initial proposal for work for 2002, and then let the presidents of the clubs evaluate that material on Wednesday and then we can schedule a session any day, not taking care of anything else, I think it's quite enough. Today, by not knowing what we've done since 2001 and what awaits us, I don't think it would be effective, and as far as I'm concerned, if Mr Majdandžić stays with it, I will support him.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5788	It's a matter of supplementing the business procedure of Article 45. The Rules of Procedure and I in the Expansive College today reminded the club bosses of article 45 that was on the agenda. We didn't have a debate, because there's no need, we just reminded us of a member of the 45th, in which it's precisely prescribed how the Home's orientation work plan is determined for a certain period, and that activity begins. Here's your colleague Majdandžić. Can we adopt the proposal of fellow Ljubić or. You accept my colleague Ljubić's proposal. Thank you, dear colleague Majdandžić. That's in line with the club chief's deal. We have a proposal from colleagues, Borić Adem, on the official trips of the College and MPs to the House of Representatives. Boriću'll make sure you stay on it. Thank you very much. Here we need preparation and we agreed to go with the preparation on Wednesday, so I asked my colleague, Borić, to possibly accept, if not, I will not influence your position, please, my colleague, Boriću. You decide for yourself, I don't suggest anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5789	You need to be really correct here and tell the truth. I insisted that the first next session be treated with this question. If the first next session is going to be, because if it's going to be a two-month session, and this money starts to be spent spending, then we haven't done anything. I insisted that the first next session be devoted to this issue, then I would accept in front of the club to prepare this session and vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5790	kolega Borić, I think we'll arrange it on Wednesday at the Extended College and there won't be any problem that this was the mood of all members of the Expanded College.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5791	I have reason not to believe it, because so far there's been a discrepancy between rhetoric and words, but now I'm going to believe it. The public is watching and listening to us so I can believe it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5792	Thank you, colleague Borić, I think your position is very constructive and remains that what we have agreed today is that we all do it together, by begging my colleague 6 Bora Bjelobrk, yes, if he thinks to change the side of the table to do it in the break, not during the session. Since we've adopted no proposals, I suggest that we move on to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes from the 17th and 18th session of the House of Representatives, gentlemen, we have a prisoner from the 17th session of the House of Representatives. Whether or not there are objections to the record. I'm sorry, first of all I have to find out for the record that the agenda has been adopted. Please don't let me read that. We all know the agenda. So, I find that the agenda has been adopted. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. You've got the penitentiary. Any objections? Mr. Bilby's 17th-session record.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5793	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, respected members of the Presidency, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and guests, I will not take up much of your time, on page 7, so it is no mistake, only likely that the minutes are a little summed up. I would add, as far as my discussion of international agreements is concerned, so I'm just going to do part of the sentence, where it says which countries the agreements are concluded with, with which it is intended to conclude the same, just add to what criteria, for the reason that it will already be prepared so that it doesn't go half-prepared, just to add this to the record, so that people who are doing this would have full insight into it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5794	Is anyone else answering for a word? Niko. I'm putting the minutes of the 17th session to the vote, with my colleague Bilbija's remarks. Who's in? I'm asking the service to count the votes. Did you make it? Does anyone mind? Is there someone who's restrained? I find that of the 38 MPs present, 37 voted in favour. One MP didn't vote. Can we conclude that out of the 38 present, 38 voted in favour. There's no misunderstanding. Thank you very much. I understand the 17th-session minutes have been adopted. Gentlemen, we're moving on to the minutes from the 18th session. Does he have any objections? Niko one's answering for a word. I'm putting it to a vote. Who's in favor of accepting the minutes of the 18th session? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Apparently, it's unanimous again. I'd like a report from the service. Of 38 MPs to vote 38. I understand that the 18-session record has been adopted. 7 Gentlemen, we are moving on to the second item of the agenda. Ad.2. MPs' questions and answers Answers to MPs' questions by this session received MPs: Tihomir Gligorić, Branislav Lolić and Boro Bjelobrk. Here you go with asking MPs questions. Mr. Majdandžić Franjo. Let me just create a order of MPs according to the notification order.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5795	Dear President, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen MPs - MPs, issue number one. Article 135 is amended as follows: Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I demand that a report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers for 2001 be submitted for the next session of this House. Two months ago, we were provided with information on the work of the Council of Ministers for the period from 22.02 to 30.09.2001. I think there should be a report this time with proposals for measures, activities, problems and everything else this home should consider and adopt. Question number two. Why is it not put on the agenda of this or last session of the House of Representatives of the Party for BiH Committee on Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, in accordance with Article 136. The Rules of Procedure, which was presented at the 14th session. I have an unofficial interpretation that we should prepare this in legal form. I don't accept that. I've studied technical sciences, I'm not legal and I don't engage in what I'm not an expert and I'm asking an expert to do, because it'll do better. Question number three. At the last meeting of this house, we discussed the BiH Presidency's report on foreign policy and made good conclusions that we will re-examine and adopt and implement through the appropriate committee. I think we'd need a report from the College of this House on the activities of foreign policy, which we need to verify, adopt and determine appropriate directions. I am also particularly interested in the conclusion of a meeting of representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH with representatives of the Croatian Parliament on material regulated by property and labour law. Question number four. I ask for a public notice to be issued to the College of the House of Representatives – a warning for non-compliance with the starting hours of the session of the House of Representatives, which is usually prolonged in 30 to 60 minutes, while the 17th session is extended for 4 hours and 45 minutes, 18th session 3 hours. I msiliti this is inadmissible, only if our president wants to enter the Ginis Book of Records, then there's an excuse for someone, etc., but I wouldn't allow such luxury and such playing with this respected home and these problems. Please put it on the discussion. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5796	I would like to thank Mr Majdandžić, the esteemed representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Salih Kulenović, and let the distinguished representative Mr. Đedović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5797	Gentlemen Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, dear guests, I will not ask any questions. I have an intervention. In fact, before this session, we received a transcript of the general directions and priorities for implementing BiH's foreign policy and on page 31 and 32 there is someone else's discussion under my name. My discussion is on page 29, and the way I was saying, I'm asking you to fix this. This is a technical mistake, especially because I hope we'll pass a copyright law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5798	I would like to thank Mr. Kulenović's esteemed representative. The remark will be corrected, in the way the distinguished representative Mr. Kulenović said. Mr. Đedović's guest of honor has the word and let the honourable representative of Mr. Cuplov be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5799	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished colleagues, dear guests. I have three questions. First, when I received answers to the already asked parliamentary questions: (a) At the beginning of the 8th month, I raised a question in front of this house. Who was traveling? By what standard? What are the costs? What results? But for the period '98-2000 and 2000-2002. After that, a colleague from SDA Džaferović at the People's Home Club raised the same question. Please check the identity of what I'm saying and until today I haven't won. I've even got informal information that it's been suggested not to talk about it now. It's not outside this house. So it's about the question that's in the jurisdiction of this house. Please respond. Second question. 9.10th on behalf of several MPs: Mr Šarganović, Stanimirović, Mašović and Lolić, I asked the question. Whether and who on behalf of BiH is discussing or negotiating BiH's approach to the Partnership for Peace and whether there is a certain dynamic of approaching the organisation and what our role is in this. To this day, I have not received an answer to that parliamentary question. My new parliamentary question is this. - In the 2001 Representative's House's orientation plan, it is envisioned besides the other adoption of 58 laws, which are proposed by the Council of Ministers, plus 18 laws that are legislators. How much planned have we realized? Whose fault we are no longer and whether or not anyone will be responsible for this. Thank you very much. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5800	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Đedović. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Cuplov, and let the distinguished representative Mr. Osman Brka be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5801	Gentlemen of the chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, dear guests, it is known that BiH carriers have major problems in carrying out international goods transport due to insufficient number of international permits for this transport, as well as due to the lack of transparency in issuing them. For this reason, from the Ministry of Civil Affairs, I would like to answer the following questions: Which BiH companies were granted CENT licences for 2001, as well as basic data on these companies. These basic data relate primarily to the conditions prescribed by international regulations in this area. Do companies, or their transport vehicles, meet these conditions? Not only the conditions, but the eco regulations that are related to this area and whether we respect this regulation plan that are valid in Europe. Which BiH companies were granted a CENT permit for 2002 and, of course, based data in the same sense and from these companies. Which BiH companies were divided into 10% of the one-time international licenses for Austria and Italy, because Austria and Italy were, in fact, the countries through which we most often go to the countries of the Schengen area and also whether the Ministry of Civil Affairs issued these one-time permits in 2002. Also, question number four would be. As the Ministry of Civil Affairs undertakes to provide a number of international transport licences for Italy and Austria, which have been critical for many years. I would like to point out, precisely because of this situation, many BH carriers are dissatisfied and at a high percentage foreign carriers take over a job that could objectively work our houses. In this regard, an outflow of funds from the BiH state is also evident.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5802	I would like to thank Mr. Cuplov's esteemed representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Brka, to prepare the distinguished representative Mrs. Bahrija Osmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5803	Dear Members of Parliament, the Presidency, the College, the guests, the journalists, I will speak and ask one question about which I have already spoken here three times, and yesterday I was tasked with the Human Rights Commission to bring this problem back here, because we have received a memo, which we ourselves are simply unable to answer. What's this 10 about? It's about the events in BiH, after 9/11, and right now, I'm sure there's not a single man in this room who's not because of the need to fight terrorism successfully, but also, no man in this room can certainly be because someone is convicted without his guilt being proven. I'm not a lawyer, but I do know that Aksium is right that no one is guilty until that guilt is proven. It seems that now is another time, so that's why I don't get an answer. I will remind you that I referred the first letter to Mr Lagumdžija and the question from this Parliament on 30.10.2001, that the second letter, i.e. the same question on this note, was sent to Mr Lagumdzija on December 6, 2001, that I received an answer on 12.01, which I am not pleased with at all from the advisers of Mr Lagumdžija. I'll read it here, because here I have it. Dears, In the context of the above-mentioned letter, addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, we would like to inform you that, through a joint co-ordination team to monitor the implementation of the BiH activities plan, the institutions and entities to prevent terrorist acts have been asked by the BiH Ministry of Interior to provide information on their handling by letter from the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights. As soon as we get an answer from the BiH Ministry of Interior, we will forward the same to you. It was signed by Ms. Svjetlana Deraić, adviser to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. This is the answer without any answer. Meanwhile, the Human Rights Commission received another letter from the president of the Helsinki Committee, Mr. Srđan Dizdarević, who reads the following. It's adresirati to me, as president of the Commission, so I'm literally reading. I'm delivering copies of the two solutions signed by Tomislav Limov and Krešimir Zubak. Both solutions are legally unfounded and represent a drastic violation of basic human rights. A solution signed by Tomislav Limov, deputy interior minister of the Federation of BiH, deprives BiH of citizenship: Boude Hadž due to a fundamental suspicion that he committed an attempted crime under Article 68. KZ Federation of BiH. No lawsuit has been filed against the appointed so far. Only a judicial verdict can be the basis for such a solution and not what is stated in the solution. A solution signed by Krešimir Zubak, the human rights minister and refugees, sets out a measure to ban Sabler Lahmer, who is being punished for parole. However, a court case has not been brought against the appointed or has been convicted by law so that such measures can be taken. In addition, it has already been said loudly that the Algerian group will be extorted into the United States. There's no first ground for this. Among other things, the appeal procedure initiated on the basis of these two illegal solutions has not been completed. It reminds me that BiH should not be as a country in which the European Convention on Human Rights applies to deliver anyone to countries where the death penalty is in force, so neither to the United States. Please take all necessary measures to protect the 11 legality of human rights, which are in breach of those solutions and planned moves in the most drastic way, in the signature of Srđan Dizdarević, president of the Helsinki Committee of BiH. Gentlemen of law, the Human Rights Commission is helpless to point anything here and do. We are only able to present to this parliament the situation we are in because we have absolutely no official information from the official authorities of the BiH state. I, as the President of the Commission and the Commission, stood behind it yesterday, believe that this House, or MPs of this House, must not be put into a situation that they do not know about such events anything, what is happening on the ground, we must have answers to that. This is a repeated question to the Council of Ministers, Mr Lagumdžija, that he is obliged to report this parliament, this high-level home of events in BiH. We have to have answers for people, not to turn ourselves into something that just doesn't allow ourselves, to start talking about us in the world as a country where there are no laws, where, say, I've read this from the papers, and if this information is true I don't know right now, but I've read that it's 95 people who, in this way, have taken away citizenship without any evidence, and behind these 90 people have 300 children. Who takes care of those children if people aren't guilty and already convicted of such things. That's why I'm asking the question again, drawing the Council of Ministers to give us answers to questions I've been asking on many occasions, and now the Human Rights Commission is asking them, so we decided yesterday at the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5804	I would like to thank Mr. Brk's esteemed representative. Rijeka has a distinguished representative, Mrs. Bahrija Osmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5805	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow MPs and everyone else, I don't know how much sense it makes to ask this parliamentary question, because I've been asking these MPs, as well as the other MPs, didn't get an answer. But given the matter I want to know, and probably all of you together will be interested in it, I'll still ask a parliamentary question. It's related. When the labour law will finally begin in this country and especially in the part of compulsory insurance. I specifically appeal to the provision of employees to international organisations, such as AJFOR, SFOR and everyone else who works in this country. Any comment on what I've asked you about is excessive. What that would mean for our children, what that would mean for our pensioners, what that would mean for a category of social cases, sick, retarded, and everyone else. I ask that we finally take a position, whether there will be more work in this country for undeclared workers, or for black workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5806	Okay. Thank you. Ambassador Bjelobrk Bjelabrk. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5807	I keep wanting to believe that in the name of human kindness my and our chairman has a great need to keep joking. Otherwise, I can't explain otherwise how some of the things I'm starting in this House, and he's got business obligations, so we've been playing deaf phones for months. First, in response to the parliamentary question I received today for a visit to the RS delegation, my question was misrepresented. I asked two questions. One was addressed to Mr. President of the RS, the Vice-President, the Prime Minister and the President of the RS Assembly, and another issue was addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I really don't know what kind of human effort that should be made first to get first here in the house, secure... the great money that we've got a correct interpretation of the parliamentary issue. Secondly, I get half the answer, in a way that my chairman of my college doesn't blink his eye. The esteemed RS president made an effort to deliver his answer to the ministry. The following three members are neither me nor I have the reasons nor the position of the chairman, according to Article 25(j) who says he is obliged to care for the satisfaction of... MPs' rights. Second, since May 19th, I have been persistently seeking information about events in Banja Luka and Trebinj. I'm telling the public that the chairman is disembarking me. You, Mr. Chairman, have no right to do so. I publicly invite you to stop volunteering for your job. I'm very aware of the words I say here. This is taking too long to tolerate this kind of intrepidity. All my parliamentary rights have been violated. Third, in your archives, my initiative to discuss the state of constitutional change. Except for the curtuasive reaction to my initiative, to this day I have no idea what's going on with my initiative. I'm not gonna ask you any questions this time. Most humanly, I ask you publicly, just do what the Rules of Procedure tells you to do. I'm not asking anything else of you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5808	Thank you, Mr. Bjelobrk. Mr. Miro Grabovac-Grabovac-Titan.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5809	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of MPs, esteemed representatives of the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers, esteemed journalists. I'm going to ask the question, there's not a soul here, or very few people from the Council of Ministers, and I don't think it's good, when it comes to asking at least these parliamentary questions. But since my questions concern the Federation government, it will either be Parliament or it will be through the Council of Ministers. We are witnessing the real floods of various insurance houses offering insurance from car to life insurance and at the same time daily we hear a dissuasion about stalling with the payment of subsequent damage or unfair payments. Playing houses serve with all means to obtain as many insurance companies as possible, such as various discounts, payment delays, gifts in different forms, thus reducing the base for sales tax, which produces a negative 13 impact on the Federation's budget, and endangers those companies that operate legally. I hope that the aim is to provide us with equal conditions for all insurance companies, which meet the conditions for carrying out this activity, whose business policy is based on international insurance... standards and laws on the provision of property and persons, and prevents the problem of paying ex post damage. Taking into account the disabling of financial disorders in the country, taking particular care of the social situation of citizens, I also ask the following question. What insurance companies meet the conditions for carrying out their activities, providing assets and persons, and who oversees their work? Second question. What beneficiaries of the Federation of BiH Budget do not provide property and persons based on bids collected by tender with insurance companies that have the approval to work in the Federation of BiH, and how much funds are allocated to the insurance of the beneficiaries of the Public Enterprises Budget, owned by the Federation of BiH? My second question, given that on several occasions requests from defenders by the defendants of the accused Hrvat who have been imprisoned in the Den Hague for providing insight into the BiH Army's archives of the BiH Army and the BiH MUP, with the aim of collecting documents, which could possibly serve for the purpose of the defence of the defendants which has been ignored so far, and the insight of the BiH Army members, who have also been indicted by the International Court of Justice in Den Hague by Act No 0102-1245/01 of 19 September 2001. I'm asking a question. Which is why the government of the Federation of BiH ignores requests for insight into the requested documents and thus discriminates against the defence of indicted Croats in the Den Hague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5810	Thank you, comrade Grabovac. I'm asking for the service, Secretary of the House. A colleague of Begović Muhamed.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5811	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I have an emergency to answer the questions asked earlier and I have a certain initiative. Last May 17th, I asked five parliamentary questions, and I received an answer to two questions from the Council of Ministers, i.e. competent and completely satisfied, last time I pointed out that with an answer. However, on the first question, it is the implementation of Annex VII I have received a comprehensive response from the refugee ministry and displaced persons. In the meantime, you're witnessing certain cases, which is a threat, I'm undermining a threat to the exiles to return to their hearths and even to attack certain exiles and certain houses. That I don't count the places. You're all witnesses, you've read it, and you've read it about it because, again, this first question. What can be done in a specific case. I suggest that the Ministry of Refugees and displaced persons with the Ministry of Interior and other competent authorities prepare information for this home. What have they done and what measures have they taken to prevent these phenomena? We will never implement Annex VII in 14 of this way, when threats from certain extremist elements or possible groups are made, I don't know for sure. To my second question, I have never received an answer to this day, and it refers to the application of the name cities and settlements. We also have a phenomenon to mark the national signs of individual settlements, cities and settlements without the right of entities or cantons. It seems to me that we have a shortage in our regulations, so I suggest that this issue be considered by the Council of Ministers and that an appropriate act be adopted, i.e. an appropriate law, where it will be determined exactly who is responsible for changing the names of historic places and settlements and cities. I never got an answer to this question until today. The third question of mine was the application of school plans and programs in the education system. Again, we have witnessed that curricula and programmes are applied directly on a local level less than other countries. This has no real right for anyone to behave in such anarchical, or arbitrary manner, because it can be understood that in a certain way they strive to carry out certain and assimilations. I propose that I repeat this question and suggest that the College ask this question to the competent authorities of the Federation, or entities, and give us an appropriate answer to this question. The fourth question I have received, to my great satisfaction, is an exhaustive answer, which is the protection of historical monuments, and I have received an answer and thank the Council of Ministers. The fifth question, the state capital issue, and these are pensioners' homes. In the past, we've built it out of contributions in various ways. So, we haven't solved the ownership status yet, it's state capital, by converting the law, by the Law on Turning Property, by social property into state property, there's still an unresolved issue left. There are now certain tendencies to alienate this capital by selling these objects instead of giving legal status to these facilities. Whether it will be institutions of particular social interest, social and other character or not. I have never received an answer to this question, and I ask that this question be answered. As far as questions are concerned, my initiative now concerns certain issues, issues of efficiency, rationalities and economics in the work of homes, both at home. Since we have an article 44. Rules of Procedure, I propose that the College of this House, together with the College of the House of Nations, consider the possibility of forming joint committees, such as the Constitutional and Legal Commission, to consider whether we need a legislative commission. It can also be one committee of common human rights commissions and other commissions, all in the interest of achieving rationality, efficiency and economics in the work of homes, because this is really not how it works. That's my proposal, and that's my initiative. I'll call back later when it's the agenda issue of the State Service Act, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5812	Thank you very much. Mr. Sead Avdić. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5813	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I think that we are these parliamentary questions and answers in this way leading to our absurdity, and in this context, I cannot help but get the impression that we are slowly pooring and questioning the credibility of this highest law enforcement institute in BiH, its dignity, and I would suggest the following, I suggest. For the next session of the Representative's House, I suggest the following. To include the agenda point thematic. The state and quality of the answer to the parliamentary questions of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. That's one. Until then, to oblige the executive authorities to deliver answers to all the questions raised so far and in this context to try to design thematically and see where we are with this one of the most important parliamentary functions, which we have practically led to absurdities from the aspect, here is today's impact of Members who have asked these questions. Which means, I am pleading on behalf of the preservation of the credibility of this highest institution of the legislative authority to do everything urgently to answer parliamentary questions and to look at the quality, dynamics and way of simply implementing this one of the most important functions of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5814	Thank you. Mr. Šarganović Senad.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5815	The first question is whether there is an oil and oil procurement strategy in BiH at BiH level? Secondly, after the introduction of new measures by the Croatian government related to transport, will oil and oil products in BiH be collected? Third, when will the full reconstruction of the Hungarian railway Split – Zagreb take place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5816	Is anyone else answering? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5817	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished members of the Presidency, Council of Ministers, the College, I will not ask, but only update one request, speak in front of the Foreign Affairs Commission, which is next. What about the response to the Commission's request for foreign affairs sent to the College of the House of Representatives and concerns the Commission's business competence to determine the composition of the ad-hoc delegation of Parliament in interparliamentary and other co-operation in the field of foreign affairs, which has been taken over for a long time by the College of this House. b) The Commission's request for external affairs concerns the business provision, i.e. each delegation shall deliver to the Commission a platform of performance and action five days before its departure. 16 c) The Commission’s request for external affairs also relates to the fact that all delegations provide the Commission with reports on stay and performance, which do not specifically form these ad-hoc, or that delegations provide reports to the College of this House which is therefore not competent. In accordance with Article 128. The Rules of Procedure of the BiH Assembly Parliament's Chamber of Representatives ask that the Foreign Affairs Commission be provided with written answers to the questions asked, and immediately break off the practice. That is one question, or question that has already been asked. The other thing, I'd just, I wouldn't actually ask the question, it's already set, I just didn't get an answer, and now I'm going to speak as a delegate from the space I come from. It refers to a question I asked the Council of Ministers to provide, through the Federal Government's competent resolution ministry, an answer on the activities of unifying health facilities in the city of Mostro and the area of... Canton. I have not received the answer and this question is being obtained at present, because the Federal Ministry of Health, i.e. for Finance, has accepted and recognised two accounts, where it is paying funds, which directly endangers and puts both insurance and health workers in the NH canton area. The personal receipts of wood workers, conditionally put on the Bosniak left side, are about 50% lower than the receiving of health workers on the right, not to mention the first insurance companies, which are equally smaller, which is directly contrary to the universal declaration of human rights, adopted on 10 December '48, both the UN and the European Convention adopted that same year. What I'm saying is that the social situation of health workers is threatened and thus the general strike is announced. We think that the Federal Government, through the Council of Ministers, would, please, suggest, or the Resort Ministry of Finance of Health, have to, in that sense, react urgently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5818	Thank you very much. Ambassador Malkić Abdurahman.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5819	Ladies and gentlemen, since I haven't received an answer to the last question, I'm not going to make anyone particularly ugly here, for the reason that it doesn't have any effect. For today, I have three questions to ask the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers and one question which will be referred through our service to the Federal Government and the fourth item to the draft agenda item, which is an analysis of the impact of the 2001 donor conferences, when, where they were, why some have not been held. Special information on the donor conference of Islamic countries for the return of refugees to BiH, as we have not received information on this. These questions I wouldn't...
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5820	Thank you. Send these questions to the Secretary of the House. Is anyone else answering for word? Here you go. There were certain dilemmas. I'll try to give information without intending to answer to anyone. If there were failures, I can assure you that they were not done on purpose or related to a specific MP, party, club or entity. So there may be technical mistakes, because when we get the parliamentary question, we send it to the 17 Council of Ministers. Whether it was in error communications, it probably is, but it remains to be seen where these mistakes are and to correct them. The information mentioned by his colleague, Bjelobrk, did not, does not concern you, only the information was forwarded by the Council of Ministers 15.1. And I think you have received that information, or the answer to your question. Here is the chairman of the Council of Ministers who signed that information and you can now, if you want to take the opportunity to comment on that information. It's nothing controversial. I think that we can accept the proposal from counterpart Avdić to discuss two points at the next session, so the parliamentary issues with two points of emphasis, which is the state and quality of the answer to parliamentary questions, and that today the House is asking the House to deliver to the MPs the answers to the questions that have been asked, and no answers have been received. That part of the criticism is completely justified. The fact is that some questions have not been answered or answered, and we will update them, and here we are, gentlemen, asking the Service to determine where this didn't happen, where the answers didn't come, because these parliamentary questions were timely, or immediately delivered to the institutions to which they were sent, and at the next session, we will see who denied the MP's answer to the parliamentary question. The question of the quality of the answer can be... some other question is more important that the answer is obtained and whether it is good or not we will discuss it and see how that part of our job is improved and really part of the criticism, which concerns the urgency there, but I assure you that these are technical issues and not political issues and that they are not the result of individual or college behaviour, but technical issues. Please appreciate that. Since no one's answering for a word, I suggest we move on to the 3rd item of the agenda. Ad.3. The joint commission's report on the achievement, I don't think Mr Avdić's proposal should be voted on because there is agreement. Mr. Avdić, are you asking for Dom to plead?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5821	There's no need for the College to accept.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5822	If there's an agreement, I don't think you should. You're complicated about it. Besides, it's going to be the subject of our conversation at an extended college session. So that's part of what we already agreed on at the Expansive College. We're going to the third item of the agenda. Ad.3. A report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of an agreement on the single text of the Law on Industrial Property of BiH, gentlemen of the Parliament, you have received a report. I would ask Mr Avdić, it seems to me that he was in the commission to inform briefly in a few minutes, if he considers that the House of Understanding is needed in a concrete text that has been agreed and if MPs have a report ahead of them. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5823	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in short lines at the 16th session, the House of Representatives passed an Industrial Property Act with six amendments, the House of Peoples adopted the same law on its 12th session with seven amendments. The five amendments were in the same text and it was not disputed only amendments 6 and 7 were controversial. Amendment 6 in the original text, as adopted by the House of Representatives, was adopted by the Joint Commission, so we agreed that it was the text that should be in the Law on Industrial Property, the proposal, that is, the position of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, with the Joint Commission, also adopted Amendment 7 by the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which is before you, that the funds charged on the basis of criminal charges, or criminal charges to be allocated where the proceedings are conducted, means in entities for criminal charges, or at the level of BiH for criminal charges arising from the uniform application of the industrial property law. In this context, after all, the Commission unanimously adopted that the MP to the House of the Peoples of Munib Jusufović, who was on behalf of the House of Nations, did not accept the position that he had brought to the House of Peoples, unanimity, which is Amendment 7 and in this context, is nevertheless a valid position of the Joint Commission and MP Jusufović himself, also, pointed out the principle of the view that this is his position from the House of People's Session and, in this context, it is absolutely not disputed and that we can vote on these seven amendments today, meaning these two, not only once amendment 7 which simply represents the addition of amendments adopted at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5824	Thank you to Mr Avdić for a concrete and clear report, a verbally presented report on the alignment of the text of the BiH industrial property law. Whether the other members of the Commission in front of the House of Representatives want to turn to the House to report to the House. If not, I agree there's no need. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put forward a proposal from the Commission, put on the vote a report on the alignment of the text of the industrial property law in BiH. Who's in favour of accepting the Commission's report? Thank you. Who's against it? Niko. Who's being held back? Niko. It's obviously unanimous. Of the 37 MPs present, 37 MPs voted in favour. I find that a report on the alignment of the text of the industrial property law in BiH has been adopted, in accordance with Article 100(2). Rules of Procedure. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.4. The Commission's report on human rights, immigration, refugees and asylum on the alignment of the Report on visits to a number of municipalities and on the proposal for a conclusion in the Report I give my word to the President of the Commission. Here you go, Mr. Brk. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5825	Dear colleagues, distinguished guests, as you know at last session of the Commission, we have returned the Commission's report to agree on the conclusions. You got the conclusions last time. We had a session yesterday. Last time, as far as I can remember, and I think I remember well, there was a disputed conclusion number five, and around it we broke the spear the most. Not to repeat what happened at the last session, we had a meeting of the Human Rights Commission yesterday, where we reconsidered these conclusions and the situation is as follows. I'll read it. You got it, but I'll read it anyway for the public. A report on the alignment of the draft conclusions in the Commission's report on visits to a number of municipalities in BiH. At the 11th session, held on 15 January 2001, the Commission on Human Rights of Immigration and Asylum, reconsidered the proposal for conclusions submitted to the House for adoption with a report on visits to a number of municipalities corresponding to the House's conclusion, following a discussion at the 18th session, held on 28 December 2001. Most of the members of the Commission have fully supported the proposed conclusions as proposed in the Report. Commission member and Vice-President Miloš Jovanović challenged the conclusions of 3.4.5 and 8. In this respect, it proposed that the Commission be specifically informed of each proposed conclusion. By voting on each individual, the Commission unanimously supported the conclusions under number 1,2.6. And the 7th with 7 votes in favour and one against are the supported conclusions under Boro 3,4,5. and 8. Therefore, with 7 votes in favour and one against, the Commission adopted a proposal for a conclusion that they were contained in the Commission's report on visits to a number of municipalities, and proposes to the House to adopt them together with the Commission's report on visits to a number of municipalities. Not to read the conclusions. Last time we read them, and if there is something controversial, you all have this text of conclusions in front of you and you know what Mr. Jovanović's disputation is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5826	Thank you very much. Whether or not one of the members of the Commission is answering for a word. Is it you, is it? Here you are, Mr Stokić, of course other MPs can, but I think we should give priority to the members of the Commission if that is what they want.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5827	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I just want to say that yesterday I was not in a position to attend this committee's work on a family death case, and I was also sick. I want to repeat what I said at the last session. Of these eight conclusions, I support four and I don't support four. I do not support the conclusions under regular number 3,4,5. and 8. Not to read them now, you have these conclusions and that is why I suggest, because these conclusions in this form of all eight will not be adopted, that we vote individually on each conclusion and those who pass, that it be accepted on the reports of this committee, the conclusions of this commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5828	Thank you, Mr. Stokić. Who else is answering for a word? Here's your colleague, Cuplov. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5829	I must say that, as a member of the Commission, we have put each point on the vote on a regular basis. The report makes it clear how certain points are voted. The proposal to ignore the Commission's report here and to break it down to members is absolutely not my view of the matter report of the Commission. You here have the Commission's report as it is. You have the right to adopt it or not to adopt it, but the attempt, in fact, of our full report to overload it into parts of certain conclusions will not reflect the state of our considerations and conclusions that are given in the text section. I think it would be... absolutely make sense to work in the Commission, practically, lose. We'd be in a position to treat certain parts, which are actually the same matter as the whole, here as separate. Or our report would lose completely to integrity and purpose.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5830	Thank you. Who's on the phone? Here you go. Bahrija Osmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5831	As a member of the Human Rights Commission, I would like to say the following. We have already analyzed our report in detail and in the first debate, done an extremely well job, and I do not know how much Parliament's MPs will appreciate it, but we have made a great effort in the truth. Secondly, we returned it to the alignment and, yesterday, discussed it in detail again. There were eight members on our committee. So, of a total of nine. There were seven members, and we declared ourselves uniquely to adopt all conclusions. So, one was against and a gentleman appeared for justifiable reasons he wasn't present for yesterday's session, and I want to believe it's justified, but here's the statement. So, out of the nine members of the Commission, seven unanimously accepted the conclusions and two against, and what now to declare ourselves individually if we were working as the Commission. Then what would be the point of this commission's work? I remain in favour of the report with the proposed proposals, not individually.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5832	Who's on the phone? Mr. Željko Bilbija and Mr. Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5833	I would sort of separate the commission's report and the conclusions, because if we don't adopt and adopt the conclusions, or if we adopt them, then that's also Dom's conclusions. Before the vote, I'm going to ask for a break, but since Mr. Brka asked for a word, so before the vote, I'm asking for a break, because I thought no one would ask for a word again, ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5834	Please, every club of MPs has the right to seek a break and according to the Rules of Procedure gets it. Here you go, buddy brkati. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5835	I apologize, I have self-esteemed that it is good again for the public and for the journalists to read the conclusions that we unanimously adopted and let it be known which conclusions people have observations about. Because that's the way it is. The first conclusion was unanimously adopted. It is necessary, as soon as possible, to implement the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people throughout BiH. There's no dilemma. The second is tasked by the Council of Ministers to launch an initiative to harmonise entity laws on refugees and displaced persons, as well as by harmonising these laws with the state law on refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH. The sixth, it is necessary to establish adequate co-operation between the Federation's Ministry of Health and the Brcko District in order to address the health protection of the population of the entity's border areas, and the 7th, at the level of the Federation of BiH, it is necessary to pass a law on the rights of fighters and at the level of canton and municipalities to provide equal financial treatment to the HVO and Army of BiH, in order to reduce the housing problems of these categories of the population. gospoda Jovanović and Mr. Stokić, who came out here earlier to say that he is joining Mr. Jovanović, have objections to the following conclusions, of which the other members of the Commission, you yourself heard cannot give up. That's three, I'm reading it. It is up to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees to launch an initiative to establish a single BiH-level database on refugees and displaced persons, as well as data on submitted claims for the return of private property and dwellings on which there is a tenant first, as well as data on returnees that have been introduced in the possession of the property. Four, it is necessary to establish an estate fund for refugees and displaced persons at the Central Bank of BiH, which is also an obligation under the Dayton Agreement. The fund would be charged from entity budgets, like from dedicated donations. The Fund would finance the return as well as the lending of self-employment and employment returnees, which would contribute to a sustainable return. This is also the definition of the Dayton Agreement underlining. Five, it is necessary to coordinate national representation in the executive judicial authority as well as in the media on the basis of the '91 census. This is fully in line with the point of one that has not been observed. Conclusion number eight. It is recommended that entity fighters' ministries establish a co-ordination body, which would co-ordinate the rights of the Federation of BiH and RS's fighting categories. These are the differences. You decide for yourself, and I'd like to ask the media to publish their findings as they are. I would ask them to know the findings of the Human Rights Commission and refugees. Thank you very much. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5836	Thank you, Comrade brkati. It is not disputed that all the material delivered to the MPs today is available to the public. brkati only intervened so that it wouldn't be misunderstood. The material is available to the public.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5837	I didn't doubt you, God forbid.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5838	Thank you very much. And my colleague, Banjac, was a colleague of Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5839	Dear gentlemen, honored guests, first I would like to welcome you and wish you a successful work for all of us. Gentlemen of the Commission, I was going to commend you, but I can't, because now the model of praise is equal to the model of bad life. They thank us for our executive authority, and the people are getting harder and harder to live, so I can't boast because this is a good thing that you do, but just so it doesn't happen the same way, I can't brag, so we don't live worse than that praise. As far as the Commission's work is concerned, I think that this is the way to proceed, but I just don't understand, last time I gave you the most appropriate instructions written, some of you supported here but I don't change anything in your conclusions and I don't see your well-meaningness when it comes to me, for what I fully accept that you are well-intentioned. Because, gentlemen, it would have been malicious of me to say I'm not suggesting anything of this is wrong. I suggested improving the text, so even with some improvements like the Commission and agreed that you did not take the liberty and the right to at least consider whether any of the things that I had delivered last time in writing had been considered. My remarks still apply to the same because you didn't appreciate anything. So, I'd like to improve the content of the conclusions, but God forbid I'd like to throw them away. In conclusion number 3. I would just absolutely add after the point of the following word: “Using data from entity ministries”. So I'm not going to read the conclusion. You know why I'm saying this. Don't wave your head off, Mr. brkati, because I'm afraid you didn't listen to me. So why am I suggesting this? I know you're in Macedonia that would be good, but this way, since it is, and I'd like to confirm it's going. That way, why I'm looking for this. We have data from the entity departments for refugees and displaced persons all of them. Does this mean that we will create some new database at BiH level that will not respect entity databases on this issue. I think it could create confusion, and for that very reason alone, I'm supplementing this conclusion with it. So, if we don't go, we can do audits, supplementals, but I would like to be at BiH level, at the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons, first database, using entity databases and, of course, constantly refreshing and supplementing that database. That was my goal of supplementation. Nothing else was my goal. That's for conclusion number three. When it comes to conclusion number four. I propose that the following be left out of this conclusion only the words “entity budgets, as well as from” and the text of dedicated donations remains, because, please, there are entity ministries so it is entirely unnatural for those 23 to transfer their budget to someone else and they do the same jobs, but I think it is good to make a budget at BiH level for dedicated donations, which does not exclude the possibility of donors being the entities mentioned here, but donors. So, I want through donor revenues, because thank God this is going to be a temporary fund, so one day, if God does, there will be no need for that fund when and for that reason, I think it should be, so the source of these revenues are intended donations. That's why I'm suggesting it. Conclusion number five. I consider the politicization of a good piece of work, and that's why I'd change it, and I think it should read it the following way. It is necessary to include returnees in the regular procedure in the bodies of the institution in the places of former, pre-war residence. If that is the goal, that goal can only apply to returnees.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5840	Excuse me, Mr. Banjac. It's a technical question. Do you have a letter to give us or should I write?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5841	Of course I do. I always have everything. I'll be happy to give the text, because in the end I care about getting the results of this. So my intention in this conclusion is to tell exactly who we want and who we want to classify and not make it a politicization of any kind. So, I'm not gonna waste any time on any further explanations. When it comes to conclusion number eight. I would change it a little if it had its contents and it was completely clear so it would read like this – it is recommended to the entity ministries that have jurisdiction in the portfolio for issues of fighters, disabled and civilian war victims to establish co-operation in co-ordination of the rights of these categories of population in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska. Wait, I'm not finished yet. Take it easy. Well. So, please, I would like to have an argument that we are discussing these improvements and I consider them improvements and to come to a unique conclusion text. Gentlemen, the conclusions should be enforceable. It is a waste of our conclusion and papers if they will not be implemented and if they will not be respected and there will be no results. I consider these conclusions that I have completed to be enforceable and will be ready for a constructive dialogue with those who have not understood these supplements.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5842	Here you go. Please. Easy, I'm begging you. We'll take the turn. I ask the President of the Commission to appreciate that he will certainly get his word. If you do, you have the advantage, Mr. President. If you want, I'll give you my word, if you want to play the line. Here are your replica buddies.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5843	I don't know if it's going to be a classic replica, but I really need to thank Mr. Banjac. Somehow it began so nicely, so it was a real pleasure to hear, 24 first commend us well, and then later on, it's such a nice lesson, but I'm going to ask Mr. Banjac -- if I were your student and you would tell me everything about this pay phone, please nice and I'll write it all down and transfer it to paper and offer it as conclusions. I, and then I argue responsibly that you would find an objection to the conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5844	Please, Mr. Banjac has a right to the replica, because he's named by name and last name. Will he take advantage of that right that's his business.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5845	I'd just like a little bit. Let's talk about content that's better, and let's let what a Banjac would do to a student or a student.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5846	Thank you for asking me to turn off my cell phones. After my colleague, Bahrija Osmanović, I received word from Mr. Brka. Is there anyone before that? A colleague of Jovanović's before that, then Đedović. I apologize, my colleague Jovanović asked for a word a long time ago, and now I've been suggested. All right.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5847	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I have only tried to be careful on the Commission this time, because I think the last time I took advantage of my vote incorrectly and my discussion on the Commission. As far as the conclusions under regular number 3 are concerned, I don't want to read them and under regular number 8. I think they, with little technical corrections, can be accepted. As for the conclusion under regular number 4, I said on the Commission, I do not have the right to vote for something why, as we and as the Commission, and probably this assembly, it means it cannot order entity ministries, meaning that entity budgets allocate funds to this fund. I don't think what's not realistic is what I didn't want to vote for, because exactly what Mr. Banjac was saying, so entities single out funds for returnees and refugees so this would be some extra burden that I don't have the right to do. So I just didn't have the right to vote. I also think that this conclusion, under regular number five, is unrealistic, I think it's simply difficult to implement at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5848	Thank you very much. Mr. Đedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5849	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I support all the conclusions with the fact that, at the conclusion of regular number 8, I have one question – do these categories include categories of people's defence? I mean, it's a tough question. Believe it or not in the country there are people outside the law, paraplegics without health care, people without any rights, and this is about 25 alignment of martial arts categories at the state level. I'm asking if it means those people, too. It's a purely humanitarian, human, and at least a political issue. The children of the dead are not guilty and should not suffer, especially if all is united. That's why I'm appealing to get into these conclusions and that, if that's not the case so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5850	Thank you very much, colleague Đedović. A colleague of Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5851	I think we're about these conclusions and too much let's say we politicized the situation. In fact, we already practice these conclusions in practical life in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In fact, I don't see why conclusion number three would be controversial when we have already passed a law in the CIPS area that will give us a piece of this data, and it's normal that we will have an existing human rights ministry to obtain existing documentation, or information from entity ministries. He can't get anywhere on the side, or catch some information in the air about that. The second question raised by the disputed point, i.e. the conclusion number 4. It is defined by a framework agreement, namely the Dayton Agreement, and our conclusion here that we will adopt seems to me that it is not commanded by entities, simply shows our goodwill in this direction, and this issue should be resolved with the entity in line with the possibilities to participate in funding the fund that should have been formed so far. Unfortunately not. And question number 8, or conclusion number 8, why not try to co-ordinate the right of residence at the level of the Bosnia and Herzegovina state, and among other things, this has been a matter of health rights, social and health rights and other rights that can be used by citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5852	Is anyone else answering for word? The President of the Commission will be given his word. Please be my guest. The President of the Commission can only wait for Mr Lolić to come forward, so let me give you my word, because certain questions have been addressed to the Commission and MPs would probably ask for answers. Here's my colleague Lolić. And who else is answering for your word, please? Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5853	Dear colleagues, I'll be on behalf of the club. In the meantime, we've been acting out, and now it's up to us to decide what we want. If we want this report to pass then we are ready to resign, what Mr. Banjac has proposed is acceptable and our club will vote for all the conclusions with these remarks, as far as we do not respect these four conclusions without these remarks we are not ready to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5854	Thank you. Just a fellow Grabovac. Here you go. Member of the Commission. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5855	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, I cannot accept certain things as Vice-President of the Commission. Some might accept it, but some can't. Conclusion number 3 which proposed the amendment and addition of Mr Banjac is not at all controversial and I believe that the Commission would not be controversial when it comes to the issue, because there is no other data other than the data that entities and counties have. Then it should be said that both entity and county will be used. So add word and county and is not at all controversial, because these are the data they have at the level of county and entity. When it comes to conclusion number four, I think it is good to set up this fund if entities already have such a thing at their level and separate it is not at all possible and it is not at all controversial that part of it is being filled out of donations and may be said from the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It means that the item is also foreseen in the Bosnia and Herzegovina budget. When it comes to conclusion number 5, I cannot give up on it at all and it is not political, because it does not speak at all about what level it is. Is it the level of the municipality, the county, or is it the level of the entity or is it the level of the state. I can't let the representatives of those I represent go on that basis then the Croats in Sarajevo really wouldn't be anything, because it's very little returned and they couldn't be represented in institutions in the way that's spoken here. So the minimum is what it's based on and Dejton is a minimum that it's a 91st-year census, and therefore I believe that Mr. Banjac doesn't touch this fifth conclusion at all on the part that might be bothering Republika Srpska, because he's not talking about the entity of either the state or the county. I think he's acceptable. When it comes to conclusion number eight, I believe that coordination in NGOs already exists. These are the meanings of the fighting population that are members of the World Veteran Federation, among us there is already this coordination, but there is no coordination that should be in the case of medical treatment, anything like that between the Federation's resolute ministries and the level of Republika Srpska which is not at all established by any executive body. And I believe that nothing here is disputed in this conclusion number four, because there is no body being established here, but to establish coordination to be better maybe coordination and subordination in relation to these two resolution ministries. So I can discuss Article 3 on conclusion 3 and conclusion 4, conclusion 5, I think it is general and does not talk about this and I suggest that my friend Banjac take a closer look at conclusion number 5 and it does not slow down at all when it comes to entities, or it is the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or it is a county, or it is a municipality. And this would lead to a much worse situation if you were to say on the way back. That would be a much worse position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5856	Mr. Banjac, right on the line.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5857	I'm not comfortable, of course, I accept Mr. Grabovac this desire to see you. I'll krenuće from the beginning. I don't really understand the Commission's conclusion that you're not going to extend the right of coordination to both civilian victims of war and disabled people. I don't understand you. The whole point of what I suggested is to expand co-operation, not to abolish. But that's not true in Republika Srpska. I said between the departments of power, not asking if it was one or three. Watch out, amongst the competent ministries in the crowd. So I personally think that it should be extended not only to fighters, but to civilian victims of war and disabled people. And I don't see any reason for you people to fight it. I don't get it, bro. When it comes to conclusion number five. Gentlemen, tell me, what did you want with this? You are the Commission for Refugees and Displaced Persons, and you are involved in politicizing the problem by not mentioning in the conclusion of a single gesture a single word part of the sentence of exactly who you stand for. I only read what you wrote. You wrote – it is necessary to coordinate national representation in the executive and judicial authorities as well as in the media on the basis of the census. Please, it's a purely political conclusion that has nothing to do with the problem you want to deal with. You apply what the conclusions apply and therefore I suggest that it is necessary to include returnees in the regular procedure in the authorities and institutions in the pre-war areas. And what else would you gentlemen do? The returnee has to become an subject there to do something, to decide something, because it's my wish. And you're looking for politicization without mentioning the absolute returnees in that conclusion of yours. You understand. It's something else you want. I'd like to tell you what you wanted with conclusion number five. That's what I'm interested in. And what Mr. Grabovac, I absolutely support what you say in front of the Constitution and our laws is regulated by both parity and structure and why I would now politicize it here. It's all regulated and it doesn't occur to me to disrupt what's already been achieved, hardly achieved. So I don't want to disturb any gestures. So I agree with you, Mr. Grabovac, but we just didn't understand what it was about... what you're about. I think we understand each other if we sit down and explain these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5858	There's a replica, Mr. Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5859	I don't know if we understand each other, I believe we are. What's this about? Come on when it comes to that part of conclusion number eight, it is not controversial to expand, but they are different, here at least in the Federation of the two resolution ministries and the problem is that the Ministry of Defence is not part of the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons at the Federation level. If these two ministries are to be said or between the departments of power, I don't think it would be at all controversial for the Commission. That is the essence of coordinating the better and co-ordination of these restoring ministries. When it comes to conclusion number five, I don't see him as politicizing and I don't see him as a political message. Here's the thing. It is unacceptable that in Tuzla, where I went where there are Croats, where the Croats stayed, but are not represented according to the 91st year list or as many of them were there. So it doesn't mean anything, they didn't even leave that 28 space, but they're not represented, and that's quite clear why. When it comes to only Sarajevo. I also speak that part, because it is quite visible with representatives of the Croatian people. And the same thing I'm talking about is the same thing they suggested for article 3. The conclusion number 3 was proposed by representatives of Doboj institutions. The establishment of this, common database works easier and better records who came back, who really introduced the property is different. Someone issues solutions, and has not evicted from other assets, can be recovered because you needed them, which I see means that this part of the conclusion number three is no dispute, but the fifth conclusion is general and I believe it is based solely and the Dayton Peace Agreement is based entirely on the 91st-year situation, at least for now. And that is why it would not be equally represented on federal television when it comes to the part, or on TV BiH, which is set up by equal representatives of all nations, and does not necessarily mean that they must be returnees. Or why we should be returnees if they were returned to Sarajevo, and if only you could work, someone else who is not from Sarajevo could. So we're bonding exclusively to this 91st part, and I think he's being framed in Dayton, and I think everything else would be something that would be bad, and it would be a bad mockery and a bad public. I suggest that this conclusion number five remain the same because it doesn't speak at what level it needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5860	Thank you to the President of the Commission. We haven't given a word in a long time, Mrs. Kamberović answered. You're obviously, if I see Mr. brkati gentlemanly in the mood. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5861	Ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed presidency, I have to report primarily as a man listening to this debate today about these conclusions and the Commission's report, and I have to say that when any discussion is held about refugees, displaced persons, then we come across a sea of obstacles to adoption, decision-making and that. First I want to tell you something, what you know very well. Winter is, people are hungry, at –15 degrees live still in tents, no water, no electricity, no living conditions. And we're here to discuss whether to put an end to I. Please conclude number five that you say is politicized, believe that those people in the field have long been politicized. So I ask you to solve these problems in a human way, not to discuss here whether something is right or wrong about a point in the letter and. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5862	Thank you. The President of the Commission, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5863	I sometimes get the impression that sometimes it's important to be against something even if there's no reason. Conclusion number three. We're fine here, very clearly told this to Mr. Banjac now. Mr. Banjac, with great respect for you, we are nowhere here 29 we have not said that there will be no use to the existing knowledge they have in this country, whether it's in entities, whether it's in cantons, whether it's in municipalities, I don't know, but it doesn't say here it won't be used. So absolutely that body will use existing knowledge in Bosnia and Herzegovina in all places where it can get information about it will be used. So I don't see any need to be afraid of being used. Normally, it's meant to be used. I don't see the reason it means that there's something I need to, there's really no reason. That is to say that what we already know will be used. Furthermore, it is necessary to establish a refugee property fund. That's this point 4. I will never accept, in fact, that this House, or the Council of Ministers at the state level, can have a certain impact on entity governments or cantons. I won't accept it, because then we wouldn't have a purpose, then we shouldn't exist as Parliament and we shouldn't exist as the Council of Ministers. In this conclusion, we said very clearly that some things should be better coordinated, if you remember, and it wasn't long ago, so there was a long time ago our first report when I mentioned here from Kotor Varosh that the most responsible people in that municipality don't know who grants them donations in which local community. If we had it encrypted on the level, it couldn't happen. It just couldn't happen if they didn't know who was bringing them donations and who wasn't bringing them. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, believe a lot is said about corruption. I believe the biggest source of corruption here is that you don't know what anyone's doing. We, in a certain way, could see this better for the benefit of all citizens especially returnees in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I don't see any reason why that body and I don't see the reason, that federal governments and the cantonal ministries shouldn't be involved, that one coordination is made that doesn't exist and clearly missing. It's obvious she's missing. So that's what these two questions are about. As far as 5 is concerned, I don't accept that this is politicized. I think that's very clear, very clear, and that number five should stay this way. And for number eight, I have Mr. Banjac and Mr. Đedović's answer. I am always trying to make it an interest of all the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, I try and try, and everyone seems to me, if not everyone, the vast majority of the members of this committee. Even so, we have done many useful things unanimously. This is the first time something didn't go smoothly, it didn't go unanimously. And when it comes to 8th, I believe Đedović this applies to all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We didn't go into details now. This parliament should stand behind every citizen in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Whoever's guilty or not guilty will be in court. Whoever's not to blame isn't guilty, is it? So there aren't any citizens left out here. We take care of every citizen in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's part of the answer to your question. So that's what you mean. And here I can't, on behalf of the Commission, say on my own behalf, accept Mr. Banjac's suggestion to expand to number eight, because here besides this, he put the disabled and the civilian victims of the war here. Isn't that right, Mr. Banjac? Yes, it is. That's where I accept that we may have been unspeakable. The rest of me as a man I said everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5864	Thank you. Here, you're right. Mr. Buturović. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5865	Well, here I am, since I'm going out the second time, I would just say something, not as a member of the Commission, but as an MP, as a man, as a citizen. I think that's what we're showing today, and it's realising in practice that human rights are being drastically violated here. Let's exercise the right to return, right, here's the talk as a doctor, health care, etc. The basic guarantee of human rights is the state as a sovereign unit. Please. That's why today, which is so, entities have taken over a lot of the rights that belong to the state, we have a situation that in the field of health and health care enormously flourishing epidemics of all kinds of diseases and we can't get the support of world organisations, world health organizations because they know the state, they don't know the entities. Please stress this problem, and we can't get support for fighting AIDS, AIDS drug users, mass infectious diseases, mass malignancies, etc. We are looming in problems, and the Charter, the International Charter of Human Rights, agreed, means a declaration with two agreements that we are also signatories to recognise, which are the International Agreement on Environmental and Social and Cultural Rights and the International Civil Political Rights Agreement, together with that declaration that I mentioned earlier, constitute an international Charter of Human Rights that must be respected by every member state of the UN, and this is our country of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's what I'm appealing to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5866	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for word? Here you go, colleague Majdandžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5867	The Honorable Presidency, esteemed guests, MPs, I would appeal and expect Mr Banjac, the honourable representative to accept Commission conclusion number 5, which is clear and explicit and who should not be changed at all, and he says much, but by accepting the elections here tomorrow at the Republika Srpska Assembly where I will be there too, so that we can perform there together responsiblely why 46,000 workers who are financed from the budget do not have a single percentage of Serbian nationality. What's that? To fight, not just verbally accept. We want to make human rights, and that's the first real work to be realised properly in practice. So, not only do we accept it, but we do it right, European, modern, and what we are obliged to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5868	Thank you, fellow Majdančić, just a little bit, my remark to lower our tone. The debate showed different attitudes, but the tone, it wasn't high. And please, let's move on. Excuse me, Comrade Banjac, you have, you're called, you want a word? Okay. A colleague, Đedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5869	I would just like to say about Mr. Brk's response that I'm glad that it is, but I would also invite you as the President of the Commission to help these people get any of the envisaged rights, because they are currently out of the law in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5870	Thank you. I don't see anyone answering their word anymore. The MPs' club asked for a break. Break 10 minutes, which means we're continuing 15 to 2. Thank you very much. Let's stick to break time in the future. This time it wasn't the case and the request is that we stick to that deal. A club representing Mr. Bilbi as the club's chief asked for a break. Do you want to explain what you're asking for a break?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5871	Before I say what I am and why I asked for a break, I would suggest that we at least buy an hour and every time we say when the session continues. We're really done and we're 10 minutes away, but we've been sitting here for almost an hour and we're wasting our time. It's no use to all of us. As far as the conclusions are concerned, it is in the view that one part of the conclusion can be supported, one part of the conclusions can be supported with some minor changes, but the Club cannot support conclusion 5, so I suggest that we make an individual statement about the conclusions and get the results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5872	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5873	Only for a little while, I apologize, the Commission's report has one failure, possibly a failure from home in the election of the Commission. The Commission has 7 members from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and 2 members from Republika Srpska, which I think is not according to the Rules of Procedure, and has to address the problem and make some adjustments so that both the Republika Srpska and the Federation are equally represented, and 2 members from Republika Srpska have been voted in fact in the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5874	Thank you very much. We had, we have a proposal for a report on the alignment of the proposal for conclusions on the Commission's report on visits to a number of municipalities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have two proposals presented in the debate. I am telling the proposal chronologically, the proposal by Member Stokić to vote individually on the conclusions and the proposal by MP Mirko Banjac to implement the amendments and supplement the proposal for the conclusions given in the report. And we need to make a statement about these proposals. That's why I'd go chronologically and of course on the report. Of course, the report must certainly be made known, it is not disputed. The proposals refer to the report. If Mr Stokić and Mr Banjac were accepted, the text of the report would also be amended. So these proposals must go before the report, because if we vote on the report then these proposals are impossible to vote on afterwards. So I'm asking you now that we don't ask questions about it. We've all heard 32 proposals, I'd just put it to a vote and we'd go on to not waste any more time on the debates that are unnecessary, because we need to make clear by voting on every proposal presented in the debate. So we had Mr Stokić's first proposal to vote individually on the conclusions. The Rules of Procedure are not precise, that is the problem, indeed the Rules of Procedure does not define this matter, there is no precision. We watched that. It can be interpreted and it can't. So I would pray that we do not open up this debate, that we simply resolve this issue with the attitude of the House. So who's in favour of Mr Stokić's proposal to vote individually on the conclusions. Please, who's in? Did the service get a record? I'm asking the service to be a little faster than the MPs. Who's against it, please? I ask the messengers to plead. Thank you. Who's restrained? Of the 39 present for 11 versus 21, abstention 7. The proposal hasn't been adopted. Mr. Banjac's proposal. We can vote there in two ways. From point to point or for a whole proposal. I think it would be more practical, Mr. Banjac, for a whole proposal. You're the promoter. Do you insist on that? Single or complete?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5875	I'm not a fan of the package, I'm afraid it's a broken opinion, good people come up with... [[no microphone, speaking from place]]
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5876	Here you go, Mr. Banjac, you're the promoter, and I've asked you to plead with me on how to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5877	Dear colleagues and colleagues, as one politician has said, I'm really worried if we are coming here to accept someone's opinion as a package. I'd like to tell you as a man that I'm not coming here with anyone's opinion, but with my own and that, in accordance with the arguments I hear, I'm forming my position. That's why I wouldn't suggest as a man to talk about, to vote on my 4-5 proposals as a whole. It's not the devil that everybody doesn't answer. Let's start to respect one another based on what's fact. It's really a fact, not based on what anyone wears as a prejudice about Mirko Banjac, or Mirko Banjac about someone else. I'm asking you to change our attitudes a little bit, at least in that direction. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5878	Thank you. So you're staying. It's okay, I thought. You have that right, individual vote on dots. Point 3. I'll read Mr. Banjac's proposal, then I'd like to make a statement afterwards. I'm asking Mr. Banjac if I'm wrong to correct me, because it's hand-written. It's possible I'm misreading it. It is up to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees to launch an initiative to establish a single database at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina on refugees and displaced persons, as well as data on the claims submitted for the return of private property and housing rights, as well as data on returnees introduced in the possession of the property. Now here would be Mr. Banjac's proposal -- point using entity ministry data. Did I give you a good interpretation? Please, who's in favour of Mr. Banjac's proposal? Okay, we'll put it to a vote. We're asking you to vote this. Everything's gonna be okay. Who's in? No one's gonna get hurt. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'd like a voter's report. Of the 39 present 11 for, 20 against, a abstention of four MPs. The proposal relating to point 3 of the conclusion is not accepted. Point 4 of the proposal is to leave out the words from this attitude – from the entity budgets as from. I'll pročitati to read Mr. Banjac's proposal. It is necessary to establish an estate fund for refugees and displaced persons at the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is also an obligation under the Dayton Agreement. The fund would be filled with dedicated donations. The Fund would finance the return as well as the lending of self-employment and employment returns, which would contribute to a sustainable return. I ask the MPs to state who's in favor of the motion? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. Of the 39 present, 11 for, 24 v, abstention 4. I find that the proposal relating to point 4 of the conclusion is not accepted. Point 5 of Mr. Banjac's proposal. It is necessary to include returnees in the regular procedure in the authorities and institutions in the pre-war areas. If I read it correctly. Who's up for Mr. Banjac's proposal? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? 34 I find that out of 39 MPs 11 voted in favour, 23 against, and four abstentions. I find point 5's suggestion not accepted. There's one more point left. That's point 8. I'll pročitaći what the proposal says. It is recommended that entity ministries that have jurisdiction in the resolution on issues of disabled and civilian war victims establish co-operation of these categories, in coordinating these categories of population in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska. I'm sorry it's such a problem, but it's handwritten so technically hard to understand, to read. I don't think I should repeat the Members of Parliament. Who's to plead? Thank you. Who's against it? The abstentions? I ask the messengers who are abstentioned to plead abstention. Thank you. Present 39, for 23, versus 8, abstention 7. And obviously it takes an entity vote. I'd like to make a statement on the entities. Who's in favour of Republika Srpska? Thank you. I ask the BiH Federation MPs to declare who's in favour? Thank you. I'd like a voter's report. 12 MPs from Republika Srpska were in favour, 11 for the Federation of BiH. I find that Mr Banjac's proposal relating to point 8 has been adopted and becomes an integral part of the report we are voting on. I'm putting Mr. Grabovac's proposal to the vote. I'm asking Mr. Grabovac to help me. Mr. Grabovac has withdrawn his proposal, thank you for a constructive approach. Is there another proposal, were there any proposals we didn't put to the vote? It's possible, I don't want to make a mistake. Were there any proposals by MPs who didn't put them to the vote? It's not. No Niko's answering for a word. Please put to the vote a report on the alignment of the draft conclusions in the Commission's report on visits to a number of municipalities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's in favour of adopting the Commission's report? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? No abstention, only counterpart Lolić forgot to put down his ballot. It takes an ethnic vote. Please, who's from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina for? Thank you. Who's from Republika Srpska for? Thank you. 39 MPs present. 28 votes for, against 11. Entire vote from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 25, from Republika Srpska for 3.. I konstatuj that the Commission's report on the alignment of the proposal for a conclusion on the Commission's report on visits to a number of municipalities in Bosnia and Herzegovina is not accepted. He's going for a match. Thank you. 35 Let's go to the next item on the agenda. That's the point under the regular number Ad. 5. Proposal for a law on the defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina Second reading. We have the text of the law here, we have the commission's report. Let me remind you that the Proposal for a Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted at the 18th session of December 2001 in the first reading. Gentlemen, you have received a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Please, members of the Commission, or the chairman of the Commission, do they want to address the House? Thank you. Please present representatives of the Council of Ministers do they want to address the House? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. No Niko's answering for a hearing. I am putting the draft law on the defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the vote. Please, gentlemen, who is in favour of Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence law? Thank you. Who's against it? Please, gentlemen, follow who's against you. Niko. Who is restrained by the proposal for a law on the defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina? I ask the messengers to make themselves known. Present in 39 for 29, abstention 10, and as we've calculated, we don't need an entity vote. Are we right? You're looking for an entity vote. Let's go. Of course. It's got to go according to the Rules of Procedure. We don't have an entity majority. There's no entity majority. I beg you, it's expressed. Please request an entity vote. We're going to an entity vote. That request has been made. Here you go, Mrs. Todorović. I'm asking the Secretary of the House of Representatives if he wants to explain, if we don't go according to demands. Here you go, secretary. Mrs. Todorović, please explain.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5879	I didn't file the voting data, but I already know by heart, but I would only ask you to listen to me - Article 64. The Rules of Procedure – the House's decision is made by the majority of the votes of the MPs who are present and who vote. The abstentions are listed in the quorum and are not added to the votes that are in favour, or against. MPs will make the most of their efforts to include at least one-third of each entity's territory MPs unless otherwise provided for by the Constitution of BiH and this Rules of Procedure. We in a particular case had 29 for and needed an entity majority. I'm sorry, I've been deluded.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5880	Thank you, Secretary Home. It's clear to me that an entity vote is needed, that's quite clear. We have to have an entity, it has to be an entity minimum. That's the 1/3 she obviously is. It's not a dispute. 36 I suggest we go to an entity vote. Who's from the Federation of BiH. I beg the messengers indeed. Who is from the Federation of BiH for the Proposal for a Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Please, I'm asking the service to count the votes. Thank you. Who's from Republika Srpska for? Thank you. I'd like a voter's report. Please, I'm asking you to. A total of 39 MPs for 29, abstention 10. Entity vote by the Federation of BiH for 25, Republika Srpska for 3. There's no entity majority. It's not adopted. It's going to be a match. Thank you very much. Let's move on. Ad. Six. Proposal for a law on free zones in Bosnia and Herzegovina Second reading. We have gentlemen of the bill in front of us. We have a report from the committee in charge. The bill was adopted in the first reading at the 18th session of 28.12.2001. You have received a report from the Commission responsible for foreign trade and customs. Does the chairman of the Commission want to address the House? No, thank you. Does anyone outside the Council of Ministers want to speak to the House? No, thank you. I am opening a debate with gentlemen, the Proposal for a Law on Free Zones in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Bilbija.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5881	Dear gentlemen, believe me, I'm already a little tired and I can't follow there, so I'm going to ask for help from someone from the Council of Ministers. As far as I know, the House of Peoples adopted this text, actually passed this law. There were certain guidelines there, repairs compared to the previous law sought by the international community, and now I'm not sure if the text we have and the text adopted by the House of Peoples is identical and it would be good not to waste time on someone from the Council of Ministers, the promoter explains if it is identical to that law, if it is not the same to make an effort, if we should and take a short break, not a 10-minute break that lasts an hour and a half. Let's take a short break and get this law in line with the law adopted by the House of Peoples and simply round this law and take it off the agenda because it's probably been pulling on us for a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5882	Thank you. Here you go. We'll also hear the Council of Ministers' position. Any other MPs answer for word? Is the Council of Ministers gonna need a break, or can you give me an answer right now? If you want a break, we can give it away. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5883	I will ask the chairman and MPs to perhaps take advantage of the opportunity of a brief break to check, but I assume you have the same text that was adopted at the House of Peoples because it has been long enough since the Council of Ministers adopted the amendments and referred to the parliamentary procedure. Yes, it is. I suppose it's the same text, but maybe we can take a short break and check it out.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5884	Is a 15-minute break enough? Excuse me. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5885	I suggest that they prepare it for us, and we move on. [[speaks from place]]
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5886	It's possible we don't lose. You've earned every commendation for this proposal, not because you're from my club, but who you really are. So we're going to move to the next point, and we're going to ask the Council of Ministers when he's done informing us to get back to this point on the agenda. Gentlemen, let's move on. Ad. Seven. Proposal for a state service law in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina First reading. Let me just remind you of the basic facts. The bill promoter is the Council of Ministers. It was sent to lawmakers on 2 October 2001. The Constitutional and Legal Commission, whose report was submitted to you on 30 November, is in charge. The bill was withdrawn from the 18th session on the proposal of the Proposer. I won't say it again. We all know what the reason was. Gentlemen, we have here the position of the OHR, which has been forwarded to the Assembly, to the MPs. Did you get the OHR's position on this bill? So we find that MPs have been informed, have received views of the OHR's political department. Does anyone on behalf of the Commission or anyone on behalf of the Commission want to address the House? I ask the President of the Commission to plead. No, thank you. I pray the Council of Ministers, does anyone in front of the Council of Ministers want to address the House of Representatives? No, I'm opening a debate. Here's a proposal for a law on state service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. First reading. Here's your friend, Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5887	Dear gentlemen, since working on this law has reached a high degree of consent, it might be good if there is any possibility from the OHR to explain the reasons for the request, because the Commission has unanimously adopted and we are now in place, unanimously adopting amendments and final text, and we are now in a very delicate situation. And I think it would be good to have someone explain to us now 38 additionally in front of the OHR this letter sent to the members of the Kolegijum, because believe me, we are now in a very difficult position. So we reached an absolute agreement at the commission stage, and now we're in front of one in such a situation as to move on. In order not to have a problem with that, I think it would be a good additional clarification. Secondly, I don't think I should, I'm just using this opportunity because I didn't come out early to say one more sentence. Let's not run to the alignment procedure. I think some people here act like they do when they vote with abstention to let the law get in line like it's a disaster. It's not a disaster. No, that law has entered into an agreement that about some other little things we agree the law will pass. That's why I think it's better to go to the alignment procedure than to the rejection procedure. That's why I'm asking everyone present to understand this alignment procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5888	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for word? Here you go. You're taking my word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5889	We won't have a chance to change the law today, but I want to say a few of my remarks that the Proposer should include. It says here that according to the proposals, let's say that members of the Parliamentary Assembly have the opportunity to have advisers. Whether or not everyone or just a particular one is Article 4 of point 2 so that it can be rectified. Then in Article 2 he would also suggest that the composition of the state service reflects the national but also the gender structure of the 91st census. Then the civil servant is impartial and particularly does not seek and accept for himself or his relatives any benefit. I don't think he's looking for any benefits, not just for himself or for his relatives. Because that's what he's gonna show for being impartial. There is then a part of the law says one termology that is inappropriate at this time for such a law. Namely, the civil servant – says he must not use or take up real estate. The time of occupation, the robbery has passed, but the use of other people's property based on any solutions. And there's one here, what a leave and how long it's been treated to be the absence of a civil servant who's been elected to certain positions. In fact, you know that the electoral procedure runs just 5 months before the election, or 4 months. Turns out he's five or six months away. And let's just say something like that wasn't regulated for secretaries, assistant minister. What happens to him when he completes his term of office, can he return to the post of secretary, or assistant minister? He can't. The rights and obligations of advisers are to resign among others. I don't see the need for him to resign, but from whoever chose him, or named him, he's asking for a solution. And on, I've been trying in this request how precise it is to account for a civil servant's salary. I couldn't, although it seems to me that I was prone to these mathematical combinations on the basis of the proposed billing of wages to a civil servant. 39 And finally, at the beginning of the application of this law, the territorial representation of civil servants in institutions will be two-thirds of the Federation of BiH and one-third of Republika Srpska. It seems to me that she is incompatible with this forwardly said right, which composition or structure should have a state institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5890	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for word? Here you go. Mr. Đedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5891	Gentlemen chaired by fellow Members, I have one intervention in Article 2. Employment and representation. Item 2 says – the composition of the state service reflects the national structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina's population according to the latest census. Now we're adopting some laws and we're looking for the last 91st list somewhere. I think we have to figure it out in principle, either, or stick to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5892	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for your word? No, I don't. It is a matter of first reading, which means that today's debate concerns the necessity of the principles on which the proposal for a law is based according to the Commission's report. I'll put it on, if, since no one is answering my word, I'm voting on the commission's report on the Bill of State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina as part of the first reading. Please, who's in? I ask the MPs to follow the session. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Niko. Who's being held back? Niko. Obviously unanimous. I'd like accurate information, please. Of the 37 MPs, 37 voted yes. I agree that a report on the proposal for a law on state service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been accepted. The law was passed in the first reading. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad. 8. Proposal for a law on copyright and related rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina First reading. Let me remind you, the promoter is the Council of Ministers. A report on the draft law was submitted to MPs on 4 September 2001. The draft law was withdrawn from the 15th session of 24 October 2001 on the proposal of the legislator. It's a first-reading debate. You received the text of the law and you received a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission as the committee responsible. Does the President of the Commission or anyone from the Commission want to address the House? No, I don't. I'd like to ask the Council of Ministers if anyone from the Council of Ministers would like to speak to the House? No, I don't. 40 we're opening a debate. Can I help you, gentlemen, to the Members of Parliament, who's answering for your word? Obviously, we're a little tired. Niko one's answering for a word? I'm closing the debate. I ask the messengers to plead. Who is for the report on the Proposed Law on Copyright and Related Rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Niko. Who's being held back? Niko. Unanimity of 38 present, 38 for. I find that a report on the Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights has been adopted in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that the law passed in the first reading. Ad. Nine. Proposal for a consumer protection law in Bosnia and Herzegovina First reading. Just to remind you, the committee's report was delivered to MPs on September 4, 2001. And this law has been withdrawn from the 15th session on the proposal of the Proposer. Gentlemen, you have received the draft law, you have received a report on the proposal for a consumer protection law in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is the Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum. It says that the Commission unanimously adopted the bill. I would like to ask the President of the Commission if he wishes to speak to you, Mr brkati, whether you would like to address the House on behalf of the Commission. Thank you. Council of Ministers, do you want to speak? No, I don't. We're opening a debate. Here you go, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5893	Dear gentlemen, since this is the first reading I appeal to the Proposer to consider and improve the text of the law in principle. The authorities envisaged to protect consumers at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the same name are set up at entity level with clear co-ordination. Nothing beyond that. I will, of course, Glasać in the first reading and expect your understanding to improve the text in that direction.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5894	Thank you. ...time interval between the first and second readings for further political consultations. That's not controversial. Is anyone else answering for a word? No thanks. I'm closing the debate. I am putting on the vote of the Human Rights Commission's proposal to emigrate the refugee and asylum report on the proposal for a consumer protection law in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? No Niko da help the service. Yes, you are against colleague Šarganović. You didn't, by accident. Okay. 41 Who is abstention? Niko. So unanimous. 38 MPs present, 38 for. I agree that a report on the proposal for a consumer protection law in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been unanimously accepted. We're going to point 10 in the first reading so there's no misunderstanding. Ad. Ten. The proposal for a law on administrative disputes between Bosnia and Herzegovina is also the first reading. Let me remind you. The bill promoter is the Council of Ministers. It was addressed to lawmakers on 13 December 2001. A report by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which is the committee responsible, was distributed to lawmakers on 30 November 2001. The Constitutional and Legal Commission report said that the Commission unanimously adopted the proposal for a law on administrative disputes between Bosnia and Herzegovina with the amendments adopted. Does the President of the Commission, Mr Banjac, want to address the House? No, I don't. Anybody in front of the Council of Ministers? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Cupplow, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5895	In a finding presented by the chairman, I would like to point out that the Law on administrative disputes dealing with and judicial protection of the rights of citizens and institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina is one of the laws that has been in parliamentary procedure for a very long time. Unfortunately, today we had a situation again that since 1999, when the Law on Administrative Procedures appeared, Dr Silajdžić proposed, there was also the Law on Defence which we returned to reconciliation. I am afraid that from 1999 to 2002 we already have two and a half years since the appearance of these laws in the parliamentary procedure that this way Parliament will not be able to frame basic laws that practically serve the benefit of all citizens of this country. And I don't see, I have to use this current exit to say the reasons why the law on defence would be put into a situation to return to parliamentary procedure and make it difficult to pass that law and in this context I appeal to Parliament to have this fact in mind and that any changes that this law could suffer allow all clubs and MPs to do so by interventions to the law and that the procedure for the adoption of this law goes through one normal course. I appeal in this regard to the desire that, in a certain way, a good trend that Parliament has recently had to adopt some legal solutions is passed on to these laws that represent very important laws for all of us in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5896	Thank you, Mr. Cuplov, I must visit you, I must remind the MPs that there would be no confusion. The draft law on administrative disputes between Bosnia and Herzegovina is on the agenda, so it is not a law on defence. This is about late intervention, so you need to keep in mind that there is no substitute for 42 whose law is at stake. So the proposal for a law on administrative disputes between Bosnia and Herzegovina. Is anyone else answering for word? No, I don't. Here, the Constitutional and Legal Commission found that there were several legal and technical inconsistencies in the text, and it suggested the Council of Ministers to make certain corrections. I ask the Council of Ministers to have this in mind, because obviously the Commission adopted these recommendations unanimously. And to the Council of Ministers, this is a very important law, this is not a political law, this is a law that must be legally very high-quality, so we don't have any big problems. That is why I urge you once again in collaboration with experts, the biggest administrative experts in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to carry out further consultations and to see if there is anything that needs to be fixed. So it's not politics, it's just a law that will depend on a lot of issues, which is more professional, not political law. Therefore, a request from the Council of Ministers to respect that approach. Let it be my suggestion as chairmanship connected so that I am still a man who deals with law, I am a lawyer and that I know the importance of this law and only in this sense please and understand. Me, since no one's answering for a word anymore, I'm putting it to the vote. Who's answering for a word? Proposal for a law on administrative disputes. Here's my colleague, Mijatović. I apologize for my objection to the Council of Ministers was addressed, because I thought the debate was over and I ask you to consider it exclusively as someone who is a professor at Law School. Here's my colleague, Mijatović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5897	I absolutely support everything you've said, Mr. Chairman, but I don't think you've got that right. In fact, I think it would be far greater effects if we were to complement these laws, or observe them in packages. And I think that's what the gentleman wanted to say. Because the Law on Administrative Procedure, the Law on Administrative Disputes, the Law on Defence, one without another simply cannot in any state. We sometimes come into a situation where, independently of each other, we adopt it and miss it and bring quality solutions. So I'd just have a suggestion on this, in addition to what you're quite rightly saying, that those laws that are simply interdependent in that way and we're adopting and we're going to make far less of a failure. Because I'm just going to explain, I'm not going to complicate the situation, why I've been held back by the Law of Defence. There is an x of illogicality there, it is undeniable that the law should be in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because as soon as there's an institution has to have defenders, but it can't be there in Article 4, here's to me mentioning it now, so let's agree to it, it says that the attorney and his deputies on their proposal will be resolved. It's nowhere in the world, you know. My suggestion was, I don't think he'd be spreading right now if I needed these laws that were simply complementary, which represent one whole of the procedure to push. I don't think there would be a wrong solution by individual adoption.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5898	Thank you, fellow Mijatović. Allow me a brief clarification. A colleague of Cuplov was talking about the Law of Defence. I realized, and I let my colleague Cupl speak even though he broke the Rules of Procedure. For the same reason that you have come out, it is quite clear that these laws, which are to be observed as a whole, and that a failure has been made, but not by this home, but a failure has been made by the promoters, because these laws were to go at the same time, and that is even so important to the reasons for the institutions and the citizens that we could do one session at which only these laws would be held and we would open a broad discussion with the consultations of experts. Because if we make mistakes here, we're going to create big problems for this country. And it's not about politics, it's about and it's about using the knowledge of experts who know administrative law. And I agree with my colleague Cuplow. You are if I understand you, colleague Cuplov, well said you're asking him not to get along so you don't go to home. I think you're right. We, if we agree, need to go to the House, to the House, because these are so important laws for the citizens and for the institutions that Dom says his word. So I can promise on behalf of the College that this will work. We won't do anything that won't be transparent and there won't be a chance for the House to make a statement about these laws. Because I repeat, it's not political laws, it's laws regarding professions. I think we're done with this part of the job and no one's answering for a word anymore. We have a report on the proposal for a law on administrative disputes between Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'll put him to a vote with respect to these suggestions given by the MPs. I don't want to say it again. Please, who is for the Report on the Proposal for a Law on Administrative Disputes of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Thank you. Who's against it? No Niko kao's restrained? Niko. The law was passed unanimously. But we need to figure out 38 of those present, 37 of them. I'm asking an MP who voted 38, because this is how we really create a service problem that doesn't know if she counted the votes correctly. If you're against voting against it. If you are abstentions, be abstentions, but please vote. I don't know who 38 is. I can't see who 38 is from here. Please give me a score. I'm begging you. I don't choose MP rights, but it's a service problem, please. Please, it's the right thing for a man not to vote, but there are service problems. Then the vote can be challenged, the quorum can be challenged. Please, let's move on. Since no one, please, has been challenged, I ask of 38 present to vote 37. It is not disputed that the Commission's Report on the Proposal for a Law on Administrative Disputes of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been accepted, and what I said is understood only as my appeal that we do not create service problems. Thank you. I find that in the first reading this bill has passed. Now we've reached point 11. Giving consent to a number of international agreements I have received information from the resolute minister, Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, that the Council of Ministers, that it has held consultations and that the Council of Ministers, or Resolute Minister, is ready to address the House of Representatives. I ask you to consider it also as a request from the minister and as a gentleman. Here you go, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5899	I thank the chairman. The esteemed presidency and MPs allow me to begin by thanking MP Banjac for the constructive proposals relating to the proposal for a law on the protection of the consumer of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We will until the next reading, the second reading of this law certainly take this useful suggestion into account. When it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Free Zones in Bosnia and Herzegovina, you have the same text that was adopted in the House of Peoples before you. Therefore, the House of Representatives may be made known about this text.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5900	If I understand you correctly, I ask you, because you are silently speaking from such a temperament because sounding is a problem one sentence – is the same text of the law that I need today to plead with the text of the law adopted at the House of Peoples?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5901	Identical text, Free Zones Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5902	Thank you. Is there any other information, please? Do MPs have other information? Professional service.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5903	I only have a short one.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5904	Here you go, Mrs. Todorović. He's got information. Here you are, Madam Secretary of the House. It's a matter of fact, a determination of facts. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5905	Just a moment to try and make a deal here so we don't leave home without having the same attitudes. According to a report submitted by the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission of the House of Representatives, it has not adopted any amendments. Therefore, according to the House of Representatives, this law goes without amendments. According to a report delivered to us by the People's House, he adopted two more amendments along with this law, according to the report. So there aren't any mistakes I'm going to go to the office right now and bring in those amendments, so we can try to get along.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5906	Thank you, so that we don't raise any further questions, these are just facts, I suggest nothing else until the Secretary of the House determines the actual state of affairs is possible, 45 can happen that there was a difference, because there are a lot of laws ahead of us, there are a lot of amendments and it needs to be understood that such oversights are possible. Of course, technical considerations. I suggest we go to the next point. Do you agree? Let's go. Gentlemen of the Parliament. The next point is Ad. 11. Giving consent to the ratification of a series of agreements The first agreement that lies ahead is a) the agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Austria on improving and protecting investments. We should give consent to ratification if we feel it should be given. Whether or not the President of the Commission wishes to address it. No, I don't. Council of Ministers. No, I don't. Thank you. Do any of the MPs want to? I'm opening a debate. Is he answering for a word? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. I ask the messengers to plead. Who is to accept the agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Austria on improving and protecting investments? Thank you. Who's against it? Niko. Who's restrained? Niko. So of the MPs present, they all voted yes. 37 MPs present 37 votes in favour. I agree that an agreement has been given to ratify the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Austria on the promotion and protection of investments. My request to the MPs to be patient and not leave the session so we don't have to redefine if there's a quorum. I see there's a quorum from here. So it seems to me that it's not a problem, and the data itself shows. The second agreement is b) an agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Italy on incentives and protection of investments. Does the Commission want to talk? No, I don't. Council of Ministers, please Council of Ministers, would you like to speak? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Niko one's answering for a word. I ask the messengers to plead. Who is in favour of accepting the agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Italy on incentive and protection of investments? Thank you. Who's against it? Niko. Who's restrained? Niko. Obviously unanimous. 38 present 37 for. 46 I find that the agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Italy on incentives and protection of investments has been adopted. The next agreement is c) the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on cooperation and mutual assistance in customs matters. Does the Commission want to speak, President of the Commission? No, I don't. A representative of the Council of Ministers? No, I don't. Who's answering for a word? Niko. I find the debate is over. I ask the messengers to plead. Who is the agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on co-operation and mutual assistance in customs matters? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Niko. I'm being unanimous. All 38 present deputies voted in favour. I find that there is a consensus on the ratification of this contract. The next agreement is d) an agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Slovenia on reciprocal improvement and protection of investments. Does the President of the Commission want to speak? No, I don't. Council of Ministers? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Whoever answers the word. Here you go, Mr. Brk.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5907	I think someone was protesting when I got out. I'll do it very briefly. I have a specific question, and it's about if you remember the last time we passed the Customs Tariff Act. I had one amendment at the time, so I subsequently withdrew it so that the law would pass so as not to create a problem, and that was the amendment concerning visas, visa regimes for us and the states of Slovenia. In fact, it is quite clear to you that our businessmen have huge problems when they travel to Slovenia, and it is also quite clear to us that Slovenia is picking up half of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And our businessmen can't go any worse. While this is being adopted here, is there anyone in this country who can stand in the protection of our businessmen who can't even get a visa to go to Slovenia. I'll be against this one right here. I'll vote for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5908	Thank you, Mr. brkati. I think the answer to your question can be given by a representative of the Council of Ministers. I'd like representatives of the Council of Ministers, if you will, Mr. Brka has asked. It is an agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina, I ask MPs for a little patience and to turn off their cell phones. The agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Slovenia on reciprocal improvement and protection of investments. 47 kolega. Brka asked the question of the visa regime. Our businessmen have problems with visas when they go to Slovenia. What can you tell us about it? Here you go, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5909	I thank the chairman. I respect the suggestion and the remarks made by MEPs Brk, but I must say that this cannot very much relate to a concrete agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Slovenia on reciprocal improvement and protection of investment. So this is about investment. The visa regime regulates a completely different area. Perhaps, given that I had the opportunity to once see the amendment and suggestions and remarks of MPs to the Brk. We gave it as a resolute ministry and a response and an interpretation. This was about the conclusion of the Free Trade Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Slovenia. I think any slowdown in these economic agreements can only slow down both the regulation and the visa regime and everything else. And to condition one another, I think we'd pay a far higher price. In any case, I appreciate the argument of the Brk MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5910	Thank you. Mr. Brk, you heard the answer. Thank you. If I may suggest, it may be necessary to ask the visa regime for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because apparently the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are not in a good position because of the visa regime towards Bosnia and Herzegovina and perhaps we could ask that question, but it would, in fact, be addressed to the foreign ministry. That's the question. If MPs want, they can ask him, and we can expect him, he would ask the representatives of the Council of Ministers to write this question down and eventually give us an answer at the next session or second session when preparing, because the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are alive interested in this issue and not only them but also businessmen of course who are citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I put it to a vote, since no one is answering the word of the agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Slovenia on reciprocal improvement and protection of investment. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? - One, to help the administration who's restrained? - Niko. I find that for an agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Slovenia on the reciprocal improvement and protection of investments of 35 voted 34 in favour and 1 against I Konstatuj that the agreement has been adopted. Gentlemen, we have the next item e) The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court This is a very important issue for both Bosnia and Herzegovina and other countries. 48 So please do the president of the committee in charge want to speak? No thanks. Does anyone in front of the Council of Ministers want to address the House of Representatives? Is anyone answering for a word? It is the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court as a permanent court, a very important issue for the world, not just for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you, no one's answering for a word. I'm putting it to a vote. Gentlemen, please pay attention. Who is to give consent to the ratification of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? No one against, no one abstention. 36 MPs present, 36 votes in favour. I find that this proposal concerning the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court has been unanimously adopted. We move to the next point of f) of the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime Resorna Commission wants to address it? No, I don't. Council of Ministers? No, I don't. Who's answering for a word? Niko. I find the debate is over. I ask the MPs to plead. Who is to give consent to ratification of the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime? Thank you. Who's against it? Niko. Who's being held back? Niko. I'm being unanimous. 36 votes, 36 for. I find that consent has been given to ratifying the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime. g) Protocol against the smuggling of migrants by land, sea and air, supplementing the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime Does the President of the Commission wish to address it? No, I don't. A representative of the Council of Ministers? No, I don't. Are any of the MPs answering for a word? I'm saying no. The debate is closed. Who's in favor of accepting this protocol? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find no one against, no one abstention. Unanimity for. 36 MPs voted, 36 for it. I understand this protocol has been adopted. 49 h) Protocol to prevent and punish trafficking in human beings, especially women and children, which is complemented by the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, is obviously one whole here. Is anyone answering for a word? Let's cut short, because it's one whole, we've already made our point. It's normal that we'll accept this, too, if we've been there for that. Who's in favor of accepting this protocol? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? 36 MPs voted, 36 for it. Obviously we're all against fighting, we're all in the fight against organized crime. I beg you gentlemen, Mrs. Todorović and Mr. Kragulj and Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, it's difficult, I have to call you sorry. I'm afraid the MPs can't hear me, so they'll vote wrong. Let's move on. Please. i) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Swiss Federal Council on international road transport of passengers and goods Does the Commission want to address? No, I don't. Council of Ministers? No, I don't. Are any of the MPs answering for a word? Niko. Debate closed. I ask the messengers to plead. Who's in favor of accepting the agreement? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Niko. Od 36 MPs, all 36 MPs voted in favour. I agree that an agreement has been unanimously adopted between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Swiss Federal Council on international road transport of passengers and goods. j) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic official documents Does the Commission want to address? No, I don't. Council of Ministers? No, I don't. Are any of the MPs answering for a word? No, I don't. The debate is closed. I'm putting it to a vote. Which one of the MPs for the Agreement is the agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic official documents? 50 Who's against it? Slowly, I must respect the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Please, gentlemen of the service. All right, one against. Who's restrained? Thank you. You didn't come back for a word in good time. Of the 36 MPs 35 voted in favour, against 1. I konstatuj that the agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic official documents has been adopted. k) Agreement between the state of Kuwait and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the signing and reciprocal protection of investments Does the President of the Commission, representative of the Council of Ministers, wish to address it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Are any of the MPs answering for a word? No, I don't. The debate is closed. I'm putting it to a vote. Who is the agreement between the state of Kuwait and Bosnia and Herzegovina on signing and reciprocal investment protection? Thank you. Who's against it? Niko. Who's restrained? Niko. I find 37 MPs unanimously voted in favour and agreed to ratify the Kuwait-BiH Agreement on Signing and Reciprocal Protection of Investments. Gentlemen, there is one job left, one contract, that is l) A free trade agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Slovenia Does the President of the Commission want to address it? No, I don't. Does the Council of Ministers want to address the House of Representatives? No, I don't. Are any of the MPs answering for a word? Here you go, buddy brkati. I'm asking the MPs for a little more patience. Let's go efficiently, rationally. We're not wasting any time but to maintain a dignified level of today's session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5911	I'm sorry. Thank God it's over, so you can last another minute. I really don't get it. It is incomprehensible that we can make a free trade agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Slovenia and that our businessmen cannot travel up there normally. I don't understand our Council of Ministers who can stand behind this proposal. Yes, please. These aren't parliamentary questions, but I'll take the moment and ask for it. I am now asking the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or the Council of Ministers, to report here – what kind of visa regime we have with all European and non-European states, i.e. which citizens, which 51 states in Bosnia come as they will and buy Bosnia as they will and prevent us from coming up. I can't be for this, and I'll never be.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5912	Thank you, colleague brkati, but I think the representatives of the Council of Ministers are my suggestion that this information be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5913	I don't think they've done anything about it, and they're distracting us here that I need to raise my hand for this. I'm not gonna raise my hand for this.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5914	Thank you. A request to the Council of Ministers to forward that information to us is accepted and we will get that. Please, who's answering for a word? Niko. I understand the debate is closed. I ask the MPs to declare who is in favour of giving consent to the ratification of the Free Trade Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Slovenia? Thank you. Who's against it? Four against, let me help you. Are you abstentioned or against? - 5 is against it. Are you against it or are you abstentioned? Who's restrained, please? Two. Please. The debate is over, the vote is over. I can only determine the results of the vote. Thirty-seven present. For 32, v. 4, abstention 1. That's how I got the results of the vote. Niko one contests these results of the vote. He's not arguing. I agree that the Treaty on Free Trade between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Slovenia has been ratified. We have given consent, but it can also be asked to the Presidency, because it can, it now has the right to ratify or not. So this isn't the end of the story. You can address the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency with these arguments. Gentlemen, we have one item left on the agenda. Please, I don't have a hammer, so I can't knock, but I'll knock. I'd be banging on the table not on you, so I can't bang, 'cause I don't have a hammer, please. But I ask the MPs for patience. I know we're tired, but I can't take a break. I can't take a break for any known reason. So I'd like to ask the representative of the Resort Ministry, Deputy Minister of Mr Kragulj to take his word for it. Here you go, Mr. Kragulj. It is a proposal for a law on free zones in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5915	Gentlemen, honourable fellow ministers, I think that when it comes to this law on free zones, there has been a certain misunderstanding here. Here this law was passed on to the House of Peoples in both readings, and now it has been laid out as far as I know, since in the meantime I attended one of the committees of the other home that came here to question the identity of texts, or amendments adopted at the House of Peoples. I, meanwhile, took advantage of the opportunity to look at the text received by MPs participating in today's House of Representatives session. They received the last text from 24.10.2001. under the regular number of protocols 217-1/01 and this text which was received fully corresponds to the text adopted on the House of Peoples. I don't know what reason it is for the people's home. I don't know if at that time the House of Peoples went faster than the House of Representatives in adoption, or reading this law on the first and second occasions. He probably had the text of 24 April last year and it was likely an amendment given the Council of Ministers' request to accept the International Monetary Fund's objections, he probably also considered it essential to refer through amendments as amendments to the text he adopted on 24 April. However, since I also leveled during the day the text of representatives, or MPs of the House of Representatives, with the text adopted on the House of Peoples, is fully identical. I propose that the text you have, which has been in place since 24.10.2001, where certain remarks have been incorporated in Articles 5, which is to define exactly what the free zone can deal with and, above all, the production activity and the service and commercial activity that are only in function and production activities and in Article 31, where it is also practical to comply with Article 5 where, in relation to the previous solutions of the total value in paragraphs 1 and 2, it is said that the conditions are met if, i.e., the conditions are lost unless 75% of the total value of the product goods leaving the free zone are met. That is to say in line with Article 5, what and what it can do, what it is allowed to do, which is allowed to deal with the free zone. These are texts that were practically adopted by the House of People and I don't think there's any reason why today in the same text not to adopt the law at this home. That's how much I've had. I can explain it and read the details of what the differences are, etc. You have exactly, as far as I have checked the text that was adopted on the House of Peoples, which has been agreed, where the IMF's observations have been incorporated and where they are practically accepted as the whole text that is before you today. There's so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5916	Thank you. The consultations showed the following. Based on the consultation and alignment of the text between the representatives of the Council of Ministers and the Secretarys of the House of Information and from the Council of Ministers and from the Secretary of the House are identical, and they say that this text is identical to the text adopted by the House of Peoples. There's something else that's very important. This text that is before us passed the commission phase in the 53 House of Representatives. It means that there are business assumptions that we can adopt. If I understand correctly, I ask that someone correct me, if I have sinned. There is therefore no interference with the procedure or materiality of the text, to approach the adoption of the Proposition of Free Zones Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I repeat in the second reading. This is a second reading. Final reading. Do you gentlemen agree with what I said? Do you have any objections? I'm asking Secretary Home if you're clear that the texts are identical? Are you sure or is he having a dilemma? Please. Stop. If you're having dilemmas, we need to take off for the next session. If you don't have any dilemmas, we can approach adoption. Is he having a dilemma or not having a dilemma? Please, therefore, if there is no dilemma, and I do not think we can access the vote with the conclusion that the comparison of the texts found to be identical texts, and this text before us passed the commission phase, the procedure. They don't exist. Here you go, colleague Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5917	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished MPs, I don't want to work here as if I'm at the market, whether this is it or not. I want to vote on the text of the law which is in the procedure of the House of Representatives and which has passed all the procedure. If there's any difference, please. We'll agree. Don't make it here now. I love it, I like this Council of Ministers nice, nice, all of it, but don't let us have a hard time here right now. We're voting on the text that went through the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-16-0.u5918	Thank you, colleague Ljubić. You hereby supported those MPs who chose this Council of Ministers. Thank you for your support. We may be more critical of them than you are, but good. Thank you very much for the joke. I ask the messengers to plead. Who's in? Thank you. Please, gentlemen, I will not close the session until you have a seat. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I figure no one's against it, no one's abstention. Please report 39 votes, 39 for. Unanimity adopted. Thank you. Please, gentlemen, one request before I close the session. The President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission has asked me to inform you, to inform the members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission to stay after this session here, because they have a long and hard time to work. Gentlemen, I'm finishing the session. Thank you for your attention. The seat's finished at 4:00.
