ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2051	Dear delegates, envoys, guests, Excellencys, esteemed media representatives, I am opening the 16th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The sitting is attended by 15 delegates – the envoy of which 5 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the order of the Croatian people and 5 from the order of the Serb people. Since we have a quorum, we can make decisions, let me suggest the next agenda. Is there a need to read the agenda? You got him on the bench. One item of the agenda was left out compared to seven days ago. It is, in fact, that the resolution, which he proposed, that the proposed delegate Špirić was not discussed at the Commission, so that we do not have the opinion of the Commission, and that new two points of the agenda have been added, given that from the House of Representatives, we have been informed directly before this session that they have adopted the Law on the Use and Protection of the Red Cross/Crist and the names of the Red Cross/Crist Society in a different form, that a committee is being formed and, of course, the report of those committees of the two previous laws adopted in different texts relating to reconciliation. I'm opening a debate over the agenda. Who's answering for a word? I would ask that your discussions be concise, with a concrete proposal to supplement the agenda and to organise in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for 3 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2052	Gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers, guests, media representatives, I would only like to give the notice orally, why there is a resolution proposed by Mr Nikola Špirić on the agenda of today's session, for precise information. The Commission had on the agenda this resolution, which is foreseen in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Peoples and on the basis of the decision of the House of Peoples to consider this text of the resolution. The Commission opened the debate and did not complete the debate. They have two reasons. The first reason Mr Nikola Špirić was not present at this session and the members of the Commission expressed interest in looking more closely at the contents of the text with the author of the resolution, and therefore to come out with an opinion on this resolution. The second reason is that, in connection with this resolution in the course of the debate, different positions of the members of the Commission have taken place in principle regarding what is called the text of the resolution, and we most kindly wanted to invite Mr Špirić to decide, in the next session of the Commission, on this resolution, on the preparation of suggestions and proposals and proposals from his colleagues within the Commission itself. So I would like to say that the Commission has not simply completed its work and it is up to the House to decide what it will do. As 2 you know by the Rules of Procedure, it is always possible for the College to interpret the Rules of Procedure, in the way that it is considered to be excessive. So it's not that we haven't considered this document. There were two objective reasons, and I'd like to ask you to keep in mind when pleading against the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2053	I thank you for further clarification, because it has no opinion of the competent commission requested by... Home. I thank you for these additional clarifications that may remove some misunderstandings. Is anyone else answering for word? Mr. Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2054	Madam Chairman, the Honorable Chairman of the Presidency, esteemed members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests. In this Spahić, I would like to simply draw attention to something that is not well-versed against the declared stories of all the important political factors in BiH when it comes to solving the problem of refugees and displaced persons and the realization of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement. The motion for a resolution on laying down guidelines for resolving the issue of refugees from Croatia to BiH is a matter burdened by BiH. I offered a short resolution five and a half months ago. Since I've been absent twice, I wasn't present on the Constitutional-First Commission. The Constitutional First Commission has had the opportunity to reject the resolution to improve it to suggest, to assess whether it has a constitutional basis, but I think this is the way of playing through the Constitutional First Commission with the most vulnerable category, and these are refugees and displaced in BiH is not good, so I am asking, of course, the business matter of every delegate to offer the House a resolution for adoption, and the thing is that the House accepts, rejects, amends, installs suggestions, etc. I think because of our responsibility to this category of BiH population, it is not smart, nor politically wise, and it is especially not useful to postpone in this way, to seek the presence of the motion for a resolution, which is not, of course, prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. So I'm asking this point to be placed in the agenda. I'm here today to give an interpretation, not just of the Constitutional First Commission, but of my fellow delegates in this home. The final resolution is open to all useful suggestions that will solve the problem of the refugees and displaced. So, there's no reason for us to outwit ourselves through this problem, or there's a proposal to publicly remove this resolution and dissociation. So we have to have the strength either for one or for the other, because I don't see the third time. It is too transparent that this resolution lies in parliamentary procedure for five months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2055	Thank you. So this is about a proposal to supplement the agenda agreed by the College, and so we will procedurally and businessly declare ourselves. Who else is answering for a word? Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2056	Gentlemen, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the honourable ministers, fellow delegates, on today's agenda there is a series of, or one number of resolutions, which we 3 received a few days ago, so I'm curious, or I have one question. Was there a resolution on the constitutional-legal committee that last time was the topic of those discussions here at home. So did the Constitutional and Legal Commission discuss a resolution on the protection of Bosnia and Herzegovina's legal and political subjectivity, Mr Nikola Špirić, and if it did not discuss why it did not put the resolution on the agenda? Given that, obviously, there was no will to discuss this resolution at the commission stage, and we know what was the subject of the debate at the time. I wouldn't want to get too much more of that, or I wouldn't want to get any further about it. But it is evident that because of our inertness to discuss some issues openly, the process is inevitably moving on. Afterwards Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament...
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2057	I'd like to ask you to limit yourself to the agenda. I don't mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2058	Mr. Tomac made a statement that continued what we actually suggested should be condemned. This is why I propose that today, if we are unable to discuss the resolution, we read according to this statement by Mr Tomac, through a statement by the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, in which the House of Peoples would characterise the statement of the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament as a meddling in the domestic affairs of the country, and in this regard expects the public apology of Mr Tomac. Secondly, to ask the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the most urgent condemnation of such behaviour, in a manner common in diplomatic practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2059	I'd like to know if there are any other proposals to supplement the agenda, so we'll open the debate. Stay put, just to define Novakovic's discussion. Novakovic's discussion referred to the question. Why the resolution proposed by Mr Špirić, I mean at the previous session of the House, was not discussed on the commission and that was the first part of the discussion. The second, if I understand, you're suggesting either the conclusions. I don't know if you don't want me to suggest, but anything you need to agree to with the Rules of Procedure to suggest the agenda point, you need to have written material. There won't be any consideration or vote. On the first question, I'll answer you. The Commission did not simply consider that I, as chairman, did not refer it to the Commission, and I did not refer it because Dom did not make such a decision. If you remember the outcome of the House vote, he did not adopt to refer it to the commission. So I'd like to take that question down as a question. It's business, don't go into content. Here you go, Mr. Jusufović, then Mr. Spahić. We can't put this on the agenda at all, unless you deliver this to the delegates – the material, so it won't be put on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2060	Mr. Chairman, a respected member of the Bureau, Mr. Ministers, fellow envoys, I would like to make a proposal, and this proposal can also be understood as a supplement or, as, 4 possibly, a suggestion within Article 14. — points 14. The Annex to the Treaty establishing border crossings between BiH and the Republic of Croatia is a proposal from the Presidency to include one question, or, eventually, when this point comes to the Council of Ministers answering the question whether it has been involved in the closure activities, i.e. the resolution of the closure of the Brcko bridge, which the Republic of Croatia has unilaterally done without any arguments and I would like to say that the Council of Ministers should support the supervisor for Brcko, who, on several occasions along with the OHR, is taking action on the issue, and we have never heard a word from the Council of Ministers that has made it clear on this issue. The last time Mr. Clark's Klark yesterday, the supervisor for Brcko is, again, cramping so I say, asking for help. I have not heard that no Council of Ministers has answered the question. As part of all activities conducted with Croatia, this question should be found and I think it can be within this point, to say something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2061	I'll remind everyone. I'd like to ask you to stick to the Rules of Procedure. This question could and could still be put into a contest of parliamentary, or delegate issues, and I believe that the Council of Ministers is ready to speak at this point eventually, but we do not have conditions for the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2062	Madam Chairman, representatives of the Presidency and of the Council of Ministers, guests, journalists, I am obliged in relation to the position of the Constitutional and Legal Commission of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, as president of the Committee of Ministers, to make a public request that there be any point in the sitting, only when you have the conditions to provide the following proposals for the agenda, therefore, the information that the Constitutional and ustavno-pravni Committee requests from the National Assembly of the People, in connection with the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliament of BiH, which refers to the structure relating to the law on the adoption of the Budget of BiH and the execution of the Budget of BiH, and concerns the fact that the letter which I, on two occasions, at the request of President Sejfudin Tokić, referred to Mr Tokić and the College of the House of the People on behalf of the Commission. I just want a brief explanation. I'm gonna need one minute. In line with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, the Constitutional and First Commission called on the 15th session in 5.2.2002, because the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2002 were included in the budget for BiH's implementation and international obligations for 2002. Prior to the start of the debate on the above-mentioned agenda, the members of the Commission of the Serb people informed the other members of the Commission that they would leave the session, the argument that they were followed by the decision of the NS RS which led to the interruption of the work in the follow-up of the lack of quorum. In the Rules of Procedure, without the presence of two representatives, the Bosniak, Serbian and Croatian people, the Commission automatically interrupts the work and cannot make any decisions. On the basis of the 15th session of the Commission in 13.2.2002, the situation mentioned was repeated, which was held at the second extension of the 15th session of the Commission on 18.3.2002, which is why the mentioned agenda points have not been reviewed again by the Constitutional Legal Commission. As chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I address the members of the House of the Peoples of the Prlamentary Assembly of BiH to propose a solution to the existing situation, in accordance with their responsibilities, regarding the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of the House of People. 5 Also, I ask the College to inform delegates about their interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples in this situation at the next session of the House of Nations on 21.3.2002. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2063	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for word? I would ask you to know very well, you can answer for the word, to supplement the agenda as much as you want. If there is no material in front of the delegates, it will not be put to the vote. Therefore, the ideas of delegates – the envoys at home who remembered that we should now change the agenda without material simply cannot be considered Business there is no possibility that we should think of ourselves as impeccable to that level to declare ourselves. I'll comment on that and you're not looking for it in principle. You're all, or most of you are either professionals or half-professionals, and when you want to say something to someone, you have no reason to wait for the beginning of the session, not even in the hallway, but here you say. I would ask you to use the press as a press. You can always schedule a press release, and you can stick to the House of Business and work accordingly. As far as this question is concerned, there is no possibility of the College changing its Rules of Procedure. You have publicly interpreted the Rules of Procedure and made it very clear to the public through this form why Budget is not in the parliamentary procedure of this point where we are now, but that is information that I value very useful. Here you go, Mr. Sušac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2064	Mr. President, Mr. Bureau member, Mr. Ministers, fellow envoys, it is clear in which atmosphere this session is being held and the atmosphere in which Mr. Špirić's resolution is concerned, i.e. amendments to the entity constitutions. I, as a member of the Constitutional-First Commission, participated in the work and there were five of us. Not only was Mr Špirić present, and I must say that I would engage in the approvals of the resolution, she is so acceptable to me, that I simply did not think to engage in the repairs of the resolution, if Mr Špirić is not present. According to the Dayton Peace Agreement, it is clear that all refugees should return to their homes, that all the refugees should be returned to their property. This resolution is, to me, acceptable because of what she's not talking about coming back at all. First, it talks about one part of BiH. So he's not talking about the entire BiH area and refugees in the entire BiH area. I would understand that this resolution, if it had written in it, that Hrvat and Bošnjak should return to RS, Srbin to the Federation, or anyone who has been exiled. Well, their return is not possible, because Srbin from the Republic of Croatia need to return to their homes. This is where the situation turned. What else is not acceptable to me? First, we are asked here to ask that the laws of the Republic of Croatia change. That's unacceptable. Furthermore, it's clear,
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2065	I would ask you, there is not a word here about the content of the resolution, but only about the argument, will we wait for the Commission to give its report, or will we, in accordance with the proposal to supplement the agenda, which Nikola Špirić explained on the agenda. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2066	Mr Flow, we are members of the Commission, in a certain way called, because as we have not considered it. I have to say why I didn't, so I don't stay in the air if I didn't want to, as a member of the Commission to consider it. Furthermore, there is a reference to the resolution here if the property of Srbin in the Republic of Croatia cannot be returned to them to compensate for it to be written in the same resolution to form a commission that will first draft a proposal for Srbin from the Republic of Croatia who give up Croatian citizenship to obtain Bosnia and Herzegovina citizenship, in the first place BiH. Of course it's about staying. Where's the return? Which return is what it's all about. So, that's, I'll get, of course, involved. We now need to resolve fully, to start a resolution on the Constitutional and Legal Commission where Mr Špirić will be present and to start a resolution acceptable, which will refer to the entire area of BiH, of course, including refugees and Srbin from the Republic of Croatia, including Serbia, from the whole area, or to a space where there are refugees from the former Yugoslavia. It means my proposal for the resolution to be within the framework of the Dayton Peace Agreement, which will cover the whole of BiH and I propose that the Commission continue to work and bring a resolution in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2067	Okay, thanks. So, this is an argument debate for putting on the agenda and not putting on the agenda and the replica of Mr. Špirić on the discussion on this issue of Mr. Dear Envoy.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2068	Gentlemen, I have no intention of entering the essence of the resolution unless it becomes a part of the agenda, but since my esteemed colleague Mr. Sušac has already talked about the content of the resolution, I must say, the intention is to avoid both displaced persons from both Yugoslavia and Croatia, from any state they place at the state level of BiH. Refugees from Croatia, not the RS problem, but BiH states. Why BiH is running away from its obligation, whether it is Srbin, Hrvat or Bošnjak. The process makes it impossible, why it is an attempt and the first attempt to define a trilateral agreement on BiH, Croatia and Serbia's relationship to address the burning problem. How can it be said that Bošnjak and Hrvat can return if we do not drive these people to the ice. So, space must be freed and it is first for everyone to go back to where they were being expelled and BiH must have a cramping struggle for each of its citizens. So the essence of the resolution is to put it at the state level. Why do we choose the state level of BiH, when it suits who, the hour is little for the Srbin, the time of few Hrvat, the time of few Bošnjak, which is why we are in the role. We thought that the Srbin from Croatia should be invoiced by the RS, which the Bosniaks from Serbia should be invoiced by the Federation, etc. Let's get to that story sometime. But I'm asking the resolution to become a part of the agenda for everyone to say what you think and that unfortunate poor girl to see what kind of representatives she has. Why are we keeping this in a drawer for five months? To whom it suits. You think it suits those people. He doesn't answer to them or the authorities. Thank you very much, but I insist that it become a part of the agenda to talk about the essence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2069	Mr. Sušac, what is it now? Here you go. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2070	Mr. Špirić, I don't know if you were talking about my discussion or someone else's. When I said that a refugee thing wasn't a matter of the BiH state. But a refugee from BiH's space and everyone else's. That's what I was talking about. So, you were just saying, you weren't giving someone else's line to me because I didn't say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2071	Okay. I think after these two replicas, you got along better and you got the conditions to move on. There are no new proposals for the agenda. I'm closing the debate on new proposals for the agenda. So, we have a proposal from Mr Špirić that the agenda item of the resolution, which we had at the last session, is defined as taking the position of the competent commission, the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which is also the Commission, which covers the issue of human rights. The Commission did not deliver this to us, so that we now have a defacto, a legitimate right of re-envoys, that would mean a certain way to change Dom's view from the last time. But the Rules of Procedure are Rules of Procedure, and I invite you who is to consider this point of the agenda as an additional item of the agenda at the session of this high house. Who's in? – 5 envoys, or delegates, are respected for. Who's against it? - 7 is the same respected envoys against. Who's being held back? – 3 With 5 votes for – 7 against and 3 abstentions, I find that Mr Špirić's proposal that this item of the agenda finds its place in today's session has not passed, which continues to be an activity in the Commission in accordance with the Business so as not to be vague. The next proposal was a question of Mr. Novaković's conclusions. We didn't get the material and this can't be accessed by putting on the agenda, nor by making a statement to Mr. Novaković at all. You're correct in interpreting the Rules of Procedure. You have the right to a break. I'm taking a half-hour break and at the same time... Please take your seats. [[PAUZA]] The break's up. After the end of this break, you have received a short one sentence, which the promoter has defined. I agreed with the envoy – the delegate, Mr Novaković, in light of the debate, that as chairman, I would ask and request the BiH Presidency to provide information, that is to say, a position on the presidency's position as foreign policy in view of the latest statements made by Mr Tomac, vice-president of the Croatian Parliament, and that with this information, it may be the point of the agenda for the next session. Since the promoter has given up this agenda point, and I, as chairman, can ask for it, I believe that the conditions have been obtained to approach the statement of the agenda. Who's for the agenda you got? I'm sorry the debate on the agenda is over. We don't have an extra agenda point. He's only got a deal with the promoter. I will repeat that I, as chairman of the House, on the basis of the debate that has been held here, require 8 of the Information Bureau, the presidency's position as BiH's competent body for international relations, concerning statements by Mr Tomac, the latest statement. But when we get that information, then we'll get all the information and we'll talk. Who is listed for the adoption of the agenda? Do you mind? All 13 envoys – the delegates accepted the agenda you received and how they were actually proposed by the College of the House of Nations. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. Answers to delegate questions and delegate questions Answers to questions were received by delegate Šefik Džaferović, Nikola Špirić and Sejfudin Tokić, so one answer at a time, with Špirić having another and additional answer. I've been announced here as questions from Mr. Jusufović. I rephrase. Is there any more questions? Mr. Genjac and Mr. Rodić answered the word. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2072	I thank, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected guests, I have a question for the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Macedonian police are 12 February o.g. Arrested Asim Sefer and Omer Abdušinović, students, BiH citizens. Sefer and Abdušinović are imprisoned, tortured, insulted, humiliated and Sefer has been brutally beaten. In the end, they were released on February 16th without any explanation. Meanwhile, Macedonian police are making statements on the alleged planned terrorist actions of these students and their links to alleged Le... groups, never revealing the identity of the liquids. At the same time, BiH's ambassador to Macedonia has officially asked Macedonian authorities for information in four unsuccessful attempts to establish the identity of arrested BiH citizens. The data was only received from colleagues from the Bulgarian Embassy in Skopje. By avoiding Macedonian authorities to deliver evidence and requested information, they suspect that innocent students of BiH citizens are imprisoned, beaten, humiliated, only to obtain cheap points in an international action against terrorism. Macedonian authorities have not yet provided the requested information, manifesting a scandalous lack of respect for the international subjectivity of BiH and its institutions. BiH authorities had to react vigorously. According to me, the information was only available on 17 March. BiH's ambassador to Macedonia is invited to Sarajevo for consultations on the continued functioning of Bosnian diplomacy in Macedonia. On the same day, however, information has been released that the BiH presidency has accepted an invitation to visit Macedonia, and the Macedonian foreign ministry's support says the case of arrested Bosnian students for Macedonia has been completed and should not affect friendly relations between the two countries. This could mean that BiH citizens can be unfoundedly arrested, imprisoned, tortured and humiliated without any consequences. That's why I'm asking one question. 9-1. What has the BiH Presidency and the BiH Foreign Affairs Ministry done and what will they do to protect BiH citizens and vigorously prevent a dangerous precedent from becoming a practice? 2. Why did the BiH presidency accept an invitation to visit Macedonia, just the day BiH's ambassador to Macedonia was invited to consult in Sarajevo? Does this mean that for the BiH presidency, the case is also closed and does the sub-rilike arrangement of the visit even have a consultation between the Presidency and the BiH Foreign Ministry? I'd like a written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2073	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2074	Dear fellow delegates, esteemed guests, I would like to ask the Council of Ministers the following question. The RS Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund and the RS government have broken the agreement on mutual rights and obligations of users of the rights of RS and the Federation of BiH since May 2000 and sent a request to the FIO Federation of BiH to join new negotiations to regulate common issues in this area. As the bodies of the Federation of BiH do not respond, we ask the Council of Ministers what they will do to settle these issues. Returnees and pensioners have been put in a difficult position so that the health care agreement for pensioners cannot be applied. I'm attached to the letter.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2075	I appreciate it. Is there anyone else to answer for? Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2076	Ladies and gentlemen, I have received a written answer to two parliamentary questions, of course I am not satisfied with any answer, so I suggest that these questions be considered repeated. The question was whether the member of the Bureau or the Council of Ministers was to represent these bodies on his own. The answer is general, i.e. it is called for by the BiH presidency's methods of work in the presidency itself. A consistent agreement has been asked on whether a member of the Presidency in situations where he represents the Presidency of BiH on his own to decide on amendments to certain legal texts, proposing new or other solutions, can provide certain guarantees on behalf of the Presidency without prior consultation with the other members of the Bureau, and I am interested in a clear business opportunity. Secondly, the Council of Ministers responds to the structure of the staff. The answer is not satisfactory for the following reasons. I request that in the form of written material be completed and that indicators be displayed at a percentage amount. In this way, they will finally do part of the job required by the law and which has so far obviously and unfoundedly not been done and refers to the national structure of employees in the BiH authorities and, of course, I have one concrete initiative. It can be addressed to the Council of Ministers and the anti-terrorist team. What is the role of the paramilitary formation "Ševa" in the previous war. Is it true that they were taking individual citizens of Sarajevo, mostly Srbin, to places where they were ordered by a sniper, a sniper fire killed? So I'm interested in that answer. Any knowledge or information about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2077	Thank you. Mr Spahić also answered for the word. Here you go, Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2078	Mr. Chairman, I just want to repeat in writing once again the oral question that I asked at the beginning of this home's work and here's the almost good part, two-thirds of this home's work practically expired. The question is exactly the same. It can be looked at in all the stenograms. Why does the BiH House of People not have any information at this time on the implementation of the BiH Constitutional Court decisions?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2079	What's the question? You have been interpreted by Mr Spahić, you have received an interpretation that MPs – envoys cannot ask each other a question. Otherwise, with the election campaign approaching, we'd get a big shot. And as for why, as chairman, I didn't ask for that information, I want to remind you one thing. The Constitutional Court's decision is something why they are in charge of their implementation of the entity assembly, i.e. entity structures of government. If someone needs to request information from the entity's congregations about how the Constitutional Court's decision is implemented, then I would like it to be requested, I am willing to ask the assembly, possibly that information, but I am quite sure that you are very well informed about the stage of the application of that constitutionality decision. Okay, I will. Every envoy - delegate, even if he comes before the session and asks for information, I will be pleased. Nice to meet you at the session. Any more questions? If not, we close the first item of the agenda and move to the second point of the agenda. Ad.2. You have received the text of the minutes from the 15th session of the House of Peoples. Who answers for a word from those attending the session? Niko. Who is for the adoption of the minutes from the 15th session of the House of Peoples? All 14 present envoys – delegates voted for the adoption of the minutes. Ad.3. The appointment of members for the joint commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to reach an agreement on the same text of the Law on Uptake and Protection of the Red Cross/Cross and the name of the Red Cross Society/Crist of the College of the House of Peoples has formulated a proposal that Mr Ilić, Mr Spahić and Mr Sušac enter the commission and, of course, there may be new proposals. We wanted to evenly deploy these questions to all the envoys, and we know little about the affinity. Mr. Ilić. Here I suggest that Mr. Novaković take over at this stage and we'll see for the next time, not to make something special out of it now. Before we enter into this proposal, 11 therefore, Novaković, Spahić and Sušac, I would like to remind you of the College, namely, we will request and send it in writing, that all commissions and all appointed members of the committees are aware of the business provisions, which is that their report on reaching agreement, or not reaching agreement should reach the next session. So that commissions do not assume the role of the new procedure, in which the meetings are scheduled to be agreed, so they interrupt so they fail to either achieve or fail to agree, according to the rules of procedure, and the commission is obliged to submit a report at the next session. I would ask that, so much so, which is already a lot of laws at the alignment, and commissions are making big breaks in this business. So who is Mr. Novaković, Mr. Spahić and Mr. Sušac? All 14 present envoys voted unanimously for this conclusion. Ad.4. A statement by the People's House on the reports of the joint committees of the two homes on reaching an agreement on the same text You have received a statement on two laws on the Law of First Defence and the Law on Copyright and Related Rights in BiH. The laws are in line. Who's in favor of adopting a report on the Law of Defence? Who is in line with the Law on Copyright and Related Rights in BiH? I find that both the law and the other law in the agreed text, the Commission's report, has been adopted. Ad.5. The Commission's report to the People's House on the alignment of the Agreement on Co-operation on the fight against international terrorism, illicit drug trafficking, psychotropic substances, organised crime between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey. The Commission has reached agreement on the Agreement. Request for consideration of the Law on Electricity Transfers, Regulators and System Operators in BiH under Article 100. The business of the House of the Peoples. The College of the People's House of the Commission has agreed that the law goes according to procedure, so we can continue this agenda point, given that we do not have the debate, but we are just pleading on it. Who is to adopt the Law on the transmission of electricity, the regulator and the operator of the system in BiH in accordance with Article 100. At the same time, I would like to warn you of a letter of apology from Ms. Azra Hadžiahmetović who could not attend this. Who's in favor of the text of the law? - 14 Who's against it? With 14 votes for and one against. We have an entity majority that's obvious. I find that the House of Peoples passed a law on the transmission of electricity, regulator and operator of the BiH system and also adopted this law House of Representatives in the same text, so there is no need for a commission. 12 Requests for the examination of the law on administrative fees and tariffs to administrative fees under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. The commission report you received. The Commission has not reached agreement. Now in accordance with Article 60, we are voting in the second round by entities under Article 60 so that the decision can not be taken by the entity more than two-thirds or more votes against, so I am defactically asking the question. Who is against the House being declared in accordance with Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure on the Law on Administrative Taxes and Tariffs of Administrative Taxi? From the RS who's against? - 4 I find that more than two-thirds is, and this procedure is not accepted in relation to the declaration of this law, and since this law cannot go in any other procedure by decision of the High Representative, we will wait for a better time for this law. Request for an examination of the law on amendments and additions to the Administrative Tax Act under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House. You got the report. Therefore, the Commission did not get the consent. Now according to Article 100. We're voting our rules of procedure in the second round. Who's against this RS law? - 4 I find that this procedure has not been accepted. Application for review of the BiH court law under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. You have received a report from the Commission. The Commission has not reached agreement. Who's against this procedure going to this court law? – 4 Request to consider the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. It's the same procedure. It's about the law that obligations from the road map. Who's against the law being considered and adopted under this procedure?-4 I find he hasn't won. The requirement is for the law on the purpose and use of the assets that BiH receives under the agreement on the ex-SFRJ succession issue to be considered under Article 99. Rules of Procedure. The commission report you received. The Commission has not reached agreement. Now in accordance with Article 60. We're voting our rules of procedure in the second round. Who is against the fact that this law is being considered in accordance with a closed procedure from the RS? There's a change you see now is 5 against. So he didn't even get this bill, he's going into regular procedure. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Central Bank Act in BiH This is a law for reading. The law did not receive the required majority in the first reading. The commission report you received. The Commission has not reached agreement. The law amending and supplementing the Central Bank Act. 13 Who is against the adoption of this law in the first reading? – 5 I find that the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Central Bank did not go through the first reading and defacto returns completely to the procedure, given that the principles of the tradition were not accepted in this House after the second statement. We're moving on to Act 6. Ad.6. The Law on Administrative Procedure – Proposer of the Council of Ministers The first reading was held at the 15th session of the House of Peoples. Now it's second reading. The amendments in accordance with Article 89 were submitted by delegate Momčilo Novaković. First we have a debate on amendments and I would like to ask if Mr. Novaković would like to explain his amendments? It will. Later, we will also offer the Council of Ministers an opinion on these amendments. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2080	Dear fellow delegates, I have submitted 25 amendments to this law on administrative procedure, with the fundamental aim of improving on the one hand the text of the law and, on the other hand, certain clarifications in some members of the law, I propose to the Constitutional and Legal Commission and the House. Since the Constitutional-First Commission has not accepted 23 of the proposed 25 amendments. I have to say, this is actually a real example of working in the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Unfortunately, most members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, or the largest number of members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, did not engage in this problem, of course and cannot be included in all, with regard to the level of expertise of the people present in the Constitutional Legal Commission, so that a number of amendments that are entirely ligificial did not find a place in the law. For this reason, I have repeated the amendments, with the desire to point out that the way the Constitutional and Legal Commission works is disastrous. I want to ask the Constitutional and Legal Commission this way. What's the matter with these amendments, and do they have an explanation for why some of them are not accepted? Also, I want to ask the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Whether or not the meeting invited a professional person who could explain it from a professional point of view and immediately say that I have the information that he did, but that he had received amendments at the session and that that professional person could not be declared. Also, I want to ask the Constitutional and Legal Committee, or the Chairman. Which is why I am not as an amendment promoter, possibly, invited to further explain these amendments, respecting that the Constitutional and Legal Commission does not have to do so, of course, but again with the aim of making this law quality and firstly resolving the issue of administrative procedure. There might be a lot more to ask here, but obviously there's only one answer. The Constitutional and Legal Commission is very rare, or almost never respects the amendments of Serbian delegates. Nor is it involved in the professional part of legal solutions. Unfortunately, in the most part, this commission acts as a political body, or a political body, rather than a professional body. In this way, this commission does not do good to this home, does not do good to the Parliamentary Assembly and does not do good to BiH either. I have no intention of explaining 14 amendments again individually. I've given an explanation and I only expect the House to have one serious way of working each of these amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2081	Thank you. I would just like to remind all the esteemed delegates – the envoys that they have the right and the obligation to attend all the working bodies, not just the working bodies they belong to. At the same time, I would remind you that a review of the session of committees is being delivered to all delegates and envoys, and that, of course, on this plan, representatives should – delegates should better plan their activities, but I would also remind the presidents of the commission that the College has concluded that some committees are inadmissiblely close to the meeting of the House of Peoples, so that no procedural material is available to equip and install the amendments, and we have defined already at some of the previous meetings, that the secretary is obliged to ensure that the amendments adopted on the committees, which are an integral part of the text proposal, are already contained in this text in order to facilitate the monitoring of the legislative project. But this is something about a better organisation, the efficiency of the actions of the delegates – the envoys of the commission, which does not disturb the procedure in which we are going at all, and the procedure defecately states that of the 25 previously proposed amendments of Mr Novaković 21 and 23 have been incorporated into the text of the law. All the other amendments are amendments rejected by the Commission, and the envoy, Mr Novaković, used the right of business and re-proposed it to the House and the House today, this high house will make a decision on this 23 amendment, regardless of who the promoter is whether a Srbin, Hrvat or Bošnjak, and according to the Rules of Procedure that we have defined. Could be from the Council of Ministers. There's no need. Looks like it's all clear. Is anyone answering for a word? Since the amendments have already been discussed on the commission, it speaks of the application of these amendments or... reporting for the word of the honourable envoy Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2082	Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to draw attention to something that colleague Novaković was talking about, of course, which is not good. If someone is to engage or have time to look at 27 amendments, which essentially means improving the text rather than amending the essence of the law and if there is no will for none of these 27 amendments to be accepted, it is not a good sign at the beginning. It's not good, and if it is, of course, I can't really argue that the Constitutional and Legal Commission is almost always in the voting situation, so the legal projects share the same fate here in the House. I would love it if we were to engage in the essence when we decide, and you will see if any of the journalists are in a position to compare these amendments to Mr. Novaković who have been rejected, therefore the same commission, that in the next law which will be the point of the agenda, the essence of these amendments is accepted by another delegate, who, unlike Novaković, is only a member of another people. I'm a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. I have repeatedly called for it to be good, perhaps, to have a fundamental debate, and not who has proposed the amendment to make the transition towards obtaining legal solutions, not that on the Constitutional and Legal Committee, unfortunately, the fate of the laws in the House is clear. What they're going to say is that all the commissions and the ustavno-pravni Law that I belong to should leave more time at the hearing than the essence of the law, to create a passivity. Not this law, you see about the administration is very missing, and unless these amendments are adopted. As the adoption of these amendments will not change the essence of these laws. But it must be tested once and for its will. It is not good when a delegate from one nation offers 27 amendments, which have neither a national story nor an entity story nor I know which other story is unanimously rejected. That's not a good message. In that sense, I think that 15 in the declaration of amendments, maybe dom will take care of it if there is no power to the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2083	I would really ask you not to give amendments any prefix either Serbian or Croatian or Bosniak, they are procedurally going their course and they will be accepted, rejected or, since this debate is quite useful especially for our future work, defacto completed, conditions are being obtained to approach the plea. Are the envoys – delegates ready to plead. Amendment I of Mr. Novokovic refers to Article 9. Who's for Mr. Novaković's amendment? - 5 Who's against it? - 6 Who's abstentioned? – 4 I find the amendment I did not get the required majority because 5 was for – 6 versus and 4 abstained. Amendment ii. kao's in? - 5 Who's against it? - 5 Who's abstentioned? 5 The amendment did not receive the required majority and did not go through the procedure. Amendment III refers to Article 9 and Article 18, respectively, and Article 3 refers to the language. Those who follow, I assume they're concentrated in using the term Bosnian. Who is it to adopt Amendment III of the distinguished delegate Mr. Novaković? - 5 Who's against it? - 8 Who Is Restraint? 2 5 for – 8 v and 2 abstentions I find even this amendment has not passed. Amendment IV Who's in favour? - 5 Who's against it? - 6 Who Is Encouraged? - 4 Amendment V Who's in favour? Who's against it? - 6 Who's abstentioned? 4 5 for – 6 v – 4 abstentioned. Amendment VI Who's in favour? - 4 Who's against it? - 5 Who's abstentioned? - 5 16 Amendment VI Who's in favour? - 5 Who's against it? - 6 Who's abstentioned? 4 5-6 – 4 Amendment VII Who's in favour? 5 Who's against it? - 6 Who's abstentioned? - 4 Amendment VIII Who's in favour? - 5 Who's against it? - 5 Who's abstentioned? 5 Amendment IX refers to Article 62. Who's in? - 5 Who's against it? - Who's restrained? - amandman x Who's in favour? - 5 Who's against it? - 7 Who's abstentioned? 3 Amendment XI refers to Article 66. Who's in? - 5 Who's against it? - 6 Who Is Encouraged? 5 for – 6 against – 4 abstentions. Amendment XII Who's in favour? - Who's against it? - 5 Who's abstentioned? - 4 I find that the amendment has received the necessary majority, we vote on entities. Who's from the Federation for? - did not get the entity majority, followed by the alignment. I find that the College of the House of Nations has agreed to this amendment. So Amendment XII is accepted and becomes an integral part of the text. Amendment XIII Who's in favour? Who's against it? – 7 abstentions – 3 5 for – 7 versus – abstention 3. 17 Amendment XIV Who's in favour? - 5 Who's against it? - 5 Who's abstentioned? - 5, 5, 5, 5 amendments have not passed. Amendment XV refers to Article 79. Who's in? - 5 Who's against it? - 6 Who's abstentioned? - 4 amandman XVI Who's in favour? 5 Who's against it? - 6 Who's abstentioned? 4 5 for – 6 v – 4 abstentioned. Amendment XVII Who's in favour? - Who's against it? - 6 Who's abstentioned? 4 Amendment XVIII Who's in? - 4 Who's against it? - 6 Who's abstentioned? 5 4 for – 6 v – 5 abstention. Amendment XIX Who's in? - Who's against it? - 7 Who's got the nerve? – 3 5 for – 7 versus and 3 abstained. Amendment XX Who's in favour? - 5 Who's against it? - 7 Who's abstentioned? – 3 Amendment XXI is an integral part of the text, it has already been adopted by the Commission. Amendment XXII Who's in favour? - 5 Who's against it? - 5 Who's abstentioned? - 5 amandman XXIV Who's in favour? - 5 Who's against it? - Who's being held back? – 18 I see that the delegates – the envoys are very tense at the last moment decide how they will vote on the weight of the decision. amandman XXV and the last amendment proposed by the distinguished delegate to this high house is, on which this high house will now be declared. So, I invite you who's in favour of Mr. Novaković's amendment? - 5 Who's against it? - 7 Who's abstentioned? 3 The conditions have been met for the full text of the law to be declared with the amendments adopted. Who is for the above-mentioned text with the attached amendments? - 14 Who's against it? Nobody. abstentions 1 With 14 votes for – 1 abstentions can announce a positive decision of this high home, related to the law on administrative procedure. sekretar, has this law been passed in the House of Representatives in the same text? The House of Representatives has not completed the procedure yet. We're moving on to the management law. Ad.7. The Law on Administration – is proposed by the Council of Ministers – first reading You received the law as a report to the committee in charge. This is the first law reading. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded. I'm opening a dispersion. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Rodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2084	Ladies and gentlemen, given that this government law is in the first reading, I would like to say a few basic settings and what is practically and envisioned by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. When we look at this law, it is clear that there is a constitutional basis and that, in principle, the bill proposed by the Council of Ministers in the text is quite acceptable and that, with certain adjustments in the second reading, it could be adopted. However, I want to clarify here today a few things and I think they are very important for further decision on this law. The bill referred to in the parliamentary procedure was quite correct and I believe that the first reading could have passed. However, the Constitutional-First Commission was held in the meantime and certain amendments adopted by the Constitutional and Legal Commission have been discussed, which, in my view, significantly change certain matters in the matter of the law. I just want to say that the law has applied its name. It is no longer a government law, but a law on BiH's state administration. In my view, it was quite unnecessary for the simple reason that the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as set out in Article 1. The BiH Constitution practically BiH continues its first, international legal existence, recognised by international law as a state, so BiH is a state with its internal structure. What, then, and what are we worried about, if we are dissipating in this Parliament, which makes decisions at the level of BiH and which makes the laws of its jurisdiction, which are the laws of BiH, why are certain amendments that may be an obstacle to the adoption of this law in the end. I also want to think that sometimes I feel like we're getting into certain differences without having to, and I often get the impression that we were just talking about amendments, that we simply see who's against who in this house. However, I am always in favour of essential solutions and to come up with a quality law and I think this administration law is just as high-quality as the previous administrative procedure law, which we just adopted. I want to finally tell you what kind of absurd situation we're going to be. We have recently adopted the Law on Administrative Procedure, which is a procedural law, and we consider this to be material law in Article 1. The law on the initial procedure is clearly stated that this law lays down rules in the administrative procedure under which the authorities of the BiH administration act when they directly apply the regulations in administrative matters, resolve rights, obligations or rights of interest of citizens, legal persons or other parties in administrative matters which are the competences of the BiH institutions. For these reasons, in order not to come or to the next session to seek the law on amendments and amendments to the administrative procedure, I fear we are taking more care of politics than about such important laws for BiH. I think that if, if it is my commitment to the law in the original text as proposed by the Council of Ministers in the first reading, I am in favour of this law, however, essentially if it changes, then I think we are coming into a situation that is not principledly good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2085	Thank you. I remind you, therefore, it is about first reading, we are talking about the principles and principles on which the law is based. Mr. Envoy Šimić came forward for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2086	Gentlemen Ambassadors, distinguished guests, I will speak very briefly, the law is in the first reading, and for me it meets the principles of the opening. So, as far as I'm concerned, I'm willing to let that law into another reading. The presentation of colleagues, meanwhile, was about amendments. I think it's necessary to discuss the principles first, when we get to the amendment, if the disputed amendment passes, goes away, if it doesn't go well, please. I volunteered to say this which seems very irrelevant, but it is important when I say that I am the signator of the amendment to which my colleague reacted. I think he reacted early to the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2087	Thank you. If no one answers the word, we can approach the statement of the law in the first reading. Who is it to hold a debate by members, that is, to adopt the law in the first question? The law of first. You won't confuse me at all. The first reading adopts the law – first reading. Therefore, the procedure of business I have made it perfectly clear. 20 Who is in favor of the first - reading management law? Do you mind? I agree that the Law on the Administration of the Council of Ministers' Proposals has been adopted on the first issue. We'll discuss the amendments in the second reading. I would normally ask that delegates – the envoys show a greater initiative on this law and if there is a need we can, because of our new circumstances, if the chance to pass the law is to open the procedure, compensation for the amendment, if, of course, the College agrees. I'm just stating as a possibility, but of course there's no speech. About that later. I'm glad you're finding an argument because, but that's what the College will decide in its session. Ad.8. The Law on the Classification of Intoxicating Drugs, Psychotropic Substances, Precursors and Plants – is proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH – the first reading you received a report from the competent commission. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Novaković, I am aware that you have submitted the amendments, but I would ask you to speak only of the principles and principles of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2088	Dear colleagues, I will not talk about the amendment. Since the amendment has been tabled and the commission has been discussing it and if the law passes, it will be a matter of second reading, but what I said in the amendment concerns first reading. In the light of the fact that certain items in the law, i.e. certain solutions are legally within the exclusive jurisdiction of the entity. Here before any debate in the second reading is necessary to obtain the consent of the entity. I do not have the entity's consent in the material, especially in the part relating to the Committee on Co-ordination of the Drugs Strategy, since that part, therefore, the tasks given to entities had to be consistent with entities before entering the first reading procedure. That's what I'm asking, if it's possible to get that alignment done first and only then to get further into the debate over this law at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2089	Thank you, I'd like to ask you, no matter what political differences we may have in mind. Constitutionally the first basis for any law is given by the Constitutional-Law of our dear commission, which some prefer some less, but is our competent commission. As for the first reading, I'd like to ask you to decide. The first reading is the definition of an exporter – the delegate whether this law is based at all on such principles that it is worth considering amendments or is not worth considering amendments and has no possibility of you changing principles. You can either accept or reject the law in the first question, and your discussion should therefore be based on an argument for one or the other. I apologize for this perhaps unnecessary clarification for the envoys – delegates who know the Rules of Procedure very well. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2090	21 Ladies and gentlemen, in the previous discussion I tried to point out some of the problems that are in the Constitutional First Commission and they will, unfortunately, repeat themselves on this law and a series of other legal projects, but what we will do is the fate of the country in which we live. I think Article 3.3a) of the BiH Constitution is decadent and clear. It may happen that the Constitutional and Legal Commission wins over the vote and nothing interferes with this country's constitutional procedure and that the law is passed in the Parliamentary Assembly, but we are going through some other stories here. If, who says it will not be a positive outcome and who suspects it may not be a positive report by the RS Parliament to transfer competences to BiH institutions. That's what we have to ask. It may be a more complex procedure, but that's the kind of state we've built. I assure you it's much better to work under the Constitution. I respect that the Commission has made a constitutional decision, let's say by 4-2 or 5-1 or, if it does not exist, such a possibility exists, but it is almost certain that there is no law. You remember with the CIPS project what we were doing. We asked the National Assembly to transfer some of the authority and we got this complex project. This is also an important project and falls under the authority of entities as part of health care, health policy, etc. It is necessary to request Parliament's opinion, to transfer and enter... I'm not, no matter how much I know the law is required, I'm not ready outside the Constitution and I'm not ready to transfer jurisdiction, because it's not my job.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2091	Mr. Špirić, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2092	Can I finish, at least I'm...
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2093	You can, but you can't talk about matter that isn't home jurisdiction. It's the commission's jurisdiction. You really can't talk about how the commission worked.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2094	I'm a member of the commission. I want to say how she worked.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2095	The Commission has worked in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. She made a decision in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and I ask you to concentrate on the discussion of the principles of law.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2096	I tend to be the principle of the law and say what the problem is. The problem is in both the Commission and the House, but only a blind man does not seem to see it in this country. I'm sorry. You have no reason to interrupt me because I'm talking about the essence of getting to the law. So I'm not going to talk about principles or principles until I've created a constitutional possibility to do it. That constitutional possibility does not exist for me, and the results of the vote will show what I think about it. I'm a legalist. If the delegates come forward, I'll enforce the law. But as a delegate, I have to say my point of view. Thank you very much. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2097	Madam Chairman, the presidents of the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, I would like to say in the context of this law that the draft law on the classification of intoxicating drugs, psychotropic substances, prescribs and pains is one of the most random laws at this time which is related to the functions of BiH as a country that is responsible together with other UN members to one of the most serious social situations in which entire generations, because we do not have an orderly area, do not only young people but all generations, therefore, the whole society. When it comes to the dispute in the Constitutional and Legal Commission, we have dealt, as you know constitutionally with the dream and obligation of the BiH Parliament to pass a law like this. As you know, we have established a constitutional basis for considering this law and the motion is fully legitimate, it is the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Civil Affairs. On the other hand, we have come from the fact that it is a very delicate area in which it is not only reduced to the question of the activities of the service of untourish jobs or what they are already called within the structure of BH society, but rather that it is an area in which new institutions must be established and therefore the principles and principles on which this commission law rests are fully well laid down, because they correspond to the modern organisation of modern states and societies in the fight against drugs, the spread of drugs and everything that experts in that area know and those institutions that are nominated here on the basis of principles and principles of building such a law in full compliance with the standards of Europe and the world. I think it's finally time that we don't introduce an unnecessary issue of conflict between competences, different institutions and don't prejudge the things that are complete, I would say quite openly beyond this debate on principles and principles, almost got out of control in a country like BiH in a region like BiH does. I consider this law, perhaps one of the most important laws that we will adopt. I consider the structures that are derived from the legal solutions of the principle and the principles of this law and the position of the Council of Ministers that came out with this law, in so much more important that I would like all that we can do today to respect the fact that this is a phase of discussion of principles and principles. Also, I would ask you to concentrate on the fact that nothing in the principles and principles of this law violates any interests of strategic, contrary, unification and builds one normal position of state institutions at all levels of society. Whether someone likes or dislikes that order is established in this area and that in this area the principle of co-ordination is set up to be fully open is one position that is no longer subject to discussion in the modern world. In this area everywhere in the world, in every country in every law, this activity is organised in one way or another, not under these standards, and I, of course, thank you for the compliments of the Constitutional-First Affairs Commission, as they have been given full attention and the fact that they act in such distinguished personalities as Mr Ivo Živković, Mr. Sušac, Mr. Nikola Špirić, Mr. Rodić, Mr. Džaferović. Most of them are also very experienced in political terms, but I would also say in that legal sense responsible enough to propose to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, that in this procedure, we should plead in the way we have done for the previous ones, I hope for the future stages of the debate on the possible normal course of the examination of this law, respecting all the possibility of business that gentlemen who are not satisfied with the fact that, in accordance with their rules of procedure, the Constitutional-Employed Commission has not accepted some amendments. They affirm these amendments at the House of Peoples's session, and this is the Rules of Procedure important, as I would say, a quality solution, because it protected the integrity of every MP and prevented any revote. But it allowed debate in both the Commission and the public, and I don't think 23 should put those traps there, because it was never the Constitutional and Legal Commission that made it impossible for a business amendment or any legislative project of a delegate in any way. Therefore, I do not think these remarks stand, and I find this law extremely important to join the Rules of Procedure. If the Rules of Procedure do not correspond to our colleagues from the House of Peoples, to me or to anyone else, there is always a normal procedure to initiate the procedure for amending the Rules of Procedure. I warned you we can't replace the thesis. If the Rules of Procedure are agreed and adopted in this House, that Rules of Procedure must be respected as long as it exists. If there are objections to the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure, I was the first one ready to discuss it. I think that when the work programme comes to the People's House that we're going to open a debate about this and that's what we're going to talk about today's agenda, and that's why I think we're going to talk about it anyway, but I don't want to make the point, I'd like to say that we're replacing our judgment today on this law to discuss the Rules of Procedure and the positions of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and the House of Peoples. You have the same replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2099	Ladies and gentlemen, if someone were to give me the task of speaking nicely about the law, I would talk as nicely here as Ibro Spahić talked about the law, because BiH's future is not in a nice story about the law but that we act in accordance with the Constitution and create assumptions that this law is passed. So I don't want to talk about the law. I don't want to talk about the principles of the law. I don't think it's bad to have that law, but I want a constitutional procedure implemented. I said, therefore, I cannot carry out a transfer of jurisdiction because the BiH Constitution is clear. That we can outvote, vote, and that's clear, but I beg you, don't talk about how someone's for the law and someone's against the law. I'm only here to respect the Constitution of the state we swore an oath to. If I find myself in the Constitution that this is constitutional matter I will raise my hand why not. But if there is no such thing, then our unwiseness instead of an active policy to address the law and transfer jurisdiction leads us to have no law and I think it must be quite clear to the public that those who vote against non-slow law, but that here is the game of Bosnia and Herzegovina with entities or BiH without entities, and that is quite clear. If it's a game, please have a nice part in the game. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2100	Thank you. Is it a replica or what?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2101	The speaker, Tokić, answered the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2102	Dear delegates - envoys, I have lost my will and sympathy for the replica since I chaired for quite understandable reasons, but I felt the need, given that on similar issues I had previously replicated to express a few important things that were not politically correct in my opinion and were said today in the discussion. First, the potential, and it is already repeated by the logic that when something is repeated that powers are accepted the truth that when something like who is proposed by the envoys – delegates from the RS is not accepted, 24 has no intention of delegating or something Bog does not give something against that entity or against those delegates, it does not stand and it is not correct to state, because I have not noticed that anyone has discussed it, and in such a way I will set an example earlier when the five laws, which the OHR has declared, and this home and all representatives of the entity and state structures of the authorities have signed up, we will be obliged to adopt these laws, without any particular explanation, the representatives of the RS have refused, and I will dare by the logic that is already recognizable, today we will refuse to accept it as soon as possible. That's what I'm saying because I have experience with the Single Passport Act and these laws that have been passed, etc. You see, nobody talked about it or needed to talk about it, but when we talk about this law, I want you gentlemen from, as you speak from the RS first to let the Republika Srpska know is not a national, national entity. It's not just Srbin who live there. It is an entity of equal Bošnjak, Srbin and Hrvat. So nothing is exclusively special. Secondly, Republika Srpska cannot and should not.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2103	I ask you to stick to the agenda is not Republika Srpska on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2104	Especially the replica and then the discussion, Mr. Špirić. In particular, in the light of the fact that something is completely omitted in the light of this law, it is that the law is adopted on the basis of Article 3(1) of the BiH institutions' competence to implement international criminal rules. Or, for the reason of law-making, I have not noticed that anyone denied it stands even for what I do not need, I am even angry when the Council of Ministers does so, that the Council of Ministers in its programme of work for March-December envisioned the adoption of this law, that the draft law had been drawn up and agreed by a working group composed of representatives of the Office of the High Representative, representatives of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the health ministries of both entities and on top of everything else to say. This matter was agreed by Evorpa as a unique substance within the European Union. Now, if you find it appropriate that this law, which, as Mr Spahić said earlier, represents one of the essential elements of the seriousness of this state, is bound by what is constantly called the BiH institutions and not given jurisdiction, then I really think we are discussing something that reminds me of election campaigns in the past. We should race in the pre-election campaign, but we should race in who will compete in the country until the elections as functionally as possible in the interest of both its multiethnic Bosnian dredging entities and all three constitutive Bosnian Herzegovina peoples and all the even-minded citizens. Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković has a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2105	We don't seem to hear or understand each other at these sessions. I have not heard anyone here mention the national Republic of Serbia and I do not see why someone is now talking about the national Republika Srpska when no one has mentioned it. Today, I haven't heard that notion, Mr. Tokić, and that seems to be your problem, or your fiction today. As far as the rejected laws are concerned, that is, the law procedure imposed by the High Representative is not the reason for what Mr. Tokić said but what we said last time. Whether you believe us or not, that's another question. But we've made it clear, and then and now we're 25 again. We are principled against the adoption of laws that are proposed by delegates and this and each other will be against if delegates propose an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2106	Please stick to the agenda, so you don't go back to the previous one.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2107	I answer only, it's a replica, and normally I have to replicate what I think is necessary to replicate. As far as this law is concerned, do not slow down anyone's need and do this in a unique way as in other countries of Europe. Is that someone slow around here? Gentlemen, let us do this as in the other countries of Europe, of course, by respecting what is in us. It's not true he doesn't touch the principles. It seems to me Article 21 says the commission will finance itself from the entity's budget. Did anyone ask the entities if they were going to finance the commission or not? No, and it's normal to fund that commission. Here I'm saying it's normal for them to fund it. Someone had to tell people or talk to them and make arrangements for them to finance it, because we can't order this law, like we're trying to do. That's what we're warning you about here. We keep getting sewn up like we're against the law. We won't change anything in the law, gentlemen, once you agree with the entity's funding. We're not gonna change anything. We'll vote him by emergency procedure. Please don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2108	I thank Mr. Novaković. The word is Mr. Džaferović. Since I'm here as chairman, you may want to speak, but I had an incorrect quote, so I'll follow you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2109	Here are the replicas and then the discussion of Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2110	It is not a replica, but a false allegation, as visiting counterpart Tokić said the expert commission was composed of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications and Entity Ministries and the OHR reached agreement. I'd really like that. But I have information, I have a memo expressing a serious reservation that you're not in agreement. I'm begging you, really, it's not my goal to outwit ourselves. I would like to be brought to me in writing where consent has been reached, and I will provide you with the reserve in writing. You, who are said to have been involved in granting consent. So, just in that sense. I'm not talking in my head. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2111	Not like a replica. I just read this text so there wouldn't be any ambiguity. I'm not the one who's going to arbitration. Here you go. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2112	I think, Your Honors Chairman, I think quite clearly that I did not talk about problems in terms of the organisation of the state, which the nations... how political parties, which generations... my replica is essentially like this. I'm always surprised when at the moment when we need to support the normal procedure, let's say in the first reading of the law that has its principles, which we agree on and here's Mr. Novaković said to be quite European standards and no one fights against it. In this law, then a letter that has come to the House of Peoples somewhere, and I am sorry, I appreciate Mr Špirić, I would like to write with him, and to be informed by the regular ministries, the Presidency, members of the Council of Ministers Presidency, I have already recognised that practice at the last session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and I am interested in whether we are doing a job dedicated to the subject of work? And if we say the nature of things that would be... is, here, which is dramatic for BiH. If it's our nature to deal with this problem, let's deal with this problem and I don't think drugs, intoxicating agents know any nations, religions, parties, generations, people of sex, homosexuals, lesbians, bisexuals, heterosexuals don't know that. This is the problem we're facing. They know how to transport, they know how to manufacture crime, they know how to smuggle, they know how to hit a man. That's the problem here. Don't make fun of the institutions here, whether it's entity, whether it's a new police system, a structure, if anyone has something dangerous to the central commission or the office, what they're going to do, who they're going to give orders to, etc. We're establishing a law in an area where we don't have a law. And when it comes to this matter, which was signed by the Minister in charge of the Ministry Council and sent us a document, in which there are these legal solutions and in which he informed us officially that this is what Mr Tokić was talking about, a consensuality. It's a fact we have in our hands. We have no other memos, neither the Constitutional-First Commission nor the Home of the People today have any other information from anyone, from any of the participants that is listed here in this document, and when we decided on this, we were sure that the real efforts of the entire social infrastructure to face the problem and to be effective in solving this problem, and not to be a discussion today after all that, that it does not actually exist. If I am allowed, since I have responded to the replica, and I would like to say that it is very dangerous, that the Council of Ministers delivers a letter to Parliament, the House of People, the Constitutional and First Commission in which it guarantees its signature by the Ministers and the Council of Ministers that consent has been reached, and that at the session we receive information in any form orally and in writing that there is no agreement on it. I think that fellow Špirić agrees and that it is a very strange policy, if there is a normal work process in the ministry that is appropriate, that he performs this procedure, introduces us to the procedure because it is a legally authorised proponent in accordance with the Constitution and with the interests of society, to appear after all this when we enter the first reading phase of a document that says or says it is not true. So please, since we are discussing principles and principles, since we all care about the obvious statements of Mr Špirić and Mr Novaković, Tokić, me and others, who will possibly participate, it is clear that we are all interested in the problem. Let's concentrate on the issue of relations with this. We have the law and we can get out of this. I suggest we get out of this the right way. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2113	For the replica, an incorrect quote is given a priority word, but it also implies that it cannot be spoken for up to three minutes. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2114	Dear delegate Spahić Ibrahim paša, you see, yes, yes, absolutely I am behind everything I've said.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2115	I would ask Mr. Džaferović not to whisper the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2116	Don't make him whisper to me. There's no burning on the push. You must forget it than there is a constitution, whether or not anyone likes it. It's not the first time the Council of Ministers has said that consent has been reached so that we don't have consent to you. And when I raise the question of the responsibility of the Council of Ministers, then Mr. Ibro Spahić is with experts and now I have to, to the public, tell a story about experts. It's just that they're going to make you believe it won't convince me, and there's a big difference. There is no agreement, Mr Spahić. There's no agreement. Impossible, is now Nikola Špirić, unlike the others, respects the Government of Republika Srpska and the Government of the Federation and one Minister and the During the Presidency and the President of Parliament and, of course, that as a delegate who wants to prepare neatly for the session, I ask for the sight of all those who are competent under the Constitution, that is the difference between me and your approach in which it would be good to push something quickly. It's not absurd, I said, I don't want to discuss principles. I don't dispute the principles. I dispute the procedure and what you said, I agree. We don't have that information and what Nikola Špirić has to offer let us look for it. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2117	I thank the distinguished déegat Špirić, but I would like to ask you, please, don't be so clearly transparent about not talking about the agenda point. If it's a topic now, we're talking about principles, we really should talk about principles. The constitutional basis was discussed on the Commission. The fact that the Council of Ministers has cited this sentence, whether it is controversial or not, I have cited it as illustrating, I have even given a negative connotation, because I do not think that the Council of Ministers is the body to pass laws, proposals based on the opinion of entities, but to use its jurisdiction and to work in accordance with the Constitution and do not legitimise that it has any relevance to this. So, the constitutional basis exists, a legitimate body that is only competent to say in this House, according to the current Rules of Procedure and the Constitution is the Constitutional and Legal Commission. He's authorized to propose. We have a first reading. There is a possibility that we can fix this text in the amendments. I think it's quite said, but here's the word Mr. Džaferović called earlier, we'll give Mr. Džaferović a word and then I think we can approach the plea. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2118	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, and if this is a discussion, I hope it will be shorter than the time foreseen for replication. I came out just to say that I support the principles on which the text of this law on the classification of intoxicating drugs and psychotropic 28 substances is based and that, in addition to the constitutional basis which is precisely stated in the reasoning of the law, I say that the adoption of this law is also an obligation for BiH, it is sufficient to read only the Article 1st text of the law that it says. This law lays down rules on the implementation of the provisions of the United Nations Single Convention on Intoxicating Drugs of 1961, amended and supplemented by the 1972 Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the United Nations Single Convention on Intoxication Drugs of 1961, the UN Convention on Psychotropic Substances of 1971 and the UN Convention against Illegal Trade in Drugs and Psychotropic Substances of 1988, in the text of the Convention. The law should regulate issues, therefore, the classification of intoxicating drugs, psychotropic substances, the establishment of a strategy co-ordination commission on the second and the establishment of a central drug office. So, the law except that, of course, BiH's our own need is, at the same time, fulfilling the obligations that BiH has under international legal acts that are part of BiH's legal order and which, if you want, are also subject to the regulations that the dominatious authorities in BiH are bringing. Therefore, I support the principles on which this law is based. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2119	Thank you. I think we've closed the debate, unless someone else answered the word. I'm closing the debate. Come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2120	There's a fact here that I have to really, I won't go out again, but I have to pay attention to her. Ponović, it is not a disputed adoption of the law and it is not a disputed obligation, gentlemen, but where it is written in this form and in this procedure and in this way. Don't mess with that stuff, sir, because you're a lawyer. I expect you not to move it. So it's not a controversial law of people, it's a disputed procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2121	Okay. It's not a matter of procedure, Mr. Novaković. The debate is about principles and principles. The procedure was also discussed constitutionally based on a body called the Constitutional and Legal Commission. I, I would really ask you, look, it makes sense that there are different political views in the House, but you can't rephrase by any dissension, but of course you can. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2122	I have a need, and I have come out here as a delegate and expressed my opinion, of course, because I am a lawyer and, in my professional, legal or legal opinion, is not a dispute or procedure, and I have presented the reasons for Mr. Novaković and as a man and as a delegate, I have the right to say it here and to explain it and not allow anyone to deny me my right to do so. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2123	Thank you. The conditions have been met that he has come forward. We're talking about the principles of the law. There is a possibility that the agenda point called the first reading of the law on 29 classifications of intoxicating drugs, psychotropics, etc. ... subprocessions, rather than called first reading – principles and principles. Who agrees with the principles and principles, and before that, I would ask the members of the Council of Ministers to, with all due respect, turn off the bell of their cell phones because it interferes with the work of this tall home. Who is the law on the classification of intoxicating drugs, psychotropic substances, precursors and first-reading plants? Who's against it? Or are you too late to vote? - 4 Who Is Restraint? 1 I find that this situation is very clear, that the law is going to be agreed on in the first question in the College of the House of Peoples and that should be implemented in the next three days, according to the Rules of Procedure, which we will adhere to and try to implement as effectively as possible. Ad. Nine. The Law on conflict of interest in BiH authorities – the Pedgator of the Council of Ministers Does any of the Council of Ministers need to report for word and say something? No, I don't. I'm opening a dispersion. You got the law, you got the report from the commission. This is the first law reading. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded, and then it goes in the amendments. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Divković then Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2124	Chairman, you didn't see how fast we were.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2125	You pulled your hands at the same time, but yours was faster.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2126	Thank you, Chairman, for the given word at your speed. I will take the opportunity first to congratulate both this home and the citizens of BiH for joining the Council of Europe. I think it's kind of a confession to this home, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2127	It is, but it is not part of the agenda, and it would be more useful for the Council of Europe to devote themselves to the agenda and respect for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2128	Thank you for your warning, Mr. Chairman, if you continue to do so, I'd better finish it right away. When it comes to the law on conflict of interest in BiH authorities, I appreciate the need to pass this law, especially that it is a task that we have in some way received in the Council's declaration of peace implementation held in Brussels, as it stands here and the law should clearly be 30, in line with the positive democratic experiences of countries that have a much longer democratic tradition than BiH has, and in this sense, absolutely, I support the adoption of the law. However, I must say when it comes to the proposed text of the law that the law is extremely complicated for me and for the solutions that basically lead to an unequal position sometimes for those concerned. That it is complicated, it is also acknowledged by an autoproposer who says in his explanation in this sense there is no doubt that the law will encounter contradictions and different assessments, etc. that I do not read on, and that brings into an unequal position those to whom it applies, it can be seen, for example, in Article 15 paragraph 2 of the Law when it comes to people who work at the university, because they only accept to stay working people at the university and those young people who are supposed to apply tomorrow to teach at the university, etc. They don't stand a chance if they're in one of their homes or in some executive authority and vice versa. For this reason, it seemed to me that it was much more natural for the promoter to define that, for example, the obligation of parliamentary professionalism, i.e. professionalisation, and thus resolved all the dilemmas about the law or if it did not wish it then had another option, which seemed to me to be a better solution, which is that the position of the temporary electoral rules, which, in my opinion, in a very logical and correct way, resolved this conflict of interest in BiH authorities. That's the kind of thing I think should be put out for this pay phone. I make my personal views clear, etc. Before we even come to terms with the law in the first reading, I personally think it would be very good if the bill promoter, this law pulled out of the procedure and reworked it on one of these principles that I was talking about, offered the procedure again. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2129	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for word? This is Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2130	My fellow delegates, first of all, would like to support Mr. Ivo Divković's proposal, of course, if that is possible in any way in business right now, but I would also support this proposal for the reasons he has made but also for some other reasons. Namely, here is a very important one principle on which, which is incorporated into this law, which is the principle of co-ordination of the laws and institutions of the BiH authorities and entity laws. We know that in our first system, in the BiH legal system as it is, that principle does not exist. So, the laws cannot, so they cannot commit entities to law-making by imperative norm, but, of course, they can be agreed through the transfer of jurisdiction or otherwise agreed by entities to pass such laws. That's very significant. I don't think that's a problem and that it can be installed if, of course, it is accepted and done if Mr. Divković's proposal is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2131	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for word? It's just a business explanation. The Council of Ministers, when it has given the law in the procedure, does not have the opportunity to take it out of the procedure and you can only be delegates – envoys declare this law on principles and principles, thus assessing whether the law has any principles or not. I've already concluded the debate, Mr Spahić. 31 Who Is For This Law? - 3 Who's against this hammer? - 7 Who's abstentioned? – I find that the law did not pass in the first reading, which is to return it to the Council of Ministers in such a way that this high house interpreted that this law does not meet the acceptable principles and principles on which it should be based. I thank the delegates – the envoys for the debate and participation. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.10. The Act on the Information and Protection Agency of BiH – is proposed by the BiH Presidency – first reading You received the law as well as a report from the committee responsible. First we have a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded. With us, the session is also attended by the Honorable Chairman of the BiH Presidency, Mr Beriz Belkić. If the chairman wants to take a word for it, we will. There's no need. I'm opening a debate in my first reading under this law. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2132	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Belkić, representatives of the Council of Ministers and gentlemen from international institutions and the media, I would just like to say that as regards today's agenda item, the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission, by considering the law on the Information and Protection Agency of BiH, has conducted the debate and, as you have seen from the report, has become an integral part of this law, has become amendments that we have tabled and adopted, discussed, adopted at this session. Since it is about principles and principles and since it is a very clear determination of this house against this law, I would just like to say that it is indisputable that the members of the Commission who... have adopted the view that this law has been proposed by a constitutionally competent promoter, that it is in accordance with the Constitution of BiH and that the law is one of the most significant documents of this Parliament in this term, prepared for debate in the House of Nations and that we recommend that the principles and principles of this law be supported in the first reading. So, with particular emphasis that the positions of the BiH Parliament, with regard to the supervision of the legality of the work of this institution, are precisely defined in those provisions of the amendments that have been accepted on the Commission itself and which are eventually established as in all parliamentary democracies by full independent parliamentary control over the legality of this agency's work. It is the first principle that is important for this home and that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Since, in law, I have been particularly insistent on this area of competence behind the lawfulness of work, I considered it important in Chapter eight to define very clearly the responsibilities of the bodies to act as supervisory committee on behalf of both Houses of Parliament, and I consider this to be one of the fundamental principles of action of this agency, i.e. control of the work of this agency. You know that in the context of a discussion conducted in society on various affairs related to this type of agency in BiH, the central issue has always been how control over these bodies will be done by Parliament and what the role of the predsjednitvo, the Council of Ministers and Parliament will play in relation to the work of this agency. 32 I would also like to stress that only in our debate on this law have I made it clear that the executive inspector who will act as supervisory committee must also be independent in terms of his clear determination, when it comes to funding within the framework of the BiH Parliament's budget. You will notice that it is a very consistent legislative solution, which affirms the role of the BiH Parliament as a whole, therefore, of a legislative authority over an agency that will have very broad and clear powers. So I would like to welcome the fact that we have come to the House of Peoples to declare today the very well-developed principles and principles of this law and to support this proposal that has arrived from the BiH Presidency at this stage. Of course, we're open as a second-stage debate home, which is normally foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2133	The speaker, Mr. Tokić, picked up the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2134	Dear envoys, delegates of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, I think it is one very important law and one area that is in BiH, I would say and consciously suppress and not edit in accordance with international standards. I support the adoption of one of these laws, simply because they are a long time ago, I would say the most radical politicians who claimed that the entity is a state, but we still have state agencies, state security services and whatever you want on entity levels. And here, by passing this law, essentially raises one question directly to the BiH presidency today, Mr Belkić, here as chairman. What is now the connection between this law and several months ago the appointment by the BiH Presidency of SNS Service Chiefs, i.e. the AIDS and I do not see by this law any, in the transitional provisions of any relationship that your role as the Presidency and us as the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH ceases to be related to these agencies. By the way, I am obliged by the businessmen, or the delegates, to meet all of you by the law of the Republic of BiH, which the Presidency has interpreted as a service, which has continued to act after the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement, in accordance with the constitutional decisions of the Dayton Peace Agreement and under that law, this parliament is responsible for the control of the AIDS in BiH, which, of course, can act more like a failed joke than a serious debate. I think there is a good danger, without doubting for a moment a good motivation for the adoption of this law, that one chaos that already exists and is for me, I must say, as the chairman of the House of Peoples completely unfounded in the Constitution and I have raised the issue of constitutionality of the provisions or the whole of the laws on services, these three services, before the Constitutional Court of BiH, because in AIDS's jurisdiction under the current law there is a whole series of things that cannot be the jurisdiction of the AIDS without saying that the organisation and the operation of that service is fully opposed to the Constitution of BiH. About the SNS that I am not talking about the service of Herceg Bosnia, so it is not clear to me that the Presidency has allowed this service to be activated allegedly as a service of BiH, that decision, or tried to catitify itself, because I consider the decision unconstitutional illegal and, of course, the RS service that still has co-operation arrangements with other states, although the constitutional basis clearly shows that this type of service could not cooperate without the knowledge of the BiH State's institutions with any... I am warning all of this, because in the meantime, we also have a law on access to information, because politicians are cutting stories about democratic control and I remind you all that in principle this area that in serious states when taking over government first takes over. We still have an area where we don't know exactly who's running it, or who's receiving reports from existing services, and I'm afraid 33 is going to be the issue for the adoption of this law. Without prejudice to this law, I fear that this question will not be resolved and in my view, the idea of this law could be one of the first ideas of this law a solution to this issue. Today on these services, on their information, on their files, can be read occasionally in the media, timed when someone who has access there, I, as chairman of the dom of parlamentrni Assembly, have nothing there, I have no communication with those services and constitutionally they act under the law by which I should be one of the people who is terribly engaged in their control. I only recognize these services by different inscriptions, and I fear that these three services, which we now have and even more allegedly those that operate at the defence ministries, will receive one basis for a very non-transparent election campaign and not a basic function of those services, which is to protect the state interests. You know what state interests are. They're partly listed here. Here is so much in favor of my explanation, and despite strong support, the motivation of members of the Bureau aware of the difficulty of this text of the law cannot give consent and I am not against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2135	I would like to thank President Tokić. It's the wrong quote, Mr. Rodić and Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2136	I wanted to tell Mr. Chairman when he said everything was lifted but the rest are in state security entities. I will not speak because I am less familiar with what exists in the Federation of BiH. However, Republika Srpska passed a law on intelligence and security services two years ago. Therefore, there is no national security in RS. The law was regulated as it works, and that law was passed at the time with the consent of the OHR.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2137	Thank you. Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2138	I personally support the principles and principles on which this law has been done to me as well as many others probably interest me more, precisely, this supervision of the legality of the work what Mr Spahić was talking about in his discussion and discussion will be very brief to me because of that, which right there seems to me to be one inconsistencies. So let me just read two or three lines of these articles to see what it's really about. It appears that the Agency's work is being supervised by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The Parliamentary Assembly can set up a committee, or committee that will play a supervisory role, and I consider it quite logical and normal, but then the Agency's work report stands on the Agency's work regularly, the BiH Presidency is reported through annual and special reports. The question arises as to how the Parliamentary Assembly will achieve its supervisory role when I do not see anywhere here that anyone, or the Agency, has no obligation under this law to report to the Parliamentary Assembly about its work. So, let's see, I miss to say in some way that buckle between the Parliamentary Assembly and the Agency in terms of achieving Parliament's supervisory function over that agency. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2139	Thank you. The word came out for clarification, which will certainly be useful for the debate Mr. Chairman Beriz Belkić and then...
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2140	Dear delegates, I only want to say two things, of course I will not comment on this situation regarding entity intelligence. It is true what Mr. Tokić said that if this law is given to him by this home, if he is definitely adopted in the procedure, he will not solve these problems. But this level, too, of this law, was the maximum that we could agree to and deliver this text here. You know very well what I'm talking about, and it happens here all the time. I just want to conclude one more thing, the BiH presidency delivered this law and it entered the assembly procedure in early December, December 13th last year.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2141	Thank you. Spahić answered the word. Please report for word that we know.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2142	Since I have proposed these amendments, which have become an integral part of the bill that we should adopt today in the first reading and, since I have indeed participated in the creation of this part of parliamentary control, so I have not taken any ideas, but I have worked very correctly, openly and openly and publicly and publicly on the committee on many occasions. I would like to draw attention to Mr. Ivo Divković, who has very precisely cited a part relating to the supervision of the legality of the work, but there should be a clear one. In this amendment that's part of the law says. The Agency's work has been supervised by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Therefore, that Article 16 states in the implementation of the sentence that the entire Parliamentary Assembly as a legislative body is directly overseeing. For this need, the Parliamentary Assembly may set up a committee to perform a supervisory role on behalf of Parliament and it is logical that what has been established on behalf of Parliament submits a report to Parliament. It's a clean thing. I think we understand each other. There's no misunderstanding about who's in charge. So, the Parliamentary Assembly in the full assembly of both homes. Secondly, when it comes to how this is done in relation to other institutions, this Supervisory Committee will appoint one of the 20 inspectors who will be responsible for assessing the Agency's operational activities. It shall ensure that the Agency adheres to its operational guidelines and relevant laws, investigates the claims relating to the Agency’s operations at the request of the Supervisory Committee, which is an active role. He submits regular reports to the Supervisory Committee on all complaints filed by the Agency and its ropis. As regards the finalized investigations in progress, within the Agency and on other issues. So, finalized or investigated in progress. That's the biggest control I can get. It assesses the Agency's internal regulations. Issue recommendations to address problems in the Supervisory Committee Agency to be forwarded to the Director. This means that this inspector is a professional person, racingly responsible for the work of the committee. The Committee, as already read in Article 16, is directly responsible for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Therefore, it is explicitly said that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is overseeing the RD of this agency and one structure is being implemented, which in principle and in principle enables transparency in all phases of action and work of the Agency and its operational officers to the director and vice versa. 35 Therefore, I think that this argument, which we have first explained in the amendments, provides clarity of the position on the functioning and operation of this agency. The law today is at a stage when we talk about principles. I would like to say that it is true that last year's presidency, if I am not mistaken, delivered this document and I would like to say that we had an obligation as Home and then as the Commission to go through two stages. The first phase was to establish a constitutional and legal basis. That's what we've established, and we've already figured it out. The second phase is to come to a legal solution, in which the law becomes no longer the Presidency's law, to be precise, but the law of the BiH Parliament. That's the key to stressing. We are now in a phase when we decide on principles and principles and when we are fully open that every amendment, each member, we comb together and that, of course, we continue the debate about it according to the Rules of Procedure as planned. So I just wanted to point out this moment, because in truth with Mr. Ivo Divković, I agree, and that's what I emphasized. The key to this agency's work, as well as all the agencies of this profile in the world, and also in Bosnia, is parliamentary full control. That is why the biggest changes, as far as I'm concerned, were needed in order to begin the debate in the first reading, in Article 8, which enables, in no way, Parliament's clear position in relation to this agency. There are no overlaps between the presidency's responsibilities, the Council of Ministers. This is explicitly our responsibility, our obligation, and it's ours to take it into our hands or we're going to leave it back to general discussions on various issues. As for Mr. Tokić's discussion, which is unfortunately absent, to be precise, it will enter the manetogram, I started before there was a law on access to information, etc. and this parliament was chaired by Mr Šimić, in the first term of office, in the first part of the term of office of this house, by the requirement that in BiH all services dealing with secret and police affairs, allow insight into all files, not only politicians, I said that it is a shame if the House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives or any other instance of the Presidency or Council of Ministers deals with only the secret files of politicians, it is not this country that depends not on politicians. It is about protecting the interests of citizens and citizens of BiH. So I set things up, and I said it's a shame if they're going to spin around in a circle of fifty politicians and their concern for them, it's okay, it's necessary to protect the functionists while the officials are, but please, there's a responsibility to that service for what's called the interests of the BiH state, the interests of that state are the interests of the citizens of BiH. I've been explicit here, and the controversy is not about who it works for, who works with what it works with. In my opinion, it is whether we have a system that protects interests gives security and security to the citizen of this country, no matter where it ends, in the country and in the world. So, the BiH citizen we must protect. Today, we had an example of Macedonia. When it comes to BiH citizens, Špirić has repeatedly talked about other problems, today here is the issue of refugees. These are BiH citizens, whom we must take care of. Of course, within the world, European flows, or every Evropljan and world man who comes from anywhere in the world must be safe here and must not be processed for any games, intelligence and police services. Therefore, the interests are lined up very precisely. The interests of citizens and the interests of institutions and responsible holders of functions, and not vice versa, could eventually be taken off the agenda, and on the other hand, this law speaks of the Protection Agency as precisely as it is said, it is the law on the Information and Protection Agency for BiH. Therefore, it is explicitly based on its principles and principles based on this policy, within this policy. Why don't you and need a policy like that to run? I think that the debate that has been led on this and on our public debate committee is being held, mainly now can focus on the principles and principles that are my 36 convictions, by the Presidency, whether this is possible at this point, in another. These principles and principles are good foundations for building legislation in this area. The good foundations are transparent, they have full control of Parliament, they have yet to define the responsibility of the Agency and the institutions that exercise control over its work. That's the clearest thing for me, and it's professional service. It is not about any patching up and gathering remains of police intelligence services around BiH that will work in this agency. It's a professional service that needs to be repossessed professionally with world standards, it's a new service on a new agency, not a patchwork of existing societies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2143	We thank Mr Spahić. Mr. Špirić has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2144	Ladies and gentlemen, before I talk about the law, I happen to be, I hope Mr. Ibro mentions me by accident, but I think he made one parallel that's ugly. His relationship with refugees from Croatia, and he voted not to put the resolution in the same relationship between the two BiH citizens, who served the Macedonian authorities to deal with the branches of al-Qaeda in Macedonia. Please, I agree that every BiH citizen should be protected, but that they are inappropriate comparisons and I don't think that refugees from Croatia deserve to be compared in this way. With all due respect to every BiH citizen, but I think that if the BiH Council of Ministers, the Presidency and others were to submit information or a report in a diplomatic note with Macedonia, where the BiH citizens were staying in Macedonia, this country would make much better progress. Did they harm themselves and BiH, including Macedonia, or protect BiH's reputation in Macedonia. Or they were protecting BiH's reputation in Macedonia. That would be good if we had not only for this case but also for other cases. I'm moving on to Bill Law. You know this bill lies in Parliament for three months. So, both in one home and in another, but I didn't hear anyone say today what the reasons were, why do we do a little stalemate, and then we re-negotiate on a law that hasn't been applied to a decimal point. So we don't have a short memory, I'll remind you. My impression is that this law was written by a man of police vote, not by the initial vote, and that this was written by people, say international high-ranking police officers, whose professionalism I absolutely appreciate, but I have objections as a parliamentarian to this law from the point of view of the protection of the human rights of ordinary people and citizens of BiH, and it seems to me that these democratic principles from the democratic world cannot be implemented most successfully, unfortunately in the current BiH environment, it is my general remark. But I must draw attention to you when this law came yesterday in January of the parliamentary procedure and when Parliament was preparing to discuss this law, I was given, therefore, the name I received and the vice-chair of Mr Mirjanić from Mr Živko Radišić's presidency a writer. I'll remind you of the contents of that letter where it says so. During the review of the law, the Bureau also discussed the remarks made by the RS government and supported by a member of the RS presidency. 37 On this occasion it is... that the remarks will be incorporated into the final text of the draft law. However, I was subsequently informed that these remarks were not fully and faithfully incorporated into the final text of the draft law, which was sent to you for the purpose of conducting the parliamentary procedure. For this reason, I would like to inform you that a member of the RS presidency is still at the point of view of the above remarks and that, esteeming that you will, etc. To represent the interests of... I ask you, what would any delegate or MP do after such a clear warning? I must tell you that after this letter, I had a series of conversations with the metrics of international institutions in good interest to create conditions to work on this law and to get the text that is valid. I was promised that my reasons would be valid and useful, and so on. that will work on it, but here, unfortunately, we have today received the same text of the law, without a change in the score and any point. In the end, if we stick to the Dayton Peace Accords, we must say that the jurisdiction of this, whether by writing the Dayton Agreement, has been wrong and the Constitution of BiH, is a matter for a special debate. What's essentially whose jurisdiction? I think it's also about the transfer of jurisdiction that this transfer of jurisdiction should be requested. It is not the same to have the consent of the President of Parliament or Parliament's consent, nor is it the same to have the consent of the Prime Minister or Government, etc., but I want to talk about principles now. This law, now, let's cross and if there are no formal constitutional reasons, but let's talk about principles and try to create the will to come to a good legal text, and I therefore ask international representatives not to stop becoming simply a good text. I wish I'd heard a word about principles today. The principles of the law. We're all talking about creating an environment about the need for law-making, the fight against crime, corruption, drugs, terrorism in BiH, and here we have law and principles. I'll tell you what from my point of view is not acceptable. I prayed, of course, in all the talks to try to organise several meetings of parliamentary groups with members of the Bureau with the Council of Ministers with the international community to come up with a useful text. It's stopped somewhere and try to push it faster now. If we succeed, every success will make me happy. Article 2 concerns the principles and the departments are said to be responsible for the work of the Agency in the original text. I don't think that's good, that it's not good for this agency that it's a conflict of jurisdiction, and I think that the Agency that gets to legal power, therefore, that doesn't suit anyone, no matter how much wages or what they do, the Agency with police powers, which is an out-of-day possibility, therefore, out-of-dayton, that's the principle that the agency with police powers is creating an embryo of the BiH MUP. I beg you, why don't you make that clear. Do we need ten different laws to play hide-and-seek in the name, and to say that our desire is to create an embryo of BiH's MUP, eh, but in order to realize that wish, of course we must work in accordance with the Constitution. So I am so that all those who are chains ask for this area, consult and ask for a good legal solution. Also, in connection with that, Article 11 is about jurisdiction, where the balls are police powers and you know, police powers, of course, involve carrying weapons and you know in Dayton to say that armed forces, in which, among other things, fall and police cannot move from entity to entity, without consent. So I can't even carry a gun. That's what it says. Are we going to create a new cuneiform and how it's going to change, but we have to do everything according to the Constitution. So that's the principle of the law, and there's no constitutional basis for Dayton. If it is to be realised it must go through another procedure and Article 15 I have already said, the Agency is 38 exempt from all laws requiring the performance and disclosure, organisation and exercise of the functions of this agency. So these are three important principles for which I have asked to organise meetings that people face, to talk about making a good law and to try, of course, with Parliament of the Federation, to create a constitutional basis for working on this law. It didn't go off the dead end, and I have to tell you that in the House of Representatives, which, however, must be adopted in the same text, I have read all the amendments and views, the positions of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and that this law stands for these very reasons. Why there's no activity to improve the law, I don't get it. For these reasons, therefore, three essential reasons, three essential principles. One is not a constitutional basis in line with the BiH Constitution, the other is for the sake of police authority and the third is for the protection of human rights segment, which police also have to take care of. I will not support the principles of this law and, of course, the majority of yours is measured for the work of every Parliament and for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2145	We thank Mr. Špirić. The president of the presidency, Mr Belkić, came forward as a proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2146	I believe Mr Spahić will explain what has been done at this alignment. Perhaps Mr. Špirić doesn't always contact you who agrees, and when he agrees, it would be good if both members of the Bureau and I personally knew who confirms the final alignment when it comes to alignment. I'll respect that very much, if that's your personality, I'll check every time that you agree with something that agrees and answer this question where you have a dilemma. I am absolutely to establish a normal functional state, with all normal functions, with all the normal functions that every country has one day and the police and one day and the military and one day and customs service to know, that I am absolutely on that trail. If you didn't have the dilemma, but of course, I respect the possibility and I told the Constitution and everything else, and I said in the beginning that the Presidency had reached this level of content in the law and, of course, could not go further into intelligence segments, could not get into police affairs, we were kept on informing and protecting objects and faces. If you think that protection of objects and faces can be done with any signs or anything else without any weapons, I don't mind. The promoter, after all, said Mr Spahić this is your legal project now. Anything this House agrees with the Presidency will, of course, respect. Thank you very much. Excuse me. I just wanted to answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2147	We thank Mr. Belkić. Replica Spahić, guilty quote for the gentleman...
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2148	All right, gentlemen chairman, distinguished colleagues, Mr. Chairman of the BiH Presidency, Mr. Mikerević, I don't know, he was here now, but I would like to, since I thought we would be in a position to understand my participation in this project very precisely. My participation in this project is closely related to parliamentary control over the legality of the Agency's work on Information and Protection of BiH. So, let me be perfectly clear. 39 Secondly, I would absolutely not accept any formulation by which international police officers, experts wrote to members of the Bureau this document and they then forwarded it to Parliament. Since we in BiH have a clear structure of an organised authority under the Dayton system that says there is a partnership relationship between BiH institutions and international institutions that are installed here under the Dayton Peace Agreement, there is no dispute that this law was done with, of course, co-ordination and co-operation with international institutions in charge of this area. So it should be clear, if we need to repeat this a hundred times, we will repeat until the UN IPTF mandate expires and until it takes over that mandate, it is now quite clear to the European Union, there is clear that tomorrow we will talk to the European Union, today with the IPTF, etc. So there's no misunderstanding. We need to speak plainly. What about us making a mystification, but I don't accept the wording written by international police officers, the experts of this for the Presidency, and the Presidency was the perpetrator of international police officers, and in this case, it was signed under the text they delivered. This formulation that made me sign up for the replica doesn't match the character of this debate on constitutional, or on the foreheads and principles of this law. Now I'm going to use those two minutes to read the explanation of why the constitutional foundation here is as solid as stone. First, the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the article, you can see the Constitution itself, but the Constitution in particular 3.1.a) 3.1.g. and 3.5.a) of the Constitution of BiH. Open this up and you will see, according to which BiH institutions are responsible for fighting international and inter-entity crime and establishing relations with Interpol. Quite transparently said in this building where you are is also an institution called INTERPOL. So don't let us have these illusions. The reason for the amendments to the law I already explained, and I said that they were consulted on the basis of a debate with one of the partners, therefore, with the Venice Commission on the proposed law that was passed on January 15, 2002. I underline that all the information I held to because it was my job here as President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, when I received this law, there was full and explicit consent in the Presidency and regarding this issue relating to the Venice Commission. In other words, I have already mentioned some epistular principle that exists here that I would like to clarify to myself as well as the model of communication in a political sense in Parliament. I'd like to get all the letters that come in here, and if I have the right to, and I've heard I'm right. I would pray for a copy of all the letters concerning my work here as an elegates and I spermed all the letters through the correspondence of my put you at your disposal. Now I would like to say something about the basics and principles on which this law was based. First, this is the principle of legality, secondly, that is the principle of transparency of public supervision.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2149	Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2150	Just the ones. The principle of responsibility, the principle of accounting. I'm done.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2151	I won't interrupt, but you've reached out to the replica. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2152	The replica was that the constitutional basis was disputed. The replica was what it was, the disputed principles and principles. I'm finishing and I'm saying. If there are five principles of legality, transparency, public oversight, accountability, billing and efficiency, that these are serious enough principles for one such law, I exclude my statement to the next. That it is all right that I have said the testimony and the fact that for the Constitutional and Legal Commission, we are for debate other than my amendments, as you can see in the report, we have received amendments from Mr. Ilija Šimić, who currently holds the presidency, amendments from Mr. Špirić – 17 amendments, amendments from Mr. Momčilo Novaković, nine amendments, my three amendments and Mr. Šefik Džaferović on the Commission itself. In view of the fact that there is already no clear implementation of the constitutional-law base vases. I don't see why someone who is challenging the constitutional and legal basis today would send amendments to a law that has no constitutional and legal basis. I would never work. That's my attitude and I want, I don't defend, I don't want controversy. I just want to say don't put us in a position to go back two stages, two steps back. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2153	Thank you, lyapa. Just one explanation of two sentences. The chairman is actually Mr. Špirić, but since he is active at the pay phone, in that case I must chair. Here's the wrong quote, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2154	I thank the co-chair for correct assistance. You see, of course, all the laws must be talked about essentially. I respect everything the presidency does, which is done by the chair of Belkić. I didn't know the law was democratically good for him if only Ibro Spahić was informed and if he was consulted... he would consult me and respect me where he felt the need. If he thinks I'm irrelevant, he won't ask me anything. If he thinks he could... I'm standing at his disposal. We're clear here. But I pray, as I respect the BiH Presidency and Mr Belkić's institution, that they too respect entity institutions, so, president, vice president, National Assembly of the RS, Government, etc. And there's almost nothing controversial about it, but if we were playing with those relationships, then the legal procedures would be more passing. When I said this legal text was done by international high-ranking police officers, I thought I'd commend the people of the police position, because they told me so. You know what the problem is here when there's a legal procedure in BiH, so I can eat all the legal projects that the hand of the house write without getting fat, which is a sign that people receive salaries, but that they don't write as much as they're willing to talk to the public. That is, therefore, a special problem for BiH and it is a problem that will be hitting us more and more on the head, but I want to say clearly, since Mr Ibro Spahić has applied to the Constitution, that Article 3. Constitution point c. Decidant says. Entities will meet all the conditions for the security and protection of all persons, therefore, this is the Croatian version, therefore, of all persons in areas under their jurisdiction, the maintenance of civil institutions for the implementation of legal regulations, which will act in accordance with internationally recognised standards and respect for international recognised human rights and freedoms referred to in Article 3 and by raising other appropriate measures. This is exactly what the Bureau's jurisdiction in terms of coordination says. This is Article 4(4). The presidency can decide to support some co-ordination among entities in things that are not in BiH's jurisdiction under this constitution, unless an entity opposes it in any particular case. Now I'd like to be told what's unclear here. But you see, under various kinds of pressures, an atmosphere can be created for everyone in BiH, 41, but I am so that we can create this atmosphere in agreement. So, we agree to create and I said already, if I say that this law hides a clear goal of creating the BiH MUP, which, of course, by nod gives consent to the chairman, Mr Belkić. I agree it may be someday, maybe sooner, but I am so that everything that happens today will be in accordance with the Constitution and constitutional procedure, and I think we agree here. So, we have to do everything with the constitutional procedure and I think that these principles that I've been talking about, especially the police jurisdiction for this agency, and because this is a superintendent that no law is worth any law that doesn't have to account for, here's the question now from the point of view of human rights protection and freedom that someone from that agency can come to Grude in Chitluk in Banja Luka, Predlor, Mostar arrests a man so he doesn't answer to anyone. There's no time for a family member to call and ask what's wrong with my household member. So I'm telling you from the point of view of protecting human rights, which is why I was telling you the absence of law in this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2155	Mr. Špirić, it was the wrong quote. Time's long gone.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2156	Here I go. I said, "So principles are important." I don't agree with the principles. I'm not going to support the principles, and I don't think there's any need for us to shake each other up and rip each other apart. I'd like to talk about principles, and less about the need, because the need exists, it's clear and everything else has to be in line with the Constitution, at least when it comes to my thinking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2157	Thank you very much. Mr. Novaković's discussion. And before that is Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2158	Mr. Džaferović answered for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2159	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I went out for a pay phone to say that I support the principles on which this law is based, and if I personally think there was a constitutional basis and space in the Constitution of BiH in the part that speaks of the jurisdiction of BiH institutions to include some other things and other elements in this law, but here I accept the explanation of the member of Mr. Belkić's presidency in which he says that what has been incorporated into the existing text of the law is, in fact, the degree of what has been agreed so far. I say, I think in BiH's competences in its constitutional powers as described in Article 3.1.g. There is a space, a clear space, a language, logical and whatever you want to interpret, and a provision to install some other areas into this law. The authorities that are incorporated into the law are, in fact, a minimum of what the BiH state's intelligence is. In Article 3.1.g. The BiH Constitution says BiH institutions are competent to implement international and inter-entity policies and regulate criminal rules, including relations with Interpol. Whoever wants to correctly interpret the provision will need it, and it would take a lot of time and a lot of paper and a lot of space, because this provision has its broad facts. If we look at the text of the law, if we look at the essence of this law, which is based on this constitutional basis, then it can be clearly concluded that in the law of nothing that comes out 42 outside the authority of the BiH state. Simply, the BiH Information and Protection Agency is organised under this law, so it should have three departments.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2160	I would beg a little patience only Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2161	Department of Criminal Information, Department for the Protection of Very Important Persons and Department for the Protection of Diplomatic and Consular Representatives and State Objects. If, now, not talking about these two last DKP protection departments and very important persons, we look at what is the essence of this activity, i.e. the jurisdiction of the criminal information department, it will clearly be seen that this is a minimum of what is provided for as an ingenuity and as the jurisdiction of the BiH Civil Service. The department, because it's best to see it that way. We'll read what the law contains, compare it to the Constitution, and then it's clear to everyone. The Department of Criminal Isnormation is responsible for the collection and processing of data of interest in the implementation of international and criminal laws of BiH, which apply but are not limited to: manufacturing and trafficking in narcotics, international and domestic terrorism, illicit trafficking in nuclear matter, illicit trafficking in chemical-biological matter, illicit trafficking in chemical-biological weapons, international organised crime, criminal offences punishable under international war and humanitarian law. The point as far as this law is concerned and I say a lot more is that it can stand here and find its basis in the provision of Article 3rd point of the BiH Constitution, but since this is the degree of what it is so far, let's say a member of the Presidency could achieve, here I am saying that I support the principles on which this law is founded and I will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2162	I thank Mr. Džaferović. A delegate named Novaković came forward for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2163	My colleagues, I'm going to be very brief. I really think there's a lot that's been said here. I'd just like to ask one question, or one member here of the Ustv that is constantly potent and that in one twisted way is explained here. Namely, Article 3. point 1.g. says: The implementation of international and inter-entity criminal-legal regulations by gentlemen. We're not talking politics. What are the so-called first regulations of inter-entity? The ones that entities agree on, gentlemen. It's an interpretation, not an interpretation of it, of it as it was here. Of course, I'm not going to perform everything that's been said, but also one principle is very important here and it was in the first stage, and later, unfortunately, changed. The issue is that this agency was responsible for the presidency, that the BiH presidency could have given in the first version, I do not know how to transfer responsibility to the Council of Ministers. Later, the Presidency lost this, and if our suggestions were to make a more significant role for the Presidency than for the Council of Ministers, later on in the Constitutional Commission and the Presidency lost, and it was practically the Council of Ministers which, unfortunately, then controls the Agency and manages with the Agency and everything else works and ultimately, I would like to commend one concrete 43 contribution by Mr Spahić to legal practice and this is the adopted amendment which says this law is not to the detriment of any other law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2164	I thank Mr. Novaković. Is he guilty of allegation? The wrong quote is Mr Spahić, Džaferović. First Džaferović and then Mr Spahić. Everyone will come to the floor. Everything will be democratic.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2165	I will not qualify the interpretation of the Constitution by Mr. Novaković. I'm not going to give him a qualification, but I'd ask him to look at my interpretations in the future for inappropriate and uncultural qualifications. That's it. He said my interpretation was a carad interpretation. It is an inappropriate and uncultural qualification for Mr. Novaković and I ask you to refrain from doing so in the future, and I will not qualify your mutilation.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2166	I thank Mr. Džaferović and if Mr. Novaković has not mentioned the name of Mr. Džaferović. It seems to me that in the case of recognition, Džaferović reacted. Mr. Spahić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2167	Mr. Chairman, the first deputy chairman of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in the absence of Mr. Tokić, chairman of the House of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, please allow me to be precise too. Member of the 3rd Jurisdiction - relations between BiH institutions and entities express the competences of BiH from 1 a) to (j) under point (g) there is no false interpretation but a precise one. The implementation of international and inter-entity criminal law regulations, including relations with Interpol, is so precise and clear that I do not want to comment on it. As far as this article is concerned, to whom I have,...that someone who has made a special contribution to the development of legal science, this article, Amendment 1 in Article 1 adds Article 2. This law is not harmful.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2168	I beg you, this is a discussion of principles, not amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2169	Because I've been called here, this law is not harmful, which is why I've reported to any other law that allows the task of collecting intelligence or police functions at the state level. So this member is extremely important, because it removes suspicions that it is a special system and an agency that would want to compromise the functions that have been discussed here in the BiH state. That's why I considered it necessary to bring this in, but in any case, I thank you for the extraordinary remark and... which was great. I will try to continue to build such a serious relationship in clarifying relationships that will make it impossible for people to have doubts about what we do for good purposes. This is not a path to hell, but a path to a rational attitude towards a job that is of vital interest to the citizens of BiH. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2170	I thank my colleague Spahić for his hard work. He's not gonna be a pain in the ass, but he's fine. Mr. Jusufović answered for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2171	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, I hope I won't be long. Maybe I'll step away from the method of discussion at this point. She was extremely rich, I mean the debate. We heard the opinions and arguments we faced on one side in the largest part of our colleague, Mr Špirić, on the other side of Mr Spahić. I have to notice that I'm a little caught up in it myself. Are you a reporter at this point? That should probably be clarified. But, you see, I think we need to get to the bottom of this, because the actual arguments put forward on both sides of it, to say the least. For me, there is absolutely no full constitutional and legal basis for the adoption of this law, and I will not repeat those principles because we have heard them on many occasions, but we are playing with deaf phones. It's quite certain here, not only on this law, but on a large number of laws that there is a different approach to even entering the procedure, let alone adopting. On the one hand, we've seen it today, we shouldn't be mad at the argument that it is, the other thing is whether we agree. I immediately say that I do not agree with the argument given under this law and by a series of other laws, Mr Špirić, and if he does not state Špirić, then it is Mr Novaković. So I disagree. That's the interpretation of the Constitution, but let me be sure, as many times as Mr. Spahić has come out today, I am sure that at no time have you hesitated our fellow Špirić that he also does not defend his argument as well, I take you and Mr. Špirić, or we can reverse it. I can take myself. And no matter how many times he goes out, and I don't want my argument, he's absolutely not gonna hesitate me. It means what I think is the point. We can discuss it by tonight. It's not about this law, here I am through this debate by accident, not by chance read by myself before, but back to the program of work of the House of Peoples. You have this dynamic.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2172	I beg you, the agenda point is – principles and laws
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2173	The answer is essential. Here I will quickly cross, the essentials where the co-chair of Špirić said exactly which laws cannot go. Same explanation as about these. In fact, there's not enough will, there's no political will to put certain laws in the process. Well, I don't need to get too exhausted or what I know. I see too many replicas, this one, that one. I personally think if there's no further argument, because I don't see that we're going to get too close about this, because it seems to me that the law isn't and it's not a debate, it's a matter of essence. The point is whether something should be adopted or not at BiH level. Mr Špirić believes that under the Constitution there is almost no basis for this. I find it different, and that's the point. I think if there's really nothing new, then let's move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2174	We thank Mr. Jusufović. Wrong quote, Mr. Špirić. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2175	Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the agenda point, nor Mr Spirić nor Mr Spahić, but it is the point of the agenda of the Principles and the laws. I am, of course, defending my point of view and the principles that I have talked about as well as what other delegates can defend the principles that are within the law or offer some new attachments. I'm glad someone's going back six months and watching what Nikola Špirić said and not giving it up, because the constitution is not a matter for me in the morning and in the afternoon, so I'm thinking one afternoon, one afternoon, the other. It's written as a clear document. I swore I'd stick to the Constitution, and I won't give it up. I'm not defending others from having a semi-valid relationship with constitutional matter, a class like this, a class like that, and I'm asking you to stick to the principle and bring the debate to an end. I never spoke of intentions or intentions or character traits of delegates or MPs. It seems to me that I've stuck to the subject of the agenda forever, so I'm asking you to bring the debate to an end. Thank you. If no one calls, I'll close the debate and we'll go to the vote. So who is it to adopt, in the first reading, the Law on the Information and Protection Agency of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Proposed by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? So there's a majority, there's no entity majority. The law is going to be agreed upon, given that the chairman is not here within the legal time limit, we will conduct the procedure of alignment. I'm thanking you. We're going to the 11th point. If you suggest you request a break. Do you have the president of the club? Okay, no problem, here's your business.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2176	Although I thought you'd do it, because now comes the end of the agenda report of the Council of Ministers where we're safe to stay. It is the end of the line that you are alone, if you keep insisting on taking care of us to suggest at least half an hour to either rest, or to have lunch etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2177	Are you asking for a break for half an hour, say it specifically?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2178	We're looking.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2179	A half-hour break at the request of the Bosniak People's Club of MPs. Thank you very much. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2180	From the three Bosnian-Herzegovina constituent equal nations, conditions have been acquired to continue to realise today's agenda. Ad. 11. A report on the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers for the period 22 February 2001. 14th of February 2002 Minister's Board of Ministers. You have received a report from the Council of Ministers as a report from the House of Peoples committee. The opening statement on the work and reports of this material will be given by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mikerević. Here you go. We'll listen to the chairman first, and then we can do anything about the commission and the debate. Here's the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2181	Honored working presidency, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished delegates, distinguished guests. At today's meeting of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina there is a report on the work for the period 22. 2. In 2001 to 14.2. this year, which is the Council's obligation, i.e. the Council of Ministers, to report once a year on their work in both Houses of Parliament. On behalf of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and on my personal behalf, I would first of all like to thank you for the support and co-operation that the Council of Ministers had in the parliamentary assembly during this reporting period. I am free to say that in the reporting period there is a significant increase in co-operation and co-ordination not only on the realisation of the Council of Ministers on the one hand and the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also in relation to the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the governments of both entities as well as representatives of the international community in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We expect these positive trends to continue to strengthen. A high degree of mutual co-operation has been established within the Council of Ministers alone, reflecting good co-operation between the ministries, institutions and bodies of the Council of Ministers. The credit for this kind of work that has now been accepted as a standard in the work of the Council of Ministers belongs to all ministers and deputy ministers. Bosnia and Herzegovina has entered a very important period of its development. In the past, despite numerous problems, significant shifts have been made. I'll just mention some here. The macro-economic stability, a strengthened banking sector, completed refurbishment of basic infrastructure, price liberalisation, regularly serviced external debt, public sector reforms, increased transparency in public finances. The results we achieved during this reporting period certainly did not fully satisfy our wishes, but they allowed us to enter the processes of fundamental change. The Council of Ministers worked more efficiently than before. During the report period, the Council of Ministers held 55 regular sessions, 4 extraordinary and 2 work-consultative sessions to discuss issues from the part-round work of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the ministries of Bosnia and Herzegovina as the institutions and bodies of the Council of Ministers. A total of 1,042 points of the agenda were discussed at the meetings and the relevant decisions and conclusions were taken by them. During the reporting period, the Council established and submitted 62 draft laws in parliamentary procedure, out of which the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina adopted 25. The 31st law was rejected in various stages of parliamentary procedure and unfortunately 47 in the parliamentary procedure were rejected by 6 laws proposed by the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers discussed 6 laws in the process of agreeing on the Council of Ministers and will soon be referred to the parliamentary procedure. 123 decisions have also been made from the early areas of part-time work of the Council of Ministers, 17 under customs policy legislation and 134 information and 43 reports have been discussed and adopted. The Council of Ministers also engaged on activities that were not directly foreseen by the work programme, but stems from the delirious competence of the ministries and the Council of Ministers and which responded to the challenge of the moment we met. We also need to express our contribution to establishing a permanent form of partnership work with the Office of the High Representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the form of a consulting partner forum hosted by the alternate Council of Ministers and on the other hand by the Office of the High Representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina. These meetings are also attended by the prime ministers of both entities when the entity's competence issues are discussed. A significant step has been made to change relations with the international community in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is being looked at not only in establishing a consulting partner forum that has existed the inevitable way of working, but also in the co-ordination of state and entity bodies and the international community in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The objective of creating a partner atmosphere has been achieved and further development of these relationships must be no less than that. In the future, based on these experiences, we need to turn more and more contentiously, and the less formal partnership we need to say here is that behind us is the phase that we had to go through. At the BiH presidency's initiative, the Council of Ministers engaged significantly in establishing and providing basic conditions for the work of the joint co-ordination team to monitor and implement the kativity plan of BiH institutions and entities on the prevention of terrorist activities and actions. The team shall regularly submit to the Council of Ministers information on monitoring the implementation of the activity plan. It is precisely thanks to the team's involvement in co-ordination with Bosnia and Herzegovina's entity authorities that has been placed in a positive direction in a group of countries that are able to have open but not porn borders. And these activities have shown that the lack of adequate state institutions must be approached in the future with new, braver steps. Ladies and gentlemen, the Council of Ministers has been managed by three top priorities that will ultimately create assumptions for stronger economic development. These are the rule of law, strengthening institutions and economic reform. The rule of law is an absolutely necessary prerequisite for every successful society. The Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Bosnia and Herzegovina therefore wants to establish an untapped state structure, and in this regard we insist and expect that also in the parliamentary procedure, the state service law will very quickly be brought into line. A recent action plan to fight corruption has been presented. Although a significantly reduced black economy and the presence of unfair competition, the problem is both for foreign investors and for the significant development of Bosnia and Herzegovina's and business potentials. The degree of poverty in Bosnia and Herzegovina is high. Especially among the unemployed, pensioners, refugees and other victims of war conflicts. It's a problem that I don't want to turn my head and we want to deal with. For the first time in this country, we have joined the creation of an economic development strategy whose accent will be on the fight against poverty and the establishment of a more efficient social protection system. We appreciate that a special indicator for a greater degree of political stability will be a success in connection with refugee returns. The results on this plan are getting better. Compared to 2000, the results of the return on assets are almost doubled. 48 with 21% in 2000, at 42% right now. It is particularly looking forward to the fact that for the first time the rate of return to both entities is meeting in a positive trend of 55% in the Federation and 45% in the Serbian Republic, respectively. I am convinced that a higher rate of return on refugee assets will also be monitored by a greater volume of foreign investment. I thought that with these few inserates from the report itself, we would give a picture of the journey and you would consider this report and give the reviews on your part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2182	I thank the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mikerević. Whether one of the presidents of the commission and on behalf of the commission wants to explain something further, and then we can open the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2183	I just wanted to say a few words about the Constitutional and Legal Commission report that got this home. According to the report, the Constitutional Legal Commission unanimously adopted a report on the work of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and referred it to a further parliamentary procedure. As far as I know, we haven't adopted any reports, we've discussed it, but we have recommended that this report go into further procedure. Since I see that the same thing has happened in these reports with the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy, the only thing that satisfies is the report of the... Commission on Financial and Administrative Affairs, where it says that after the debate was conducted, the Commission has concluded that the report is being forwarded to the House of Peoples of the Parlametary Assembly for further parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2184	So it wasn't about adopting, it was about supporting the report. I think this explanation comes to us as a correct explanation. I'm opening a debate. Whether there may be a need to define questions first, or we will open the debate and eventually, eventually, the chairman may answer or clarify. Here you go, Mr Spahić. Then there was a Turjačanin, then Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2185	Okay, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, I would just like to say that the report is really exhausted as a delegate. That is why we agreed in the Commission not to open a wide debate, but to hold a debate here in the House when representatives of ministers are present and chaired preferably. It is very good that on the occasion of the report on the work, the newly appointed chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mikerević, provides us with a continuity. I know that this does not just mean continuing on the path of Mr Matić and Mr Lagumdžija, but probably means some creative step in this and about 49 with the natural function performed by Mr Mikerević as Minister of European Integration. Given that this is in the first plan, he would like to express interest in two things, so he would ask Mr Mikerević to make a second address if he comes to it according to these requirements. First, it refers to Mr Mikerević's real assessment that, based on such a report on the work of the Council of Ministers, he sees the role of the Council of Ministers in relation to the report. Of course, in completing the process of meeting the obligations from the Map of Paths. Secondly, whether Mr Mikerević, in this continuity that he launched as his own path, has planned to consider, on the basis of the report on work and the fact that a document called "entrepreneurship society", the social one, is a framework strategy for economic development and social policy of BiH, whether it is envisaged, whether at all they have been preparing, whether in the reporting period of one year from that time when both parliaments held this debate, there is some document of economic policy prepared by the Council and prepared, and it has not arrived to present it to the House. So it would not be a good idea to end the mandate to give passing assessments to this council, and let's say the commitments made by the Council of Ministers during the debate on the corporate society with the modeltes and the documents here in this hall with video film and projections, with a very professional scientific reasoned debate that we had in this house two years earlier, we would not wait another year for us to get some reasonable economic policy by the Council of Ministers. Thirdly, since I said that I would deal with only two things I would no longer hold you back, I would like to now ask you, outside these two basic requirements, as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, to say how much your partnership on the internal agenda with the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, at all levels, so on municipal, cantonal, entity, etc. as well as international partnerships with institutions operating in Bosnia and Herzegovina, outside Bosnia and Herzegovina. You have prepared a programme of transfer and transition of authorities that will result in certain obligations being changed in accordance with the Dayton Agreement for the next period between Bosnia and Herzegovina and its authorities and international organisations operating in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And within that, the fourth one would like to ask you if you have at all, not only in the context of the UNDP's general lobby strategy against poverty, any instrument, any policy of thinking up employment and education in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Do you have any creative role to play or wait for a settlement on this matter until there are twice as many employees and pensioners. And second, until there are more students and students than all school buildings can objectively receive young and new teachers, etc. So these are four areas that... Finally, I would like to ask you, given that you have only taken the duty to finally deliver to the Council of Ministers the commitment you had made to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament during the reporting period, which is that you finally deliver your Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers to the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a harmonised Rules of Procedure to find it because today, as well as today's session on drafts and predicate laws, this is not in line with the Rules of Procedure of Parliament of BiH and is creating difficulties for the presentation of commissions in working discussions when it comes to laws and legal acts that you are doing. Finally, and that is the last thing I want to say is that when we have a report on the work of the Council of Ministers for the period 22.2.2001 to 14.2.2001.(?) This is therefore the report we are talking about, I, as a delegate, can, of course, support the fact that you have taken responsibility for what you have done in the past term, continue to work with the same team. But 50 would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are part of a project of change in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a partner with the Alliance, and that you have not completed any reconstruction lower than the ministers and deputies in the ministry and I wish to draw your attention as an MP, as a delegate and as a man belonging to that political group in order to be necessary before you run out of mandate a reconstruction called the Council of Ministers' structure on which most of the functions and responsibilities rest, and these are assistants, these are different institutions, etc. We have never received an overview of how professional and comet Council administration is for all the more serious actions it is taking, especially when it comes to legal acts and when it comes to one area that is not mentioned in BiH. That area is called law enforcement. You are responsible not only to propose laws, but to Parliament for law enforcement, for respect. And I would like to ask you about this report that you, as chairman of the Council of Ministers, answer these two questions. This means the qualification and competence of the staff that the Council of Ministers today has, the structure and the way she intends to deal with these new obligations. And secondly, and in terms of, of course, practical things, how you evaluate finally once in front of Parliament the degree of respect or whatever you want your decisions, the regulations of law and the laws that you make. I find that crucial. Finally, I would like to ask you to explain the situation with the European integrations that you have worked so dedicatedly in the past reporting period and, of course, we expect that with the new position of Bosnia and Herzegovina you will allow a faster integration flow into European associations. I want to thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2186	Thank you. The point is the report on the work. Here you go, Mr. Turjačanin.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2187	Honorable gentlemen delegates, esteemed guests, I would refer to this report only, and probably because of the follow-up of the text that is on page 7, pardon page 8, which explains the area of human rights and refugees. She's a lot of me in a flat sentence, she says, "I'm reading the third sentence in page 8. - 'tribulation and resolution of issues of the health care of returnees and rights in the area of pension disability insurance'. As far as I know, Mr Rodić has on several occasions as a delegate, at least on two occasions asked questions in the area of pension disability insurance regarding extremely sensitive matter, which was the implementation of the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement and cited this series of things he has not yet received an answer, although on page 20 it is said that the ministry has prepared written answers to 19 parliamentary questions raised in both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly over the last reporting period. An interesting one extremely significant question could at least have been apostropheeded here whether or not it was answered. As for the very right of healthcare, I assume that Mr Ilić, who participated as the director of the Republika Srpska Health Insurance Fund, is also a witness that he may have dealt with the issue, that perhaps the issue was resolved through the signing of the contract. However, what Mr Spahić just said as far as the execution is being followed is that I do not say a contract in relation to the implementation of such legal projects, so that such a flat-rate statement does not satisfy me as a delegate at all, and it is an extremely, extremely unrelatable problem of the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's it. Thank you. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2188	Mr. Špirić picked up the phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2189	Madam Chairman, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, esteemed members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished delegates, you see, I have come to realize that today we have the agenda item Analysis of the report on the work of the Council of Ministers, not future intentions of what the Council of Ministers and specifically chairing minds do. When he wraps up his presidency, I assume a report will be found before the House or the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina that will submit to a critical or critical assessment of delegates and MPs. So I want to commend the efforts of those who have worked to come up with this report. A lot of statistical work has been made in the number of sessions held. Even this report could be discussed with regard to expendable paper in the writing of the report. Of course, some progress has been made, but what is missing from this report is a self-critical note about the work of the Council of Ministers that is desirable, because nothing is ideal that could not be better, or that nothing in Bosnia and Herzegovina could be better, unless this is considered an ideal combination of perfect and almost better in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If that's the case, then we're not in a good environment. I will draw your attention to page 11nd point 2 of the activities and budget planning activities where the Council of Ministers is very skillfully transferring its responsibility to the Parliamentary Assembly, i.e. to delegates and MPs, and that is not bad if it can pass this barrier called both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is the fourth indent, which is said to be – due to the delay in the adoption of the law on the purpose and use of the funds of the former SFRY concessions, we are further faced with the difficulties of implementing the budget in the section relating to the capital requirement of the specific programmes. The problem of resolving previously created commitments of 4.6 million KM etc. remains open, and this is the coverage of the budget deficit for last year, which we unfortunately covered in January this year. So the Council of Ministers wants to say it's not our fault. Here you go, gentlemen. It's all your fault that it's not there. I don't think so. Then the next page of point 5 of the activities in the process of succession of the former SFRY fourth indent says – the transfer of funds from BIS to the central bank in the function of preparation for the application of the law. You can think of the Council of Ministers passing the law to change the structure of the property that was in the account of the Bank for International Alignment in Basel, and it calls it a privilege to apply the law that has been laid down in the parliamentary procedure for 5-6 months, and I do not know how to reach that law. Then, the sixth indent - a conversion of gold in dollar value through sales. Well, that's the problem. It would be good for the report to stand, although it might be unnatural for the Council of Ministers to do so to say that by doing its activities, it has been among other things and the damage of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the amount of 16 million marks. The first report should state that the illegal structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina's assets has been changed in the past of the law, so that is the rule of law, and the second is that 11 million marks have been lost in the transaction in the substance because gold was sold at $1.73 per UMC in November and it is moving today 1.90. So there was a loss of 11 million KM. And that's not all. But I don't think there's an accurate report here – says a conversion of gold into dollar value through sales. I am interested in whether today's assets, i.e. the funds achieved through the sale of gold, are in dollars or in the euro. I have to tell you that unfortunately, the expert team calling itself an expert and at that transaction on the country's accident lost 6 million marks, because the Council of Ministers instructed 52 to the Central Bank also past the law to make the conversion into dollars, so after 15 she gave, if of course this information is correct, but I will say that we will check them out new, gave a new order for these dollars to be replaced in EUR. In the meantime, unfortunately this country's dollar has increased by 2.5%, which is about 130 million dollars, somewhere around 6 million marks, plus 11 million dollars of gold sales, because it's sold to the missing person, that's 16 million KM. And that we do not speculate, that is to say, if we believe that the story of Nikola Špirić is that political, pre-election, such or such, I suggest that this report be complemented by this information, or not adopted, without the House of Peoples forming a parliamentary group or commission to check these allegations. Is the change in the structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina's assets under the law? Has Bosnia and Herzegovina suffered any loss and who is possibly responsible? I think we can only get out of this situation by forming a parliamentary group that will examine these allegations and that is my concrete proposal. So I will not vote in favour of the report because it is not complete and I propose that the establishment of a parliamentary commission should examine the various allegations that the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina has not been denied or confirmed. So it's not 11 million, it's another loss. And here I am now taking the opportunity to ask the chairman if they have been sold, whether the gold sales funds are in the passive sets of Bosnia and Herzegovina in dollars or in the euro and have they been made, have two transactions been made? First the dollars, then the Euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2190	Thank you. Mr. Genjac picked up the phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2191	Dear colleagues, distinguished guests, a very important fact that follows the review of the Council of Ministers' work report is the fact that we have not yet considered the budget implementation report for the period covered by this report. This is rarely recorded practice and, of course, this moment will define me to a significant extent how I will treat this report, if not crucially. In addition to that significant detail, the report’s very record comes, i.e. one style of the report, which is discussed in some sense, has been presented, agreed, and is mainly about decisions, attitudes, etc. Very few real indicators, real indicators in terms of what gross national income was this year at the end of the year. What was the foreign account deficit? The total amount of foreign investments, etc. etc. In addition to that element, the fact that there are many items listed in the report, I would say unusually for the report. So let's say that he traveled where all of the chairmans of the Council of Ministers, so that all of the conferences, conventions that are very good and useful for Bosnia and Herzegovina, is unusually not to mention that the previous chairman of the Council of Ministers has not been mentioned or that man has not travelled, and I know that he has traveled, then he follows that it is not important that this man has traveled, but it is important that this other man has traveled. I think it's unusual, that you should have a correct attitude towards the chairman in both the second and third terms equally... The third moment that falls into the eyes when you observe this text is that the text is written in a rather unusual style for a report to be delivered to MPs, you would say in lyrical style. This lyrical style of general beauty, general well-being and overall good culmination when the Council of Ministers only makes an assessment that the results have been achieved during the reporting period can be assessed successfully from the aspect of the implementation of defined programme objectives and beyond the programme activities of the Council of Ministers' work. I don't think that grade stands. And I'm going to point to 53 of some elements why it's not standing. Before the Council of Ministers therefore says that it submitted 62 drafts of the law during the reporting period in the parliamentary procedure and that 25 laws were passed in the Parliamentary Assembly, that at different stages of the procedure, 31 laws and 6 laws were rejected. There's only one piece of information that's true of all the data that we've given here. Everyone else is rudely incorrect. The first basic to measure the work of the Council of Ministers is the programme which the Council of Ministers set out at the beginning of the year on the basis of the implemented, not implemented, based on the planned and unscheduled assessment can be made. The Council of Ministers' work programme last year envisioned 62 laws to be delivered to parliamentary procedure by October of last year. You have this in the Council of Ministers' work programme and you can check it out. During the observed period covered by this report, the Council of Ministers delivered 27 drafts of the law in the parliamentary procedure from what is foreseen and 16 more outside the programme, so a total of 38 laws. 16 laws were passed and published in the Official List on both homes, 16 laws are still under the procedure of the current and 4 other laws the Bureau has proposed are in the procedure, 6 is rejected. It is therefore currently in the 20-law procedure, not 31, and 16 of the Council of Ministers is not 31. 30 laws were passed last year, of which 11 laws the High Representative declared were 2 by the presidency. So what came from the Council of Ministers and adopted in Parliament is 16 laws. I remind you that the Council of Ministers delivered in 99 and adopted 12 laws at Parliament and 2000. 14 laws. Therefore, since very good co-operation and coordination of the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly are mentioned, I think it is essential that the data in this coordination and good co-operation be brought together. What is even more important about the law, however, is that all of these laws, which were delivered in the parliamentary procedure of the 10th term, were prepared in the mandate and within the current Council of Ministers, all of them remained from earlier periods of opportunity, and for all of the characteristics of the previous Council of Ministers and of this Council of Ministers, the common feature is that these laws are being prepared in a strong incentive not to put pressure on the international community, and at the pressure of the programme of real needs, etc. At the same time, there is no mention of what it is that illustrates this reform course and these changes. It also ceases to talk about what was one of the basics for the creation of a programme such as the 2000 Brussels Declaration where it is said that the creation of elementary assumptions for the integration of the single space and the launch of economic reforms, the fixed, tax system, payment system, banking system, working social (manage) need to be introduced, and some 16 laws are listed in that area alone. Two or three laws came from that area in the procedure. The plan was to get it all done last year. Of course, I'm aware of the reality, and I'm aware that the plans don't need too much ambition, but the report has to tell real indicators and real facts. Next, when it comes to refugee returns. It is very easy to make quite ambitious assessments, and it is said that the spectacular result is that the percentage of return to the Federation and Republika Srpska has been approached, and there is still a difference between that and almost 15%. It's also about spectacular percentage mixing results in a way that gets percentages that don't match reality. On one occasion, information was published in America that 30% of students married their teachers. And the whole of America got on its feet what it was, and then they found out it was a male university where there were three female students, one married her teacher, and that was one. About this statistic is somewhere with tendencies and tendencies of this kind of presentation very close. What was the plan in this area should be said, and the plan was to achieve a 50% return rate of 42%. Can this be considered a success? I think that this cannot be considered a success, regardless of what the Council of Ministers says – we appreciate this exceptional progress and direct action by the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and the Commission for Refugees and Displaced Persons who have created a positive atmosphere in their work and thus directly determined the process of returning to Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is said that there is no political obstacle to return. Political obstacles are reduced. However, in the year when Trebinje happened, when Banja Luka took place three days ago when an attack occurred at the Bosnian Dubica mosque, on one of the facilities, when an attack on...explosive devices took place in Bijeljina a day ago, it should not be said that there were missing political obstacles. It needs to be shown realistically. In addition, it should be looked at the reports and the budget and see that only 0.96% of the planned funds for the return have been spent or realised. As far as the vault area is concerned, it's really a fact that we're late for the budget and we're late for the counter-business, and I think it's rare that so much time has been recorded to be late for next year's budget. That's the facts. My information on succession issues suggests that the loss of these transactions could reach about 20 million. Namely. As far as I know, we sold the gold for $272 per UMC. The current price is $293 per UMC. Yugoslavia sold its gold for 300 dollars per UMC. There were our travels to Yugoslavia. I think the Council of Ministers could have checked that information on the way to Belgrade, so we can have it delivered here in this report. Furthermore, I find it unclear about the condition of the contracted foreign debt. The information that the contracted debt is two billion four hundred and eighty-three million dollars, two billion dollars and five million dollars. In the '90s, we had a report that said that an external debt of two billion two hundred and seventy-four million was agreed, and two billion were used. There's something about the data that doesn't add up. Turns out only two million debt was used for this year. At least we need to level the data. As far as the concession is concerned, I think that an answer to the question why has not yet been established is a commission for the succession of movable and immovable assets that should ensure the proper implementation of Annex a, because they are already disappearing, and we were within three months after the signing and ratification of this conflict agreement and the abuses of what is the subject of the annexation of aneks AA. The pitanje is therefore why has not yet been formed? The deadline was three months. As far as the areas of European integration are concerned, the plan was for the Roadmap to be met last year. Of 18 obligations, 8 or 9 were fulfilled and incomplete. We passed the Competition Act, but no competition council was established. This law has no value without a competitive council. We passed the Law on the establishment of an accreditation institute. However, the Institute for Standards and Measurement, however, currently employs only two employees and cannot respond to the requirements expected by the institute and Bosnia and Herzegovina as a candidate for a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. So, I think he's very late doing his job from the Map of Ways. That's a little bit said here, and I think, in the working plan of the Parliamentary Assembly, it should be given its priority. As for the foreign ministry, a range of activities is listed, however, difficult issues remain between the unresolved relationship between Neum and Ploca, a major failure. This is unacceptablely late beyond all international standards, and it also remains with Yugoslavia when we speak, so on our neighbours, the issue of property that was subject to succession, which has disappeared. 55 As far as civil affairs and communication are concerned. At this point in time, I'd put in the first place one question I'd say in dramatic form is tightening up. In fact, today we had a court law declared by the High Representative. This house does not accept that the law is passed, the law is existed. But nothing in reality has been done by that law. For the electoral process under the Electoral Law, which we point out as our success in adopting this electoral law, the second step in the electoral process for all complaints and should be the Board of Appeal in the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We don't have a court, we don't have an appeal council, we don't have a judge, we can't do that for a long time. The elections are announced on April 18th and the integrity of the electoral process is ongoing from that day on. From that day forward, the institution of the second-degree body must have an appeal for everything that is the issue of the electoral process. I don't know, there's no one in this room who can give an answer how that question can be solved. There is only one way for the High Representative to declare it again, but it will mean that we have not passed the electoral law, but that part of the electoral law has been declared by the High Representative. Which would be an ugly message. Or it could be said that the elections are being postponed. So this is what I'm saying about this report on how to warn this fact that those who need to think about this at least start to think about it, because it's really a fact. Foreign trade and economic relations. I am of course apart from what has been shown here that it has been done and that it has not been done correctly to compare the plan and the programme I expected in this report what is the external trade deficit, the external deficit in Bosnia and Herzegovina's external account to monitor the indicators. I expected it to be said that the gross domestic product is moving in these observed periods, because it is one of the significant indicators, and I finally expected indicators of foreign investment. Because one of the basic elements of the programme that was presented to us when the Council of Ministers was appointed was the attraction of foreign investment that was strategically positioned as a way of solving many of our problems. Unfortunately, my indicators say that in 99, we had 154 million foreign investment. In 2000, 147 and 2001, so the one we're talking about is 130 million dollars. So we have a marked drop in foreign investment. We're talking about the reform course, we're talking about changes, we're talking about successes, and what was fundamentally in the Council of Ministers' work programme shows this effect. Of course, it's an indicator that may not be fully collected all the data, but small numbers that can change this. For all of these reasons, of course, and especially because we don't have a budget report, I can't support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2192	I would like to thank the esteemed envoy Genjac for his very interesting presentation. Who's next to the word? The Honorable chairman of the Council of Ministers announced the absence. He had to go to the signing of an agreement or some protocol. We're in a situation now or we can wait until he answers questions eventually or we can approach a statement. It's a plea, and this is a yes. I see by the look on Spahić's face that we will get answers in another way. Is it? And here we have to define something else, it's process, it can. There is one proposal for a conclusion, and I would ask, given that the report, which provides for even the adoption of the resolution, should anyone suggest or conclude that the conclusion is precisely defined so that I do not interpret it here. 56 Before that, we approach the report’s statement of course. Who is in favour of adopting the Council of Ministers' report for a period listed in the agenda? - Who's against that report? - One with six votes for, seven votes against and one abstention, I find that the Council of Ministers' report did not receive the required majority. Mr. Špirić, if you could just read it so I wouldn't read how you suggested the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2193	So that a parliamentary group is formed tasked with examining the legal basis for changing the structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina's assets based on gold in the Banca for international alignments in Basel, thus establishing possible damages caused by the sale of gold and transactions with the Central Bank.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2194	Thank you. Please sit down. You heard the conclusion. Who is Mr Špirić's conclusion? - pet kao's against it? - Three Who's abstentioned? - Four please, five was in favor. Who's against it? I repeat my vote against it. Please all approach. - Four Five's in, four's against it. Who's being held back? - Five, four, five, he got the required majority, right. The conclusion is that we should vote, or it will be agreed. Okay. We'll leave as much as all the other questions for acquittal so they don't make a precedent. I note, therefore, that the report on the work of the Council of Ministers has been rejected during that period, and that Mr Špirić's proposal for a conclusion has not been given to the ethnic majority and is going to be agreed in the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly within the business period. We need to access the next item of the agenda. Ad. The Free Trade Agreement between BiH and the Federal Government of the Republic of Yugoslavia is proposed by the Presidency. You've received a report from the commission. Is anyone answering for a hearing on this agenda item on behalf of the commission or not? 57 here you are, Mr. Ilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2195	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, distinguished guests. The Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy received very high-quality arguments from both the proposings by both the Ministry and the Presidency and suggested that, therefore, it supported this agreement and proposed that it be ratified by the House. But let me make a contribution that was made in our proposal and some data. The federal republic of Yugoslavia is for Bosnia and Herzegovina as a partner on the volume of exchange and traffic in the fifth place. In 2001, Bosnia and Herzegovina exported $20m worth of goods, and imported $218m worth of goods from Yugoslavia, which is a fully balanced balance. So we can say that of all the countries in our environment with which Bosnia and Herzegovina has an external trade exchange is the most balanced with Yugoslavia and that it is approximately 1:1. Italy is our largest partner in foreign trade. Let's say the ratio of $657m in exports from BiH in 2001, and imports are 422, or the ratio is 1:1.80. In 2001, Croatia's second largest partner was exported to 107m dollars, and 474m dollars were imported, i.e. the ratio of imports and trains was 1:4.42 and Slovenia was the most unfavourable, respectively, because in 2001, goods exported from Bosnia and Herzegovina worth only 78 million, and 411 million were imported, or the relationship was 1:5.3. So since one of the Commission's conclusions was to get from the Council of Ministers a report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's external trade balance with the countries with which we have relations, I hope that we will have this report at one of the next meetings of the People's House. I am merely an illustration of this data and a confirmation that this agreement should be concluded with Yugoslavia because it is the country with which Bosnia and Herzegovina has the most correct trade balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2196	Thank you. This is certainly a significant contribution to the ratification of this Agreement. Unless there's more. Here you go, sir. Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2197	Thank you. I will refer only to my President's report. The Commission considered and supported the agreement. And all this out of agreement, this data, etc. The Commission did not consider it. That's what needs to be made up.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2198	Okay. I think it is certainly important that, in the context of commitment, co-operation, the creation of a free trade zone in the region, we ratify this agreement so that there is not a single discussion that actually has a different view, I suggest that we approach the plea. 58 Who is for ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between BiH and the Federal Government of the Republic of Yugoslavia? All 15 delegates, the envoys have agreed to ratify this agreement. Ad. .(?) The draft credit agreement between BiH and the International Agricultural Development Fund is proposed by the Presidency as well as for all these agreements that go and protocols that go to ratification. You've received a report from the commission. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favor of ratifying this agreement? All 15 voted yes. Ad. 14. An Annex to the Treaty on the determination of border crossings between BiH and the Republic of Croatia is the presidency. You've received a report from the commission. Is anyone answering for a word? I'm closing the debate. Who is to ratify that agreement? All 15 have unanimously given consent to the ratification of the Anexa Treaty on the determination of border crossings between BiH and the Republic of Croatia. Ad. 15. The resolution on health policy for all BiH citizens is proposed by delegate Ibrahim Spahić. You received a resolution from envoy Ibrahim Spahić as well as a report from the committee responsible. I'll remind you at last session of the House of the Peoples, the House has defined the obligation for this resolution to go to the Commission. Delegate Ibro Spahić, as the applicant for the resolution, has the right in accordance with Article 115(1). Rules of Procedure to get word for up to 20 minutes. Are you looking for a word, Mr Spahić? So it doesn't have to be a maximum minute. The Rules of Procedure did not limit the minimum level, i.e. the duration of the discussion. Here you go, Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2199	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, representatives of the Council of Ministers, gentlemen of the media, I would move to explain this resolution. The first reasons why we should adopt the resolution are.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2200	59 I apologize, I must interrupt the session since we have lost the quorum. I'm giving a break of 10 minutes, as much as I expect it'll take to take. [[/pause 10 minutes.]] Because of this interruption that followed for business reasons. Here you go. Mr. Spahić has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2201	Thank you very much. You see what problems I have on the Constitutional Legal Commission when two rise. Okay. First of all, I would like to warn you of the fact that this resolution is one of the natural needs of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina so that by adopting this country in the same way as other countries of Europe could do in a systematic way the ratification of international conventions in the field of health and health insurance, health science, trade and transport of medicines, poisons and radio active materials. It could also work systematically to prepare and adopt general and health regulations at the level of the state and to represent and monitor the obligations that our country has in the framework of associations such as the UN World Health Organisation and others. These are the basic reasons why I think this resolution would be useful to adopt. And now you'd like to make a few notes regarding our country's health care. Everyone knows that we should talk about questions that directly concern what we can do in this period ahead of us. And seven years after Dejton, we practically only have one agreement concerning equal rights that we were talking about today. Displaced refugees in Bosnia and Herzegovina and you've seen the assessment of its implementation. On the other hand, it is true that health care is decentralised and that it has been transferred with powers to entities, cantons including, of course, Brcko District. But what Bosnia and Herzegovina's central institutions represent in the context of global processes and global health standards is a simple position in which Bosnia and Herzegovina is ignoring the issue of economic poverty, ignoring the issue of immigration of the population, very serious environmental incidents and almost disaster in various areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the fact that infectious diseases are the subjects of our debate at both homes of this parliament, and that our border is very permeable for human trafficking, drugs and illicit funds, I thought it would be useful to put this area back in the first plan again in a systematic way. First of all, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as a member of the UN and the World Health Organization, is simply obliged to establish a global policy constitutionally required to establish a global policy of citizens on equal terms, which is: - a 21st-century health policy in the World Health Organization Assembly in Geneva and in Kopen Hagen in 98, has been defined as practically two decades in protecting the health of all residents under equal conditions. We are in a position where we have failed to reduce the health difference between the countries in this region; when we do not have any practical real solidarity from the public for the health of citizens within our country; when we have a declaration of poverty elimination and economic impotence of the population, and that we do not have a practical response to it in this area; when neither the lifestyle in Bosnia and Herzegovina is what is the normal standard of each man individually. Not to mention the diet of the population and other problems related to medicines, to the reproduction of the population, etc. What needs to be said today is that today, in any comparative report by the EU and the World Health Organization on the 60 health of the people of European countries, there is not one single piece of information about our country, because there is no place to take it. Secondly, our country was in a very high-ranking position in the end line whether it was 91st 11 years ago in 26 places from 51 countries, today it is approaching the very bottom. Somewhere between 40 and 50 places. Today in BiH, according to data that we have received here originally from the Council of Ministers and the Office for Entity Statistics Statistics and the BiH Statistics Agency, 50% of people without a job. 49% of citizens have no basic right to health services at all, 50% of citizens have no controlled drinking water, 18% without electricity, 25% of citizens are directly exposed, so not accidentally to explosive devices and radio-active hazards and similar other hazards. And finally, about Bosnia and Herzegovina, our obligation to this global health declaration of 98th and the UN World Summit 95 on the implementation of social differences is, in fact, putting us in one position of a completely crisis zone in which the rights of citizens, health as basic human rights, equality in health, therefore in the rights to health care and solidarity and the responsibility of its state for the health of the population. Take anyone in your family, test what his options are when it comes to his health care, and you will come to the same conclusions without great statistics. What I would like first of all to say is that many of these institutions dealing with the world's various programmes for a more rational organisation and more efficient engagement in this area also show that our educational system is, when it comes to any level of education for healthcare professionals from nurses to top experts today, in fact, multiplied and practically has a kind of loss of elemental quality and practically introducing new patients or existing patients into situations to be incompetent people. On the one hand, the enormous effort and work of health workers at all levels in all Bosnia and Herzegovina and their experience and knowledge that has been recognised both in certain areas and at world level and global standards, whether it is heart disease or some others, is not effectively evaluated in this country. In addition, the best experts we have in individual clinics and at some universities are practically losing touch with what is real. The position of the state in relation to their work. In doing so, I would like to say that we in the area of public health have had a long debate, of course as well as later in other institutions whether or not we need an institution or a health care agency for BiH. After all, the board of the office was removed and placed, and it is essentially a kind of health statistics that we must do in the interest of all citizens. We also need to do everything related to co-operation with international organisations and which objectively only state institutions can do. Then we need to make a plan for both the national and the environment, and for health, as well as to establish strategic interests in scientific research in areas that I have already said we are not repeating. See if Bosnia and Herzegovina has in one real way really programs such as health promotions for everyone, whether it has programs as specific as in the area of drug abuse, drugs, etc. I'm not talking about AIDS, all the other problems that are ever more present in our country. The health complex also includes an industry that is completely with us to say it comes first in the fact that everything that was once a comparative advantage comes down to one or two companies that, for example, are. They deal directly with the production of medicines, and all together this becomes an eldorado for all possible regional and global drug trade so that there is simply no investment in these very profitable organisations, nor does the state have any serious policy in this area. 61 In addition, at the level of the state, international social security contracts, the calculation of resources in health care, the information system, national health statistics as a significant insurance, the creation of a health insurance policy, etc. must be regulated at the level of the state. As far as health insurance is concerned, we should conclude in the end as a country that we can build commissions, maintain an office and give the Council of Ministers various tasks, but would conclude that we essentially have to structure our own society in several areas. One is when it comes to international conventions. It is second when it comes to the transport and use of medicines and intoxicating funds in BiH. The third is when it comes to mother and child health and healthy reproduction in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The fourth is health control. Fifth is environmental protection and radiation protection. Sixth and seventh statistical research in health care. Why this is important. That would conclude this exposure, as you see in twice as much time as expected. The problem of Bosnia and Herzegovina is that what it means to say is that we all actually break our concerns for our population, for our people, for our citizens, for our citizens, and when you take into account the fact that for some areas like this health, you need to make some practical moves for everyone, organize yourself in society, do some things that could cost as much as they should, and to ensure health care with a lot of solidarity, you would say with the full of naturally economic effects in this country, then you can see that systematically from one area to another we as a country have no serious policy and unserious work on it. That this is how the best number of medical schools and institutions testify. Practically one amazing decentralisation of functions that could be concentrated when it comes to specialist reviews, interventions and other disciplines that require investment in the most modern equipment, which we cannot naturally get in five places in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Not to mention dialysis or any other important part of health care in which a single citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot invest funds to ensure his health or have a chance to do so by a local community. Only society can do that. Technology is, as my colleagues here know, it's so advanced in this area that we should all basically simply stop ourselves and say why we need one such home as the House of Peoples to talk and as a national interest and national interests on the health of the population. I said, of course, our best interest in thinking about whether or not we should indulge in the verse. Here's what we've done today. We've brought in a few examples like this, that we have a bunch of announcements, that we don't have a practical policy in this area. Therefore, dear colleagues would invite you first to thoroughly clear this text, to maximumly criticize it, to make a maximum contribution to this area, including health insurance and everything else by...valid, people who are in special institutions, mentally retarded, autistic, etc. I can only tell you that from my whole life and experience with this threatened as Mr. Turjačanin spoke to one area, endangered groups in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and even in the region, we are actually showing whether this society has any basis for any humanity and seriousness in its work and approach to these problems. And does society have any kind of prevention and intervention in some sense of the word, or does it just expect the problem to escalate so much that no one can solve it anymore. I don't think we need humanitarian aid in this area, we need organized activity in this area. I am of course congruent to it for a completely different structure of work and these institutions and these agencies and ministries etc. Is it? I can't understand the resistance in Bosnia and Herzegovina, this is now my own quite personal here, I didn't say it in the resolution or in particular, let's say the formation of an appropriate health ministry, because I don't think that national 62 interests, regional interests, local interests, entities, if the state and society are well organized in the field of health care. Nothing. And I fully agree with colleagues who are attached to the Constitution as I am that all of this should be carried out through one normal procedure and agreed to really be such activities as this one in a maximum good and rational manner organised in the whole society. Decinylated, therefore, it will be accessible to everyone, but at the state level maximum, it will be organised to really allow everyone to have health care, not to remain on the margins of social life because they have no money, because they have failed in life, because someone has not given them a chance, because they have already been defined as immaginaries of order, they cannot come up with an opportunity to solve a health problem that, if they can be prevented and preventably later, turns into malignancies and problems that no one else can sort out in any way. So it's my desire not to approach this at all. I call upon fellow delegates to make your remarks, to see that there are several doctors here from specialists from work to gynecologists and certainly that they could make a huge contribution to their own work and life at last in an area that is purely your specialty. I say this on behalf of most groups in which I have been directly engaged over the past decades and speak quite openly in the name of professional institutions such as the Institute of Health Protection who asked me to promote this project through resolution and to invite you to install, with your own ideas, the best solutions that this country could make for yourself and for its inhabitants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2202	I thank the motion for a resolution on health policy for all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're opening a debate. Who answers the word for the text of the resolution? Here you go, Mr. Ilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2203	Dear Chairman, fellow delegates here at the end of this big agenda today allow me to say a few words about the proposed resolution on health policy for all in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, I welcome the launch of the initiative to discuss health, health care rights and health policy in BiH before the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina before there are many health workers among delegates and lawmakers. But when it is proposed to adopt certain documents, then we must assess whether what we adopt has a realistic chance of realising it. Whether these strong resolutions of the declaration, the recommendations only have a marketing character in which everyone is worried about everything and everything, and people in Bosnia and Herzegovina live more and more daily. By listening to today, and reading what Mr Spahić wrote, those who are not informed enough and who are not working in the area to realize that in Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to health and health policies, health care as a whole, we have nothing to do with the work, and in particular it is not true. Bosnia and Herzegovina does not lag behind in terms and conditions in which healthcare is carried out or the level at which health care is provided in health institutions and for its own. So we are nothing worse than health care in the former republics of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia except perhaps Slovenia, which has a higher standard and sets out more per capita for 63 health than we are. I am thus experiencing this document that was offered, which Mr Spahić suggested. So I think about this when I was saying whether it's realistic for him to come to life and whether it's real, because the way the proposed content doesn't have a lot of chances for him to live like this. The health care system is a very complex and sensitive system and therefore any intervention in it without a previous analysis can result in inconspicuous damage. It is known that this problem is in the exclusive jurisdiction of entities, i.e. canton, so my proposal would be that the text of the resolution arises from discussions in the competent health ministries, health care institutions and health insurance institutions. As a basic motive for proposing the formation of some health institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina is that we do not have a single health policy and that we are unable to respond to the demands of world institutions such as this. The World Health Organization, to which all Member States that have an obligation to supply data relating to vital health parameters and disease movements. I must say that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a member of the World Health Organization with both its entities and that health care institutions of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska provide their data on these vital parameters directly to the World Health Organization and have a working group that combines all that data at the country level. There is also one among the Council of Ministers for the Coordination of Health Policy and Obligations to International Institutions. Here we have, in health insurance, joined the agreements immediately after the war, not under the pressure of anyone on the side, but as responsible people, we have seen that our insurance companies have certain problems and cantonal health insurance institutions, and the Federal Institute together with the Republika Srpska Health Insurance Fund are working together to solve these problems. We also have some organs that we've formed together to be as effective as possible. In negotiations with other countries on health insurance for health insurance conventions, we perform as a completely unique state delegation. So I don't think we've damaged our insurance here anywhere, and the product of our work is this agreement that we've achieved to provide health care to our insurance companies in the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Unfortunately, we don't have laws either, let alone agreements so that this agreement has some problems in realisation at first because pension insurance funds don't log out and apply to insurance especially to pensioners. I therefore believe that the adoption of this resolution before the problems and problems it treats would give and the competent public health authorities of the Ministry of Health and Health Insurance and could be challenged if one of these were to go unnecessarily unnecessarily useful ideas. May this proposal or this resolution proposed by Mr Spahić be an initiative and a driver of these activities and therefore ask him to withdraw the resolution from the procedure until it is broken down by the competent entity institutions. I mean the health ministries of the Federation and Republika Srpska, the Institute of Public Health and the institutions of health insurance.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2204	Mr. Ilić, you're running out of time for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2205	I'm sorry. I've been here listening to debaters who've been talking for half an hour. I've had my first chance to speak for more than five minutes. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2206	Mr. Ilić, in the 10th minute of your discussion, and please, all of you envoys and delegates to read the Rules of Procedure. Article 115 of the motion for a resolution will take 15 minutes, the other participants in the debate may receive a word of up to 10 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2207	I'm sorry, I just have to conclude, but if the Rules of Procedure is like that again, I'm just going to ask Mr Spahić to withdraw the resolution that she, to consider this proposal in the competent institutions and there won't be any problems, because all we want in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we'll just have to sit down and agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2208	Thank you, Mr. Ilić. Who's next to the word? Mr. Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2209	Dear colleagues, of course, I will not use my speciality in the discussion. I'll speak from the aspect of the profession and from the aspect of some political view. From a political point of view, I am aware of how difficult it is in these circumstances to implement what is stated in the resolution. From the point of view of the profession, I am aware of how much institutions and regulations are listed in this declaration, i.e. the resolution needed by Bosnia and Herzegovina to benefit all its citizens and I would say necessary. So I support this resolution, and I think this resolution can be taken as a resolution that should be encouraged in health care offices and other health institutions to discuss how to start meeting the needs of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, I support the resolution and I think this resolution can be a useful incentive to start establishing what is necessary in this area of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2210	Thank you. Mr. Turjačanin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2211	Dear gentlemen, delegates, esteemed guests here to introduce myself I'm also a doctor, a delegate here, otherwise by a doctor specialist radiologist. I do not want to question the good intentions and wishes Mr Spahić has come up with a proposal for this resolution on health policy. However, I do need this Mr Spahić must be looking for some useful suggestions in the correction of what he put in place as the subject of the resolution that came before us today. The resolution that lies ahead of us is not now entering what Mr Ilić was saying about what I am also standing behind, and I think that before this resolution was needed to bring about a resolution, he would not be able to say thanks, but something similar to that of health policy, because we have to be aware of one fact, and this is nowhere to be apostrophe that in times of war and war, health and Republika Srpska, i.e. the entire area of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina has made an unmistakable contribution to the health situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina... which he has passed, unfortunately, is just one that I do not say the necessary resolution of gratitude would be... a far and more favourable position... 65 hardworking RS, whose position cannot be envied by colleagues in the direct environments that we just called on, also, in Mr Ilić's discussion. Perhaps this part of Mr Ilić's exposure to, in some way, equality, i.e. the provision of health care skills in the premises of EX Yugoslavia, or the current independent states, is not in place because I am just coming from a radiologist's congress in Vienna where I can find, unfortunately, that area where I work is not even on the tail of events compared to our immediate environment that I don't speak, that we don't tell the countries of the European Union where we are seeking some partnership and associations. I believe that this resolution should be the subject of a first-class debate at the level of the current ministries, as Mr Ilić also said to the Institute for Health Protection of the RS and the Federation of BiH Health Protection, a broader debate among health workers in the already existing associations of health workers at the level of BiH, as well as associations and associations at the entity level, and then the first title of this resolution is seen from one debate, and then the contents themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2212	Thank you. Mr. Jusufović answered for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2213	Mr. Chairman, I'll be very brief. I want our esteemed colleague, Mr Spahić, to give him credit on one agility, engagement in the launch of various initiatives, including this one, and to give him support, and to an absolute extent, the explanation of our other colleagues. After all, it seems little to me that Mr Spahić is guilty of going out like this with these initiatives. He just needs to move on, so there's probably gonna be a favourable atmosphere and climate that his initiatives come across a fertile toll.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2214	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2215	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of my colleagues, I would first of all like to say that I am very grateful for this intervention that I think, in the resolution, should express my special gratitude to health workers and I have said this where we have extraordinary experts and world and European experts but above all certain healthcare professionals who are still in these conditions real heroes of their work, and that is, I mean something that is not, unfortunately written in the Rules of Procedure, but I will accept that this part will be integrated in this relationship, which is called the preamble of the resolution itself. Secondly, as regards the healthcare provider, since it is a matter of health for everyone. So there are sick doctors, as well as sick residents who are not doctors, who are in other professions and that there is one strategy, I think your intervention that should continue the debate in these institutions with Dr. Ilić and these recommendations that we have heard from Mr. Jusufović really encourage, because it means that there is an interest in opening this problem and I think it is fair to open it, and it is not good to disable its path to normal communication. 66 The motion for a resolution implies exactly what Dr. Genjac said, and that is clear to me that we do not have the opportunity to pass laws today, because I know whose powers are, but we also make it clear that we must design in some way our interests in the forms that you yourself have recognised as experts in all possible associations in which you act, and we are increasingly lagging behind in this area. We shouldn't fool ourselves. That's why I intervened in consultation with certain experts. If there is a need for this resolution to be made available even after this session, which I think is quite normal, I do, I think it would be logical to give it support in the form in which they would allow it to reach those who are most interested. These institutions, associations, institutes, etc. And the public and that's why I'd like to ask the chairman, because it's the main interest that the path of this resolution, I know that the business it can be for or against or abstaining, it's the only thing we can do. Here according to the Rules of Procedure, when the motion for a resolution is explained, if there are no written amendments and if there is nothing more to enter into this text than this statement that I have made, then it goes to the vote and therefore I ask you to understand my intention, I cannot withdraw an act which is my opinion on a particular area. It may not have been properly profiled, but it is my opinion in a particular area.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-21-0.u2216	Thank you. Mr Spahić has just explained part of the procedure. Your very useful suggestions should be given to Mr Spahić between the House session and the commission session or the committee session. Your possible changes, amendments to the resolution in writing could only be given in accordance with the rules of procedure at the session even, since neither of them have any business. We will now declare this resolution, in a way that I ask the envoys – delegates Who is for the above-mentioned text of the resolution? Who's against it? - 3 Who Is Restraint? - 2 I agree that the resolution is going to be agreed by the College of the House of Peoples as a committee for reconciliation. Moving to point 16. Ad.16. Resolution on the guidelines for the development of agrarians in BiH – Proposed by delegate Ilija Šimić Spodnilovnika Article 114. 1.2. and our practice, I will first offer to the House, and this was agreed by Mr Šimić's proposal that this resolution be sent to the committee responsible. Who's in favour of this conclusion? - 14 for, it's actually unanimous. Thank you. We can go to the 17th point. Ad.17. The resolution on the position of young people – legislator Ibrahim Spahićpostupiti We will act in a similar manner as here. 67 Who is to refer this resolution to the committee in charge? Unanimously all 14 is in favour. Ad.18. The resolution on regulation of the legal status of the institutions of science and culture – is proposed by delegate Ibrahim Spahić Who is to refer this resolution to the competent commission? Unanimity. Thank you. We have exhausted 18 points of the 16th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. Next session, next session, we'll meet you later. Thank you again for your attention, your patience, your dedicated work. The seat's finished at 5:15.
