ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-09-0.u6567	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have an obligation to inform you of what we agreed at the first extended session of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly, where they took part except for members of the College and representatives of all the political agings that are participating in this House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have agreed and we have reached full agreement of all political parties that the issue of the Budget and the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions is a priority birding and that this is a matter which, by emergency procedure, should pay as soon as possible and as soon as possible the attention of this House and that acts on the other hand, which are based on the work of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. Rules of Procedure on the work of this house. Following this, the conclusion of the Expansive College is that we now hold a second session of the House of Representatives, where we would conduct the selection of the working bodies necessary for the functioning of this House and for the consideration of the acts coming into the procedure in front of this House, and in order to give time and time to the MPs and working bodies the 3rd session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 12.12. at 11 p.m. on whose agenda we would have the Budget of the BiH Institution and the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institution, and in the meantime, the commissions that would be formed at this mocking session today would have the opportunity to get acquainted with the text of the contents of the Budget. According to the BiH presidency's authorised representative, Mr Domazette, the Treasury Minister, BiH will not break the deadlines and will not have harmful consequences for BiH if Budget is adopted on 12 this month. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I ask professional services to determine the condition of the quorum right now so that we can inform them. I am opening the 2nd session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 2 Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, In accordance with what I said before the beginning of this session, for the second session of the Parliamentary House of Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I propose only one item of the agenda, that is: (a) the selection of the Constitutional and Legal Commission of the Parliamentary Assembly's House, and (b) the selection of the Finance Commission and Budget The Explanation of this Commission is needed in order to be able to respect the business procedure relating to the budget and the Law on the implementation of the Budget of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions. These commissions cannot be called temporary commissions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but we should know immediately when we vote on these commissions that they are committees on which and whose membership we can take care of when we are and that this is subject to change when we form all other parliamentary working bodies. This is, therefore, an extraordinary, extraordinary situation. We cannot call it a temporary commission by the Rules of Procedure, but as legislators, we have the right to say that the overall composition of these committees will be taken into account when the entire structure of the parliamentary working bodies, or the working bodies of this home, is established. This would therefore be just one item of the agenda (a) Constitutional and Legal Commission (b) of the Finance Commission and Budget with what I was talking about I am opening a debate on the agenda. If no one's answering their phone, I'm closing the debate on the agenda. We're moving on to a statement on the agenda. I'm asking you who it is to make this the agenda of today's second session of this house. My chart, I'd like to ask. Who's in? I'm certainly in. Thank you very much. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? I thank you. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina unanimously adopted the agenda of its second session. With 39 gasses for, no votes against and no abstentions. After this, I, in order for the Parliament Club to agree and determine the composition of these two commissions, am giving a 30-minute break. I'll see you in 14 hours and 30 minutes. Thank you, Mr. Belkić. Thank you to all those who have been unkind. Well, I'm glad to hear you say you're in a bad mood for a long break. That means we'll be more efficient. If it's okay with you, then the break is 15 minutes and we'll continue at 14 hours and 15 minutes. I invite the presidents of the political parties' clubs to meet me here at this table. We don't have to go anywhere from this room to determine the composition of these commissions. Thank you. 3 Messengers, may I have your attention? [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, may I have your attention, please take your seats. I ask the Secretariat to check again, there are several other MPs present here today who are not in the O.R. Let's get started. In the break that we had for some 16-17 minutes, representatives of political parties presented proposals and agreed, in fact, a proposal for the Constitutional and Legal Commission and the Commission for Finance and Budget. I note that membership in these committees is subject to change when we are discussing the overall structure of this House's parliamentary bodies, because this time we did not take into account some proportions that must be taken into account when the overall composition of parliamentary bodies is profiled. We wanted to get to these committees as soon as possible, so that they could do their part of the psol that's scheduled for the Rules of Procedure. I was authorized by representatives of political parties, representatives of clubs to announce to you the draft composition of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and the Finance Commission and Budget. I repeat, this is subject to change when we make the overall structure of the home, because there are no respects for any proportions that must otherwise be respected, and we all agreed on that when the rules of the overall structure are made. The Constitutional and Legal Commission proposed to the gentlemen: 1. Ćeman Mirsad, 2.. Sead Palavrić, 3. Nijaz Duraković, 4.. Paravac Borislav, 5.. Kunić Petar, 6.. Gligorić Tihomir, 7. Raguž, 9 / 8 No Niko's 9. Lozančić. Potočnik Mladen The Commission for Finance and Budget proposed: 1. Fatima Leho, 2. Hazim Felić, 3.. Beriz Belkić, 4.. The Kragulj Nikola, 5.. Miličević Ljiljana, 6. Novaković Momčilo, 7.. Filip, 8 / 8 Zorić Vinko, and 9.. Križanović Jozo I am otvarati a debate on these proposals under a) and b). Who wants to talk? If no one answers their word, I'm the one who concludes the debate. We're moving on to a plea. I call upon you, by raising these charts, to state who is for this composition of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Who's in? Sir, you have a red card and a vote is made for, or, ma'am, you. That's it. Thank you very much. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? - 1 abstention. We plead on the entities. 4 I call upon the Members of the Federation to declare who is to this composition of the Constitutional and Legal Commission? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? All right. Thank you very much. So we're just asking who's in. I call upon the MPs of the RS to say who is in favor of this composition? Thank you very much. So, just for. Did you count it? Please state the results of the vote. The results of the vote are as follows: 39 MPs are present in the first round of voting. The vote was 38 – there were no messengers against them, and one MP was abstentioned. By entities. The Federation of BiH said 26 were from the RS for 11 and I find that the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives adopted this proposal and chose this composition of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Moving to point b) Under 1. I'm asking you who's so that in this composition as I read it at the beginning we have a financial committee and a budget. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Abstained? By entities. Who's from the Federation for? Thank you. Who's from RS for? Thank you. The results of the vote are as follows: A total of 39 MPs are present. 38 -- there were no MPs against the vote, and one MP was abstentioned. By entities. There were 26 MPs from the Federation of BiH. There were 11 MPs from Republika Srpska, and I agree that we have chosen the Commission for Finance and Budget. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before I conclude the work of the 2nd session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I would like to inform you that, according to the decision of the Extended College of the 3rd session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, it is scheduled for Thursday 12.12. at 11 p.m. and that it is proposed: 1. Budget of BiH institutions 2. The law on the execution of the budget of the BiH institution will serve this oral notice instead of a call. We'll also make calls right now, but if someone doesn't accidentally get a call to know that it's a House of Representatives session, the 3rd session to discuss Budget 12.12 on Thursday at 11 o'clock, and one more thing. I would like to inform you, or I would like to invite the members of the elected committees to hold their meetings here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly building on Thursday at 9am and 30 minutes, so that both they and the MPs can analyse the text of the Budgets they have, so that they can take their views on the proposal. So, session committees on Thursday at 9:00 and 30 minutes. I'm closing the second session. Thank you very much. I'll see you if Bog gives you Thursday. The seat is over.
