ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2912	... the means of information, I am opening the 24th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, at the very beginning, I would like to conclude that the session is attended by 13 delegates of that 4 from the order of the Serb people, 4 from the order of the Croatian people and 5 from the order of the Bosniak people, which means that we can work at the quorum and make full and full decisions. So here we have 14 delegates. So we have a quorum. For the 24th session, the following agenda is proposed: 1. Response to delegate issues and delegates; 2. The adoption of minutes 22 and 23 of the House of Commons; 3. The Commission's report to the People's House College on efforts to reach agreement on a resolution on the original financing of BiH institutions and international obligations, proposed by delegates Sejfudin Tokić; 4. Law amending and supplementing the Central Bank Act – Second reading, Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 5. Law amending the Law on Industrial Property in BiH, second reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 6. The Law on Features, Second Reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 7. The Law on Gender Equality and Gender Equality in BiH, Second Reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 8. Criminal law of BiH – first reading, Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 9. Law on the movement and residence of foreigners and asylum, first reading – Proposer of the World of Ministers; 10. The Sarajevo capital law – first reading – is proposed by delegate Ibrahim Spahić; 11. The Act on the Agency for Labour and Employment, first reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 12. Law on the use and protection of the name BiH, first reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 13. Law amending the law on the transfer and regulator and operator of the electricity system in BiH, first reading – legislator Ivo Divković; 14. Law on executive proceedings before the Court of Justice, first reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 15. Proposal for a law on cooperatives, first reading - delegates Nikola Špirić, Ilija Šimić and Sejfudin Tokić; 16. Proposal for a Law on Veterinary of BiH, first reading – Proposer Council of Minsitare; 2 17. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the BiH Air Force Act, first reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 18. Decision on the establishment of printing operations of state interest – Proposer of delegate Sejfudin Tolić; 19. Ratification of the development loan agreement – road management and security project between BiH and the World Bank; 20. Report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international commitments for 2001; 21. Report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for BiH for period 1. - 3rd financial year 2002; 22. Report on the work of the Commission on the status of naturalised persons in the period 6.4.92. the year until the entry into force of the Constitution of BiH, Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 23. Taking a stand on the issue of gaining citizenship towards persons who were members of the BiH Armed Forces after 15.12.1995; 24. Information from the Council of Ministers on the process of adopting a regulation on the quality of petroleum products; 25. Interruption of delegate Ibrahim Spahić. So, you heard the agenda set out by the College, proposed by the College of the House of Peoples. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Here you go. The word is from delegate Ibrahim Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2914	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask only one question about today's session and agenda, so if you could answer immediately that I would not ask for a new intervention. What made the point, which was formulated by one delegate on 7 May 2002 in connection with an economic and social policy of interpelation, which in June, July, August, September, waited four months for the agenda of the 25th agenda? Since a month ago, the answer finally arrived that the Council of Ministers took views and gave answers to the interpretation and to the request of our colleague. Just answer immediately if I can and nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2915	The answer is that Ms. Azra Hadžiahmetović's resolute minister is on her way to ask it to be the last item of the agenda, because there is a possibility of coming as we consider it to be an opening investment.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2916	In that case, I'm okay with it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2917	And another explanation. I have an announcement that Mr. Belkić and Mr. Ante Domazet's vault minister are left behind, and I am obliged to inform the House. So, at the request of the Resolute Ministry. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2918	All right. As for the Secretary-General, that's not the way it stands. According to the Rules of Procedure, one who has submitted the interpretation must speak first and then submits the answer, and cannot tolerate the inaugural exposure of the minister. It's a completely reverse thing. They're not the ones who've given us an interpretation. We're the ones who told them, but we'll clear that up at the agenda point on the 25th. The second thing, as regards the agenda, I think it is very difficult to ask for an amendment to the agenda today, given that the session is scheduled with 25 points of the agenda, and that it should be respected that we have made preparations in the Constitutional and Legal Commission and other committees so that this session may accept certain documents, but since it is the agenda and I do not believe that there will be a second chance to do so, I find it extremely important to propose an initiative, it is also on the agenda as the 26th item of the agenda. I therefore call on my colleagues from the House of People to propose that during the month of September, a joint session of the National House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was held by September, at the latest by half of September, in connection with the fact that both the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples adopted the text on the draft law on national minorities in a different text and that there is a committee appointed by the People's House and I expect the House of Representatives to do so, it would be correct that an important document, as the law on the protection of representatives of national minorities, would be discussed and adopted. It is only necessary to agree on the Commission of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples that position, and I think it would be very useful for this Parliament to conclude its work by adopting a law on the protection of representatives of national minorities, given that two texts in different forms have been adopted in both homes and I think it is a shame to transpose it into another mandate, if possible. Of course, I'm not saying it's necessary. It's about one big job as a big task both the Council of Ministers and our home and our other home. As for the 26th point of the initiative for the joint session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly until 15th, it relates to the following. The second item of the agenda, that is, a point which, apart from the harmonisation of this law, could be a central point, however much it may seem now that I am going to say in some way a challenge once we are facing, given the elections, I would like the joint session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to have on the agenda one point that is not in any way bypassed after all this has happened in recent days. I propose an initiative on the 26th item of the agenda relating to the law on national minorities, and for the 27th point in order not to confuse it, I believe that the BiH Parliament after that is 27th and 26th is special and 27th refers to an initiative that would be a special session of that joint home, both at home, and refers to the information that we received from, in public, I never even knew it existed, but I read it two days ago, I didn't even know its form and role that there was a Bureau of Relations with The Hag of the Vlada of the RS. I am looking for a joint session of the BiH Parliament, because if one body in BiH happens, whether it is the Government of the RS, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia or any other body accepts and does not reject this bureau's report, I think that BiH, as Denis Mekšain said, is the foreign minister of Great Britain skating into one situation in which it would legitimise the position to
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2919	I would ask Mr Spahić for the material he wrote and read to be part of the agenda. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2920	I don't read anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2921	You suggested that it be, suggest the 26th point of harmonisation of the laws by the Rules of Procedure working on a joint commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2922	It is 27.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2923	I beg you to conclude with the agenda, I will take your word for it, because you must.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2924	In conclusion, for today's agenda I suggest
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2925	There's no show here.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2926	For the 27th point, I propose an initiative to hold a joint session unless there is a rejection of the Bureau of Relations's report with The Hague in the RS government. So, unless it comes, that this initiative stands as alive, because it will cause complete implications bad for BiH in the international community and for internal relations, and I think it would create a complete climate the same as the climate produced by the Croatian self-government last year. It is unacceptable on this example, he said, again, to underline, that we are BiH citizens in a position, in a way, the tombs of one, one political option, and I propose that the 27th initiative remain alive and ask that the College consider this unless this report is rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2927	Thank you. Mr. Divković's delegate came forward for the word. Please define the agenda points in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2928	Mr. Chairman, dear fellow ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Croatian Club, I will propose to supplement the agenda with two points of the agenda. The first point is that we are proposing information on the expropriation of the ground at Arizona Market by the authority of the Brcko District Authority. The explanation is that last month we sent the initiative to the Parliamentary Assembly to prepare such information and to put it on the agenda and I, indeed, was not informed of the nav ravi way why it was not put in place, and the reason is that only the Parliamentary Assembly is responsible and has jurisdiction when asking the Brcko District because it is in accordance with the Brcko District Constitution under the authority of the BiH state. The situation here is about expropriation of Hrvat land that has caused a lot of controversy in the public, so I would say political and pre-election manipulations. We have estimated that it is perfectly natural that 5 Hrvat Clubs here are looking for this information and that all, possibly, disinformation about this elimination site, so that all the public of BiH and parliamentarians know what it is. Our second proposal is to follow Article 76. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly put the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of BiH on the agenda and we propose that this be considered in accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House, since it is a very precise and clearly defined proposal, and the keeping is that of Article 5. The BiH Constitution envisions representatives of Hrvat, Bošnjak and Srbin, or members of the presidency of the three nations, sitting in the BiH presidency. Unfortunately, the Electoral Law does not specify that, according to the last census, there are certain speculations in the media, etc. Yes, and when it comes to candidates for members of the Croatian people's presidency, everyone on the last list did not all plead as Hrvat. There you go. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2929	I thank delegate Divković. Who's next to the word? I beg you in writing to deliver it to me. A delegate, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2930	Dear colleagues, at the 20th session held on 25 June, we adopted the conclusion that within two months, the Council of Ministers, together with OHR and the competent entity ministries, is preparing information on illegal assignments of state land and that information is being considered. I suggest that we implement our conclusion and put a point in the agenda today called information on illegal assignments of state land. At that point, the Council of Ministers would inform about what it has done to obtain information, whether anything has been done and whether this point can be considered today or what it is doing to consider this information at least within a period of time, if the deadline has already been established.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2931	I'd like to thank the delegate, Genjac. Who's next to the word? Here you go. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2932	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, esteemed guests, I'm not taking the stand of the club, I'm taking a personal stand. So my position and he primarily refers to the general agenda for today's session of the House of Peoples. I think, indeed, let me say some mild expression to the unserious of the College that at the last session of the House of Peoples in this session, it proposes from the regular point of 8 to the regular point of the 16th law in the first reading on which a second convocation of the House should be discussed in the second reading. So, we need to discuss some other assembly of the House. Therefore, some other delegates, who, of course, did not submit amendments to those laws and are not in a position to defend the amendments of those who submitted them, and those who submitted them again will not be in a position to defend them. So it's something I don't believe is smart or good. I don't think this practice certainly contributes to the serious and successful work of this 6 home, which I think, too, can be said in such a way for this year and a half. I, of course, know that there are mandatory points of the agenda and that at this point it is not possible to take these points off the agenda, but also, I know that this way of working all the happiness that has not been a practice in the whole term. So, regardless of the business possibility, I stay with the proposal that the club presidents, meaning all three clubs sit together with the kolegij and agree on the law in the first question, or whether we discuss the laws in the first reading or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2933	I thank Mr. Novaković. I ask that the discussions be on the agenda and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It is known how the agenda is determined by the Rules of Procedure. Fortunately for this home, the College has a full consensus that everything that's been past the commission phase is ready. It must not wait for these or those reasons and will be the subject of a parliamentary debate, and it is the will of the delegates to state their position on all decisions in the way of voting for or against. So, please, it's no good when we put the laws on the agenda, it's no good when you don't, so what should we do? Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm finishing my dispersion. We will now declare ourselves on the proposed changes to the agenda. The first amendments were submitted by the delegate, Mr Spahić, who submitted the 26th item of the agenda. Initiative to hold an extraordinary session of the House of People and the House of Representatives for the adoption of laws on national minorities. Who's up for this? - Who's against it? - 4 Who Is Restraint? - 2 Please, I want to explain why it is like this. It is impossible in this way to give initiatives out of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Spahić. The law was adopted in a different text in two homes and there are committees under the Rules of Procedure that need to bring it into line. That's why I was against it because we have to stick to the Rules of Procedure. We're going to go to an advanced, 27th-point agenda. I understand Mr Spahić's proposal has not been adopted. The initiative for a session of both homes regarding the RS government's report on relations with The Hag, unless the report is rejected in RS. Who's for this part of the agenda? - 8 Who's against it? - 5 Who's abstentioned? There isn't. I find that this point is not included in the agenda either. We're moving on to the proposal of delegate Halid Genjac. Information on the illegal distribution of state land, Mr. Genjac is up and then Divković. I know it was the conclusion of our home. The Council of Ministers was obliged to file a report against our conclusion. 7 Who is it that this item of the agenda is included in Genjchev? - 11 Who's against it? - Are there any glimmers? – 2 I find that this item of the agenda is included as the 26th point of the agenda. I ask the Council of Ministers to prepare the information so they can conduct the debate. We have a proposal for delegates from the Croatian club, which was presented by Mr. Divković. First information on land expropriation at Arizona Market by the authorities of Brcko District. Who's to include this point? - 7 Who's against it? - Who's being held back? - 4 I find that this item of the agenda has not been agreed to become a part of the agenda. I voted against it for a reason because we don't have any valid material. We're moving on to another proposal. How much is it for and how much is it against? - 7 for - 4 against and 2 abstentions. Well, then, I suggest we do it again. Who's in order for this point to be included? - Five for who's against it? - 2 Who's abstentioned? Five, I figure she didn't get most of it. Not included in the agenda. We're going to agenda two. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law. Who's that? I don't think election law can be changed during the election campaign, but who's in favour of this proposal? - Four for it. Who's against it? - 4 Who Is Restraint? – 3 4 for – 4 against – 3 abstentions. I find that this point is not included in the agenda either. So, we're crossing ladies and gentlemen, there's no need to vote on the Rules of Procedure for this agenda, because these are mandatory agenda points. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the first item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2934	The chairman, since our agenda was clearly past in the first vote, you reiterated a vote in which the second round did not pass. That's me on behalf of the club, now we've agreed to request a 15-minute break to consult to see how we continue working under these conditions.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2935	Okay. Time out for 15 minutes. 8 Let's go. [[PAUZA]] We're done taking a break on request. Please, Mr. Novaković, a break has been completed at the request of delegates from the Croatian People's Club. They will come and the co-chairs have the necessary obligations. When I need them, I'll ask them to help me. We're moving on, ladies and gentlemen, to the first item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2936	Don't break the Poslvonik.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2937	Here you go. I don't mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2938	You are Poslvonik of the fact that when someone asks for a break – the club to give him a first word to explain why he asked for it and what attitude it is there. The Hrvat Club is asking before moving to the first item of the agenda to announce the results of the first vote on our proposal when it comes to information. Here officially to report the results as they were.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2939	I thank you for giving the Secretariat a chance to say so. Every delegate has the right to request that the vote be repeated on a business basis. I asked for it. The vote is repeated. I ask that this report be part of the report too. So, first and second votes. So, every delegate has first to ask if something is unclear for his voice to be repeated. I have asked for this and I ask the Secretariat's report for both the first and the second vote. Here we are waiting for the sekretarijat to report. Here's the pay phone secretary, so let me know.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2940	Mr. Chairman, in the first vote, the vote was 7 – against 2 – bloated 4. In the second round there were 5 for – 2 against and – 5 supported.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2941	Here you go, Mr. Divković has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2942	Mr. Chairman, it is obvious that in the first vote the proposal has passed, after all, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and it has been increasingly a classic manipulation with a goal, unfortunately, we interpret it so much here, that when it comes to their interests in this House, it is difficult to come and talk about on the agenda. We Hrvat, unless this point is placed on the agenda, according to the first vote, are again seeking a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2943	I don't know how we're gonna do it. Here's a half-hour break. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2944	Mr. President, fellow envoys, gentlemen ministers, distinguished guests, it may be clear to me that there are shepherds and locks here. I just want to say publicly that I'm not a lock. So, the president can't vote for no reason at all. The fact that there are five-year-olds here or what I know, morons, maybe that's how it can be done. Why is the vote re-voted? That's the main question. It is similar material proposed by Mr. Genjac and we, of course, voted and voted on the agenda. Does this mean that someone needs to be tributed by some people in some BiH area? Does that mean that there's someone sitting here about lobbying that's mob business up there, possibly mob business? So take away the land of the Hrvat and wipe out. I do not want to participate in ethnic cleansing in such a way, and I think you have hurt the Rules of Procedure, because you have not explained why you requested a re-election. Something similar happened in the last session. You have not now explained the position of the Kolegiaj on the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure since last session. I don't think that's how it can be done. I think the interpretation of Mr. Secretary's first vote 7 – 2 – 5 was then adopted and no vote could be repeated for no valid reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2945	Thank you. Is anyone else picking up? Does the club insist on a half-hour break?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2946	Chairman, would you explain to us why the second round of voting is metricated and not the first?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2947	Would you like to vote the third time? I beg you, if you think the solution is to plead the third time. You see, we can also call delegates to make their name known to get out of this. It's not my goal to block it. I don't aim to be against any nation. I'm asking you just to let us act on the laws, don't run a pre-election campaign. We all have pre-election stands. It's not about ethnic cleansing. It's not about covering anyone. I don't have any written information. We had the conclusion of the Assembly and the obligation of our home. So, I'm asking you, if you'd like to make a name known to bridge the problem. Let's call it a day to get rid of the dilemmas.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2948	Replica, Mr. Chairman, use the position of the chairman and the microphone for which you are sitting.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2949	Well, I can't leave a pay phone to get out.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2950	To discuss the way you think. We are asking to accept the first round of voting which was completely legal and legitimate and according to the Rules of Procedure, without, absolutely no doubt in its legitimacy.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2951	Thank you. The word has Mr. Jusufović. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2952	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I feel the need since I am from the Brcko District to state my position. I realize this is a month of pre-election campaign, and I'm not going to say anything about whether there's a basis or not, but I want to, and I feel the need at the end of it, and it's fair because here I'm the only one with that space so I can say something. I will not vote to include this issue for one principled reason, not getting into the background because all authorities in Brcko District have their own position on this matter and have their own decisions and the Government and the Assembly and OHR, that is, the supervisor, even in certain situations and when there was some possibility that the Brcko District Assembly, or the Government has entered into some talks, has made its final decision and I, absolutely, stand behind that position, because otherwise it would mean that we are trying to tear down the Brcko District institutions here. I'm not taking part in that. The attitude is very clear and details could be discussed about whether they are at risk, are not, etc. It's a long story. Suppose it happens, I'm just asking what's going to happen. Here's to having most of it here on the agenda. Do you have anything relevant to discuss? That's what I'd like to hear from you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2953	I thank Mr. Jusufović. Mr Spahić answered the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2954	First of all, Mr. Chairman, it would be very good for the other colleagues of the College to be with you for your work to help you, not because you are not doing well, but because I would say the rule normally that the House is chaired in a single system that allows, possibly, two members, or all three members to agree on certain things, etc. It's the business structure of the House of Peoples. That's the first thing. The other thing, which is now a question that is delicate, I'd like to suggest one solution to get out of this to concentrate on the agenda that we have. That solution is like this. First, from Mr. Divković's statement and the gentlemen who participated in the debate, it is obvious that there are two questions. First, a business formal, indeed the first round of voting was very correct and I was convinced that we would get information about these things that we would get, it was a request for information. Also, after this point of the agenda was passed defacto and dejour, you asked a question and you said there was no information let's make a statement again. You have found a reason to seek reenactment, which is also formally fine. However, in order to get out of this it is quite correct and legitimate interest to protect 27 citizens, regardless of where the nationalities are, in this case they are mostly members of the Croatian people, I think it is quite legitimate and correct to formulate the point of the agenda, not that we are now individually calling ourselves here whether we are in favour and outwitting that we have a third round of voting to ask for information that you as the chairman of the home people based on the initiative of the Croatian People's Club, which is also signed by your colleague Mr. Šimić. I only found paper among hundreds of papers that this initiative formally came from a member of the Kolegijum, from a member of the Kolegijum sitting with you came an initiative to keep it on the agenda, a mandatory agenda point. From the chairman of the Croatian People's Club officially -- a proposal has been formally submitted since Mr. Šimić is missing. Indeed, for the House of Peoples respecting the Rules of Procedure, for respecting the will above all the Croatian People's Club and then for harmonising our position as political, legislative idt. It is necessary to respect the authentic interest a member of the Kolegijum 11 Mr. Šimić and Mr. Divković is looking for on behalf of the Croatian People's Club in all variations. It is not necessary to push now the Croatian Club then to ask that it is a matter of national interest to block things further to complicate etc. I think it's legitimate to get information, including what Mr. Jusufović said. Come on, I want to see now as a delegate, I want to see all the information relevant to this case on the official organs of Brcko and Others, we have the Ministry of BiH in charge of these issues and it is about refugees and displaced persons, etc., there is Mr Zubak, let this thing be at the next session of the House of Peoples, let it be the last item of the agenda, but let it be provided during the day, and probably this session will take place tomorrow to get simple information. That's not impossible. Let Brcko also mediate information, let the ministry have its information and that point of the agenda have the logic to be because there is no reason for the House of Peoples, which is composed of three clubs of Hrvat, Srbin and Bošnjak to put together one club to fight in order to get one information about one problem. It's absolutely unacceptable. So the way out of this is not the third round of voting. It is not just any situation, but the acceptance of this advance by Mr. Šimić and Mr. Divković, with one of my clarifications, let us get that information. Let's get the information during the day. It can be obtained without any problems. Here's information full of that envelope you don't know what came from where and what. I just now saw that Mr. Šimić, who was absent, was looking for this, and I have to say, for collegiate reasons, that I fully demand that he get out of this without a nickname and bring us all into a position that isn't very pleasant. Especially since Mr Šimić and Mr Tokić are not sitting next to you and you have an explicit request from the Croatian People's Club. There's no reason we can't get any information, and I don't know that you're in the mood to get pure information. That was your distraction, let's get out of this situation. Don't break for half an hour, break an hour. We can make that out of whatever you want. We have a big agenda. I suggest we accept the request of the Hrvat Delegation Club to make this a part of the agenda and provide us with information during the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2955	I'm begging you. It is known what is a binding item of the agenda, it is known that we must work collegiately, but this is not a co-worker's club, but a Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2956	But there's no one around you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2957	Where it says in the Rules of Procedure it has to be around me. Well, how do you like it? Mr Spahić, you want the President of Parliament, not the College. When I sit and chair, then you need Tokić and Šimić. Come on, please, stick to the agenda. I can work. Who's on the phone? Mr. Divković. I'll Spahić slowly.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2958	I just want to explain a few things, because we're starting to impute things that don't stand at all. We, gentlemen, have proposed a item of the land expropriation agenda. So, the classic information that we suggested we didn't have any 12 prejudges on what was going to stand there and we expected, we sent it to 22 last month. We expected the competent authorities to collect information on all relevant authorities and from Brcko District, etc. and present her here. Because of the atmosphere that was created in public, our goal was to overcome the atmosphere in a peaceful way today. If we were in the first vote that was completely legal and legitimate that our proposal had not been voted, we would have completely legitimately accepted that decision. So there wouldn't be any of this controversy that happened. So there's nothing to worry about, Mr. Jusufović, because we didn't have any intention. It was not a part of the agenda that proposed the debate, it was a request for information, it was one thing and the other thing, and that information didn't have to be on the agenda that it didn't go through at the first vote, and that's the whole problem. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2959	Who's next to the word? Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2960	First of all, it would be logical if we had something to do with daily eddo such as information that we had information. I expect it to be perfectly normal if we discuss the information that we have. If I don't have information, I don't see how to put it on the agenda. How am I supposed to discuss information I don't have? So for this reason I neither accepted nor accepted. I fully understand the motives of the Croatian delegates' club, after all, I have asked here several times the question of taking away the Serbian country in Glamoc which I never got the answer to, and no one has really taken it or should have given an adequate answer to that question. Niko one defends a gentleman from the Croatian people to ask the same question here so they can get information the way I got it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2961	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Mr. Sušac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2962	What I was going to say was mostly a colleague of Divković's said that information was wanted here and we're not going to tear down the Brcko District. It is perfectly natural that the representatives here of the Croatian people are looking for this information because the Brcko District is under the authority of BiH institutions, unlike maybe Glamoč where the Federation or County may be, but I don't mind that we're looking here as well. Therefore, I think that, without any tension, it should have accepted that information if it were not to be the last item of the agenda if there was no information until that time, then it would simply be the first item of the agenda at the next session, or the session of this session, and then the second session would continue. We need to be aware however true and not be, that this is a particular tool, and especially when I'm at the same session I'm being Mr. Genjac, I'm really sorry, the item of the agenda is accepted, I don't know maybe in the envelope there's information and I don't accept the item of the agenda and the other one isn't saying anything, but people can be some message and I think it would be good to stick to the strict rules of procedure when the session takes place and so I suggest that the first vote of 7 - 2 - 4 be respected to be placed on the agenda and when it comes to the last one, if there is no information and if no one from the Council of Ministers can give that information or anyone else, but who is responsible for doing it at the next session. Thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2963	I have to give, so I don't put up with the criticism of the word to myself. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, my goal is to get out of this situation to begin today's session to work, of course, which is the country's interest. I don't think this is irrelevant matter. I'm not in favor of politicizing anything, so I think it would be good, now, of course, I'm saying which way I think it's possible to get out of this. It is not a problem to ask for information, it is not a problem to support the Croatian People's Club to ask the authorities for information, to conclude it rather than to be a formalized point of information and to open a storm today of political debates, and to create even more problems there rather than to settle the matter. So maybe it's an unfortunate formulation, a debate about information that doesn't exist. I am ready to support the Croatian People's Club to define the conclusion. Here you define him from which competent institutions you should look for information on what is happening in order for Parliament to take a stand. I beg you, therefore, it is not my aim to politicise, but to solve the problem. The way the agenda is defined is to open a political debate without results. So please, that's why I think there's a way out of this situation. If the Croatian People's Club is ready, here is the definition of the conclusion, I will support the conclusion that information will be sought from the competent institutions of the Brcko District, the BiH institution will be the basis for us to take a stand. If you think that's the solution, I'm prepared to support that conclusion, but, please, how are we going to put an end to the agenda that we inform each other and we want to make a state decision. In that sense, I see a way out of this situation. I beg you, I am ready, let the House reach its conclusion that it obliges the competent institutions to inform us not to enter into the debates we will remain in debt and on the agenda is a dozen laws that are of interest to BiH. I think what you've raised is an important issue, and that's why it's my view that we're discussing maturely from the state level, not that we're sending out different political decisions that no one will benefit from, believe me. Thank you, lyapa.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2964	It is certainly our goal to get out of this situation without any doubt and to keep Parliament working. In the rest of the Club of Croats here is all this mandate that we have had was very constructive and always, I would say, work to pass laws and justify the task of this parliament in BiH and what people expect of it. And this time I'm proposing a 15-minute break because, let's say, we've cleared up our positions and we're trying to find a solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2965	Thank you very much. A 15-minute break at the request of the Croatian People's Club. I'd like to continue our work, and I'd like to ask if it's possible that we don't take long breaks to finish this session today. [[PAUZA]] It's in the interest of all of us that the session doesn't last two days. He asked for the president of the club in the order of the Croatian people to take a break. Please explain.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2966	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, in order to try to overcome this situation, because it is certainly our goal to work today on the agenda that we are presented there to get as much work done as possible. We are proposing and asking for the House of Peoples to conclude before declaring the final agenda that from the Council of Ministers of BiH and the 14 bodies of the Brcko District until the next session of the House of Peoples information on land expropriation at the Arizon market by the authority of the Brcko District and that this information be considered at the next session of the House of Peoples. We believe that this is an extremely correct proposal, which in no way raises the question of this information or the work on the agenda that we will adopt after this conclusion has been reached.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2967	I thank Mr. Divković. You heard the conclusion8 of the club proposed by the Croatian People's delegates. Who's in favor of this conclusion? - 11 Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. Thank you. See how there's a solution for everything. Unanimity. We're moving on to the adopted agenda. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. Answers to Legislative questions and delegate questions, Dama and gentlemen, I have one suggestion. Since we have a large agenda to cut this item of the agenda off today for reasons that so far there have been no quality answers to the asked delegates' questions. They were mostly used to distract us. So, today, there are simply no delegates' questions in order to carry out this session more fully. Do you agree? Thank you. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. Ad.2. A record from the 22nd and 23rd sessions of the House of Peoples. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Who's to adopt the minutes of the 22rd and 23rd sessions? - 11 for it. No Niko abstentioned and no one against. So unanimous. Thank you very much. Ad.3. The Commission's report from the Nationals' College on the effort to reach agreement on a resolution on the original financing of BiH institutions and international commitments – proposed by delegate Sejfudin Tokić, you received a report from the College. I hope you've read it. Now we have to complete the voting procedure. Who is it to be, I am notifying that the Commission has not reached agreement. Who's against the Federation of BiH? So, a statement by entities. - There's no one. Who's against the RS? - Four against. I find this resolution has not been passed. 15 We move to the fourth item of the agenda. Ad.4. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Central Bank Act – Second Reading – Proposer of the BiH Presidency So it is the law in the second reading. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? You've received a report from the committees responsible. There's no one answering for a word. I'm closing the debate and we're moving on to a statement on the amendments. There are no amendments. So we're going to vote. Who is it to pass the law in the second reading, the law on amendments and additions to the Central Bank Act? – So we unanimously adopted amendments to the Law on the Central Bank of BiH. Ad.5. Law amending the Law on Industrial Property of BiH, second reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers I am opening the debate. I would like to inform you that there are no amendments to this law. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who's to pass this law? - 13 for no one restrained and no one against. So, unanimously passed this law. Thank you. Ad.6. The Law on Features, second reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers I open the debate. There are amendments to Momčilo Novaković and Ilija Šimić. Is there a need for the proposed amendment to explain its amendments? The word is Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2968	My fellow delegates, I have no intention of explaining the amendments in detail except for Amendment III, which I would particularly like to pay attention to. It is, in fact, an amendment which, in practice, allows an initiative for the award of medals to be launched by the entity associations of citizens. In fact, the law here provides only that the initiative can be launched by citizens' associations at BiH level, as there is also an entity association of citizens. I don't see any reason why they can't start an initiative to give someone a medal. So, as far as the other amendments are concerned, I think it's all clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2969	I thank Mr. Novaković. Word has Ibrahim Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2970	Mr. Chairman, just to determine that all associations in BiH are citizens, regardless of whether they are in Prnjavor, Sarajevo or in Mostar are associations of BiH citizens. There are no, there is a law on social associations, but these are associations of BiH citizens. By adopting 16 laws concerning the association of BiH citizens, three people, 30 thousand, three and a half million are citizens' associations, so that this amendment does not change anything in character, does not contribute to the development of citizens' initiatives. I think it's, after all, clear as day. So, citizens' associations in BiH have first to propose. Nowhere does it say to them what are... for beekeepers, for birders, for organization, for human rights, depends if they fight for honey, then for honey, if they fight for human rights then for human rights. But those associations of BiH citizens. When you get state-level law, such as about the Association of Citizens and Foundations, then they are associations of BiH citizens. Then the municipal association would, for example, The fart could say that it was kind of discriminated against. No association is discriminated against and anyone can plead because the association is a BiH citizen. Any man can give the initiative. In this regard, it is important to pass laws at BiH level that act effectively and help us to adopt a law on excellence, so I see no reason for this kind of intervention and I consider it all the associations of BiH citizens. I don't understand the objection or the amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2971	I thank Mr Spahić. rapsrva are complete. I only asked if the amendment promoters had the need to explain them. We move on to, since there is no other proposal for Mr Šimić's amendment, we are moving on to a statement on the amendments. The amendment and delegate Ilija Šimić in article I "signs" is changed in the words "social and public" and the words "a contribution" are added in front of the words "special", of course with the explanation you have read. Who's to adopt this amendment? - 13 So we unanimously adopted this amendment and became part of the law. Amendment II of the delegation Momčilo Novaković, Member of the 5th indent of the 2nd indent of the 1st, the words "and in order to cultivate patriotic feelings and traditions" are deleted with reason. Who's to adopt this amendment? - Five for who's against it? - 3 Who Is Restraint? - 5 Is this interpretation that this amendment has been adopted. We're going to an entity vote now. Who's in favor of the Federation? No one for There is no need to move to a vote from the RS entity this amendment has not been adopted. Amendment II of the delegation of the Momčilo Novaković. Article 10(1) of the first indent shall be deleted from the beginning of the sentence "form of distinction and its miniature as in the rest of the text remains unchanged, with an explanation. Who's to adopt this amendment? - 5 Who's against it? - 1 Who Is Restraint? - 7 We're going after the entities. Who's for the Federation of BiH? - Nobody. This amendment has not been adopted. 17 Amendment III of the delegate Momčilo Novaković. Article 12, second indent behind the word "citizens' association" is added from the word "intestinal" and from the explanation. Who's in favor of this amendment? - 5 Who's against it? - 4 Who Is Restraint? - 4 Who's from the Federation for? - Niko for it. So this amendment hasn't been adopted either. Amendment II of the delegate, Ilija Šimić, in the position of Article 12, "The Presidency" should be replaced by the words "members of the Presidency" with a reason. Who's in favor of this amendment? - 11 Who's against it? uzdržati? - 2 We find that this amendment has been accepted. There's no need for us to vote entityally since the vast majority voted yes. Amendment III of the delegate, Ilija Šimić, in Articles 13 and 20, should be replaced by the word "body" with the reason. Who's in? Unanimity. All for it. So this amendment has become an integral part of the text. Amendment IV of the delegate Ilija Šimić In Article 15, the words "being" are deleted, with reason. Who's in? You have your reasons, all of you. Who's up the charts again? - Eight for it. Who's against it? Who's being held back? - 4 Who's from the Federation for? - 4 Who's from RS for? 4 Do We Have Most? We do. This amendment has passed as well. Amendment IV of the delegate Momčilo Novaković Article 18. The second indent behind the word "convicted" is added to the unconditional, with an explanation. Who's in? I think this is a good amendment. Who knows how we'll be tried after these terms. - Ten for it. Who's against it? - There isn't. Who's being held back? 2 I conclude that this amendment has become an integral part of the text of the law. That's why we voted for the amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2972	Look, we've done something... in the law of some kind of sanctions that doesn't exist in any criminal law of any entity or state. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2973	We're done voting. We thank Mr. Džaferović. Let's move on. Amendment To the delegate Momčilo Novaković, Article 19 and 20 are deleted. Who's to delete these members? - 3 Who's against it? - 6 Who's abstentioned? - 3 I find this amendment has not passed. Amendment VI of the delegate Momčilo Novaković Article 24 shall be deleted with reasons. Who's in? - 3 Who's against it? - 7 Who's abstentioned? - 2 I find that this amendment has not received the necessary majority. Amendment VII of the delegate Momčilo Novaković, Article 25 and 26 are deleted, with reasons. Who's in? - 2 Who's against it? - 8 2 for – 8 against. Who's edgy? - 3 I find that this amendment has not received a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, part of the amendment has been accepted and part has not been accepted. He declared himself on the whole of the law in the second reading along with the amendments accepted. Who is for this law on BiH distinctions? - 12 for it. Who's against it? - 1 Who Is Restraint? I find that this law has received most of it and has been adopted in a second reading. Moving to the 7th point of the agenda. Ad.7. The Law on Gender Equality and Gender Equality in BiH, second reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers I am opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr Ibrahim Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2974	Mr. Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, I would just like to congratulate the men's assembly of the House of Peoples of BiH, which I hope will make a positive statement in the second reading of the law on gender equality and express dissatisfaction and hope, on the other hand, that the future relations of political forces, respecting this law, will introduce this House at least two-thirds of the ladies without any courtship. This was, indeed, our greatest shame, with all the compliments to ourselves, that we were doing well, that we were men ourselves, and that we were adopting a law in principle that is indeed unusual. It would've been wonderful if we'd gotten out during the term of office. I hope the winners, no matter who they are, will ensure that there are ladies here with the gentlemen. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2975	I thank Mr Spahić for his flabby style and exposure. We'd better stick to the agenda and bloat. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, regarding this law, we have received more amendments. Now we're going to make a statement about the amendments. Amendment I of the delegate Sejfudin Tokić Article 15 paragraph 3 is amended and a new position 4 is added. The percentage of gender participation in authorities at all levels, including judicial and executive powers, as well as all other public services, commissions and committees, including participation in bodies representing the country to an international level in the first place, will reflect the percentage of gender representation according to the last census. The percentage of gender participation in the bodies referred to in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article cannot be less than 40%, with reasons. Who's in favor of this amendment? Niko. Who's against it? - 5 Who's abstentioned? - 8 I find this amendment not accepted. Amendment I delegate Momčilo Novaković Article 19th position 1 behind the word "competent" is added to the words "entity". Who is for this amendment to Momčilo Novaković? - 5 Who's against it? - 8 Who Is Restraint? - 1 I find this amendment not accepted. Amendment II of the delegation Momčilo Novaković Article 21st position 1rd indent behind the word "determination" is added the words "entity". Who's in favor of this amendment? - 5 Who's against it? - 9 Who's abstentioned? No abstentions. I realize this amendment hasn't passed either. Amendment III of the delegate Momčilo Novaković Article 22, item 1 of the first indent behind the word "competent" is added to the words "entity" and the words are deleted at all levels, with an explanation. Who's in favor of this amendment? - 5 Who's against it? - 8 Who Is Restraint? No abstentions. This amendment didn't get most of it either. Amendment IV of the delegate Momčilo Novaković, Article 23 and 24 are deleted. Who's in? - Who's against it? Who's being held back? I realize this amendment hasn't been adopted either. 20 Amendment Novaković Member of the 25th position of the 1st indent is deleted as well. Article 25 item 1 of the 2nd indent behind the word "ministration" is added "for human rights and refugees of the entity government". Article 25, paragraph 4, behind the words, the ministry is added the words "and to entity governments". Who's in favor of this amendment? Who's against it? Who's being held back? There's no glimmers. I find that this amendment has not been accepted either. Amendment VI of the delegate Momčilo Novaković Article 26. bet 3. are deleted. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? - 3 So this amendment is not accepted either. Amendment VII of the delegate Momčilo Novaković Article 28 is deleted. Who's in? - 4 Who's against it? - 8 Who Is Restraint? – 1 So, and this amendment is not accepted. Amendment VIII of the delegate Momčilo Novaković Article 29th position of the 4th indent, the first words are deleted at the beginning of the sentence "until the adoption of the law on BiH offences". Article 29(5) is amended as follows: The BiH institution in terms of "intestinality". Who's in favor of this amendment? - 5 Who's against it? – 8 So this amendment has not passed either. Amendment IX delegate Momčilo Novaković Article 31. item 1. is deleted with reason. Who's in favor of this amendment? - 2 Who's against it? - 8 Who Is Restraint? – 3 So this amendment did not get the required majority either. Amendment II of the delegate Sejfudin Tokić is added to the new article 32, which reads. The provisions of Article 28 cease to apply after the crimes mentioned in this article become an integral part of the BiH Criminal Law? Who's in favor of this amendment? Who's in? - Two for it. Who's against it? - 5 Who's abstentioned? - 4 I find that this amendment is not accepted either. Ladies and gentlemen, no amendment to this law has been passed. 21 We declare the whole of the law. Who is for the adoption of the law on gender equality in BiH? - 12 Who's against it? - 1 Who Is Exasperated? There isn't. Thank you for the vote. The law has been passed. Ad.8. Criminal law of BiH, first reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers I open the debate. Mr Ibrahim Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2976	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Council, the Constitutional and Legal Committee has examined this law and supported it in the text proposed by the Council of Ministers. That report, I hope, you've received. There's something else I want to say. This is the most important document in the BiH Parliament, therefore, the most important law that we adopt, bearing in mind that it is criminal and legal protection from the area for which the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are responsible and that it is the obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with international law. So I support all principles and principles now as a delegate. I would like to say that as far as I am concerned as the delegate and president of the commission, but in this case only as a delegate, that this law in the text as proposed by the Council of Ministers could be adopted in the first and second reading, given the real need to come to this law in the best possible way and that in the procedure that will follow Bosnia and Herzegovina in this way, by adopting BiH's criminal law, they are classified in the order of countries that can in an authentic way protect their interests and respect international norms. What I particularly want to say is that the 48th Geneva Conventions on the Prevention of Genocide 94th, four conventions also adopted in Geneva, the famous Geneva Convention, not to list names and '99. concerning the prevention of corruption, they constitute the fundamental acts which oblige the state of BiH as a member of the UN and a country that has the interests of being euro-integrated and organised in a modern manner to adopt this law at the best possible standards that the Council of Ministers has passed along with OHR and domestic and foreign experts. Events such as reviewing and adopting criminal law and first reading of the review, but I hope one procedure that will normally be able to ensure the end of this job inspires me once again. If we could not accept my proposal today to adopt this law in the second reading in order to make sure that this assembly holds a new session and to ensure that this law is adopted in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly until the end of the elections. I recommend, Mr. Chairman, that amendments be carefully considered, which have been renewed how much I have seen for today's session, but on my part, I would like to express my interest as a delegate that, too, I recommend that my colleagues consider the importance of considering in the first reading of this law and that today it be a really central point if possible of our work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2977	I thank Mr Spahić. Who's still answering for the word? Gospdin Džaferović. Here you go. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2978	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important law for the state of BiH, it is not the two of us here and I expected to hear a few words from the Council of Ministers, it is such a order in these important laws, but, behold, it is important that Mr. Spahić was the first to report for this word and even before me who, in practice, for decades and a half, applied such and similar laws. I would like to say that I support BiH's criminal law in the text in which we received it from the Council of Ministers. He has passed the Constitutional and Legal Commission procedure and I think this is the beginning of the reform to rule out the criminal first in the BiH state. We currently have two entity criminal laws in BiH. One crime law of the Brcko District and we have just as many criminal procedural laws. Today, we need to pass a law that in a unique way in the BiH state will settle the issues concerning a general part of the criminal law, a general part of the criminal matter relating to the issue of criminal offences, criminal liability, criminal sanctions, penalties and other measures and, of course, other criminal law institutes that are listed in the general part of criminal law. And that part of the criminal law will apply to all perpetrators of crimes in the BiH state, regardless of which court proceedings are being conducted. I'm sorry that I told you later that this is just the first phase of criminal law reform in BiH for me. It is not unique for the whole BiH state, because, indeed, there is no reasonable reason to oppose this kind of thinking, therefore, for the whole BiH state, it is desirable that a special part of the criminal law be arranged in a unique way. There is no difference in the perception of elements of beings or the need for differences in crimes against life and the body, because injury is an injury, murder is murder, crime, public traffic security, crimes of dignity of personality and morals, etc. Unfortunately, these groups of crimes will remain governed by entity criminal laws and most of them in 99% of the entity law cases there is no difference. This law regulates, to the heart, certain groups of crimes that will be unique for the entire area of the state, such as co-criminal crimes against freedom and the rights of citizens, crimes against BiH's integrity, crimes against humanity and international law, crimes against terrorism, crimes against economy, the single market and crimes in customs areas, crimes against corruption, official and other liability duties, crimes against justice, crimes against the security of traffic and crimes related to the area of copyright violations. These are the heads of a special section of criminal law covered by this criminal law. Unfortunately, I say again, there are no groups of crimes present in everyday life, and it would be very desirable that at the level of the BiH civil society and this problem be governed by one law in the same way, because this is closely related to the freedoms and first citizens of this country, as co-criminal acts against honor and respect, against life and body, against dignity of personality and morals, public traffic security, public order and legal traffic, official and other responsible duties, etc. I don't want to pick up these groups of crimes. In addition, I expect BiH will receive a law on criminal proceedings soon. So, criminal procedural law, and I hope it will be a law that will in a unique way regulate the procedure in criminal matters in front of all BiH courts. That is why this is a good step for me and only one step in the reform of criminal law in BiH, and therefore I will support this law and I suggest that today, after we adopt the law in our first reading, Mr. Chairman, we move immediately to another reading. So much and thank you. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2979	I thank Mr. Džferović. Who's next to the word? There are no reports. I'll take your word for it. Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed delegates, distinguished guests, members of the Council of Ministers, I think the debate and adoption of BiH's criminal law completes a set of legal projects in the area of judicial reform is good for BiH. I think that, after the adoption of the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH and the constitution of the BiH Court with different departments, BiH's criminal law represents one of the important legal projects, as far as I am aware, is that a group of experts from both entities has been working on this law with the help of OHR and international institutions and I think it is good today to adopt this law in the first reading. I, of course, have defined, with the help of experts involved in this area two amendments that are not of a political nature, which are exclusively of professional nature and if the right is not an area that I deal with. This would be good if these two amendments were adopted in order for the law to be as passable as possible so that it would not often reach for amendments and additions and, if this House is willing to adopt these amendments, therefore, I am not being blackmailed. It's not an amendment to blackmail the House. I'd be ready to join the first and second readings. This is because the amendments are not political content and I am sorry that today no one from the Council who worked in coordination with OHR with the Office of the High Representative on this law. It would be good to make a statement about these amendments, which I warn are not political characters. Of course, if there are moods to adopt the amendments, it will have a good effect on my commitment to whether or not I will be able to join the first and second readings, but in any case, I think it's a good thing that this legislative project came on the agenda and that it creates a mood to adopt it. Is anyone else answering for word? He's not answering. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to a statement in the first reading. Who is in favour of adopting BiH's criminal law first read? Unanimity 13 no one against, no one abstention. There were suggestions to combine the first and second readings. Because it's not an amendment. Who's to join the first and second readings? - 9 Who's against it? - 4 We're going to an entity statement. Who's in favor of the Federation? Who's from RS? No Niko's in. So we don't have the necessary majority to combine first and second reading. 24 Transmits 9th point of the agenda. Ad.9. The Law on movement and residence of foreigners and asylum, first reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers You have received the law and report of the competent commission. This is the first reading of the law by Article 90. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a dispersion. Who's calling for an argument. Here you go, Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2980	I propose, Mr. Chairman, that this bill be accepted, with one note. It is very good that it is finally, I hope by the end of September that BiH will receive 100% protected borders and I would like to give recognition to the ministry and the relevant BiH GDS institutions, as well as those who have proposed this law, to follow one logic of normalisation of relations in BiH. So, I support it, as far as I'm concerned, I would vote it in a second reading. I'm renewing the proposal if I'm willing.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2981	First of all, let me say that I do not dispute the need to pass this law and make it clear that there is a need for certain changes to be made in the law itself, but here I want to warn a few facts. In fact, the current law on immigration and asylum in BiH, the first-degree solution is being reached at the level of interior ministries, i.e. canton, county and police in Brcko District and the jurisdiction of appeal is the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. The new text of the law provides for the competence of the institutions, i.e. the ministry, is such that, in practice, the interior ministries do not have in this area of competence. That's not as much a problem as it is for me that the establishment of an immigration department has not established the territorial jurisdiction of the headquarters, etc. We know there's a service. This law provides for a service for foreigners and asylum at the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, which has a department as organisational units located outside the headquarters of the service and whose jurisdiction is number, seats, etc. will be determined later. With this solution and such a solution, there is the possibility of intruding into the territorial organisation of entities, here above all I think of the RS. It is also provided here for Articles 91 and 100 to establish a central database with the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and that entity bodies and the State Border Service shall have access only where necessary to carry out tasks. I believe that this is not a good solution and that in this sense these authorities should have a permanent opportunity to have access to these records. Of course they'll have access when they need it. Thank God they won't ask for access when they don't need it. So, this way and with this change in law, I think we would create conditions for this law to be accepted in procedure. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2982	I thank Mr. Novaković. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm sorry he doesn't have a colleague I'll take your word for. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the law on the movement and residence of foreigners and the asylum of BiH is one of the essential legal projects. I worked at the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees with an effort to make this legal text see the light of day. Of course, this is the law in first reading. As far as I am aware of the department of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees with representatives of the international community and the OHR, after handing over the deadline this law has defined certain amendments, but since it is a law in the first reading, it would be good that, therefore, simply these amendments enter the next phase and make sure that we get as much better text as possible of the proposal of this law, of course, by respecting all this that fellow Momčilo Novaković said and he himself defined one amendment to Article 2 of Article 100 to change. So, it's an amendment that improves the legal text, and that's why I think today it's worth supporting this law by just reading, and for those who are working in the follow-up procedure to forward these amendments that concern and the principles on which this law is based, but I don't think it would be a good idea to stop this law on principle and to open up a chance for the legislator to work together with the commissions to improve until the next, so, second reading. In that sense, I think it is worth supporting this law in the first reading along with the suggestions that colleagues have made in this debate. Thank you very much. I will forward these amendments to the unsigned committees. They're... they're... they're... they're... they're... they're... they're... they're... they're... they're... So, they were done with the emphasis of those services that follow the work and follow the situation in BiH towards the movements of foreigners and asylum in BiH. Thank you very much. Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Here you go. We have an interpretation of a member of the Council of Ministers, Mr Vladičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2983	I just wanted to say that in Article 91, I don't know which text this respected delegate Novaković has, but exactly how the authorities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Internal Affairs and DGS have access to the records and data of the position of the 1st member when it is in the function of carrying out the tasks they have under this law. This is in you some earlier text that was changed later, so...
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2984	Thank you. That's even better, because it's on the back of what delegate Novaković was saying. We're moving on to a plea. Who is it to adopt the law on the movement and residence of foreigners and asylum in BiH in the first reading? - 12 for it. No Niko's against and no one's restrained I thank you. I find the law was passed in the first reading. 26 We move to 10 points of the agenda. Ad. Ten. The Law on the City of Sarajevo, the capital, first reading – legislator Ibrahim Spahić, who is reporting for a riot. Proposer Mr Spahić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2985	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the delegates, members of the Council of Ministers and Guests, I would like to make it on the basis of Article 1(5). The BiH Constitution, which says that the BiH capital is the one I propose to you, recommend considering and adopting the first reading of the law on the city of Sarajevo's capital of BiH. With this law, on the basis of general provisions, we wanted the citizens of Sarajevo and I as a resident of this ugly and BiH citizens to finally pass a law on the city of Sarajevo to the capital of BiH that will regulate relations by confirming the city of Sarajevo as a single territorial social political community, a unit of local administration and self-government as a city that will in urban, political, cultural, social and all other dimensions confirm its place in the country of BiH as one of the European metropolis. The second member defined positions of protection of human rights and freedoms, third vital national interests, fourth diplomatic and consular representations, the fifth jurisdiction of the city that today was broken between the municipalities of the city of Cyrajevo, which consist of four municipalities and Canton of Sarajevo. It is my very clear position and position that the 17 responsibilities I have recommended in consultation with different associations of citizens of communities and structures interested in this law are the original jurisdiction of the city of Sarajevo. In this sense, the authorities of the city of Sarajevo would be the city council and mayor, and they would act in accordance with the Constitution, the Law and the Statute of the city of Sarajevo. The city council would have functions that the city's parliament has in all modern European cities and the mayor would be originally and directly elected by the citizens of Sarajevo and with the powers laid down here in this bill of law. The property and financing of the city are already subject to many speculations today, as the city of Sarajevo is certainly one of the most significant property holders in the city of Sarajevo and BiH and, of course, its financing would not in this respect be in any doubt, given the different principles that we have raised here as incomes from the city of Sarajevo from sales, services and to immovable property and, of course, other incomes established by law. In the end, the city of Sarajevo as the capital of BiH has economic, cultural, sports, political and any other forms of co-operation with the metropolis of Europe and the world, and it is uncommon for the BiH capital to be represented in the world with full prestige and for the sake of the new image of BiH and its affirmation as a country of origin working on Euro-Atlantic integration, where a position and relationship to the country's capital is expected. I would like to say that the city's acts are, normally, acts that will be in accordance with our constitution and law, as well as according to the laid down procedure, passed in a legitimate manner through the elections that would be organised in this respect, confirmed by the ugly council that would be formulated. 27 There are both transitional and final provisions that are quite normal to define positions everywhere that, if we adopt this law, we give a period of two months to transfer certain areas resulting from the character of this law. Finally, I would like to say, since it is my interest to keep your attention to the need to adopt this law in the first reading that the proposal for this law is very explicitly derived from the Constitution of BiH, out of the need to strengthen the role and position of the capital of BiH and, of course, on the foundations and principles that allow the capital of BiH to be in truth the country's capital for all residents, all the citizens of this country for the benefit of the country itself and all its inhabitants, all the citizens of BiH. So, in these ten provisions that I have in mind, I am obliged to say that the financial resources necessary for the implementation of such a law are established and should be determined by the role of the city of Sarajevo, the capital of BiH, which it has objectively and in the situation it is today in BiH, it is explained to various interests of political and the city is Mr... as an urban community political culture, university etc. in an unfair way because there is not enough political will to open a debate on the adoption of such a law. No Niko else but the BiH Parliament can pass the law to the BiH capital. So explicitly this law relies on the BiH Constitution. Secondly, this is not only the interest of NGOs, civil society, associations, associations, but it is the interest of the BiH state to regulate its administrative political centre in the best possible way by law the outcome of its economic, political, cultural interests as the common interests of BiH citizens and the whole country. And in the end, if the House of Nations sets out not to open a procedure that would allow for an accelerated procedure of passing such a law, I don't insist on it at all. I have also proposed a solution to this bill, which implies opening a public debate if the House of Nations wishes it or another... that it is conducted within the framework of the system institutions in the co-operation of all interested institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is the last indent, the last in the point of reasoning, the point of Mr. And I would just like to express an authentic interest that is absolutely verifiable in every part of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in every part of the city of Sarajevo when it comes to this law. And my recommendation was to keep this law in the parliamentary procedure and on the condition that we plead it through one conclusion to open a public debate. So I don't insist on even imposing solutions. My only way to open this debate was to propose the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2986	I thank Mr Spahić. Ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate, of course, the insistence of every delegate to define a legal project, but it seems to me that the way in which the law projects try to edit something that's arranged in the way they see it, and it has the right to every delegate and MP is individually not good and you're going to do more damage and good idea, and let alone... He knows well Mr Spahić that the Law on the city of Sarajevo as the capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina has no chance of passing in the first reading and therefore offers a public debate. 28 I think Article 2 in which it is said – the city of Sarajevo is a unique territorial social political community, a unit of local administration and self-government, simply putting an ad act on what is called Sarajevo and what is called Serbia's Sarajevo. That this law, by chance, was offered in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament, made sense, but this is how it is offered in the House of Peoples, so if it does not pass the public debate, I think perhaps one and a useful idea is condemned in advance. I think that this Parliament should not entertain attempts to pass something, or not pass, but by serious purposes that as responsible people we appreciate what the product of the Dayton Agreement is, and unfortunately the product of the ill will of the citizens and the peoples we represent. I don't think I will, of course, try to avoid words that could open the controversy today, except to say that as far as I'm concerned, the principles on which this law has been done have no chance of being supported today, and I don't think even the public debate initiative is going to get my support, because the moment that citizens in federal Sarajevo and Serbian Sarajevo are given more food, when pensions can be easier to live than easier to die, when everyone has bearable conditions for life will also be able to talk about such things. I don't think it's time and I think that legal projects should be understood to be brought into the interest of the citizens of entities and peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that this is not the time for a pre-election campaign and I will therefore avoid the words that would lead to a pre-election campaign. So I declare in advance that I do not continue to qualify, against the principles on which this law is written. Thank you very much. Is the intervention, the polemics, the replica, the false quote. Here you go. Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2987	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the delegates, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the bill's proposal, I am in the best way possible, understanding relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina expressed interests as a delegate if there is no will to find a way to adopt this law in the first reading, recommending second reading, defining one conclusion, we have the right to do so, we will vote on the conclusion that a public debate is being held, about that. I think it's the most tolerated
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2988	It cannot be part of the debate in the first reading conclusions. Stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2989	Second. Of course, don't explain what he can do, what he can't. I know that. The other thing I'm trying to say is that I only find one fact why I answered the word about you. In the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, only Sarajevo as the capital of BiH is known. There is no definition in any document in Bosnia and Herzegovina or in any legal act, in any constitution by which there is a federal Sarajevo or Sarajevo Republika Srpska. There is only the city of Sarajevo currently meeting Bosnia and Herzegovina's parliament as the capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is not an abstraction at all, of course, a matter of understanding reality in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The city of Sarajevo exists. We work and live in it and this Parliament and all state institutions. How the law will regulate relations in the city of Sarajevo. Normal to edit 29
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2990	I'm asking you to blame the quote you said. You had time to argue.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2991	I'm just saying there's that, so I answered. There are no categorisms that you mentioned in the explanation, which is why you are personally against the best measure you have shown according to the initiative that I have given. And now I'm going to tell you because I believe in your best intentions that those categories that you used to explain yourself about why you wouldn't give your vote, simply don't exist as facts in documents, in constitutions, etc. It doesn't exist. There is only one capital named Sarajevo, and we need to sort it out both you and me and all the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2992	I thank Mr Spahić. Mr. Novaković picked up the phone. I ask you to really try today to avoid perhaps politicizing about this law to conduct a productive debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2993	Of course, I have no intention of making politicisation out of this, but I just want to warn you of the fact that the promoter should have taken care of whether the law had a chance to pass or not. Let's say Article 3. The law that says -- the city of Sarajevo is made up of municipalities that represent an urban, political and social unit. In his own mind, perhaps the promoter meant something better than what he wrote. That we don't speak Article 19 or I don't know a series of other formulas here that are pretty vague. It's not a Serbian Sara thing to understand someone or not. There is a Law on the Territorial Organisation of Republika Srpska. It's not a matter of whether anyone wants to understand him, so say well, come on, have that Serbian Sarajevo call him whatever you want. So if someone really wants to propose a serious law then they must honestly believe that law has some chance to pass even the one in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2994	I thank Mr. Novaković. Are there any more debaters? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I suggest we make a plea. Who is it that the Law on the City of Sarajevo, the capital, is accepted in the first reading? Who's against it? Who's for Republika Srpska to pass the law in the first reading? - Niko. I find that the law, no, does not go in the first reading. It's adopted in the first reading. He must have an entity. There's no alignment. We plead. There's no entity because we're making a decision in our first reading. No, no. In the first reading. He's going to get his interpretations straight. 30 We're going to the 11th point of the agenda. Ad. 11. The Act on the Agency for Labour and Employment First Reading, the proposaler of the Council of Ministers. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. There were no amendments, no written remarks. Who is it that the Labour and Employment Agency Act is adopted in the first reading? Who's in? - Ten for who's against it? 1 Are there any abstentions? - 1 I find that this law was adopted in the first reading. We're moving to the 12th point of the agenda. Ad. 12. The law on the use and protection of the name Bosnia and Herzegovina First reading, the proposaler of the Council of Ministers. You've received the law as well as a report from the committee responsible. This is the first reading of the law by Article 90. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who is it? So this is the law in first reading. Who is it to adopt the Law on Use and Protection called Bosnia and Herzegovina in its first reading? - 12 for who's against it? Unanimously unanimous. So no one against, no one abstention. I find that the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been adopted in the first reading. Ad. 13. Law amending the Law on the Transfer of Regulators and Operators of the Electricity System in Bosnia and Herzegovina First Reading, Proposer Ivo Divković. You've received the law, as well as a report from the committee responsible. This is the first reading of the law by Article 90. I'm opening a debate. You also received a report from the competent ministry and Minister Hadžiahmetović, of course. This is Mr. Divković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2995	My esteemed colleagues would only remind me that we passed this law recently and then it was adopted under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Peoples, because the argument was and we all accepted that it was a law which was a prerequisite for obtaining a loan from the international and financial institutions that again had the function of training the food of the transmission network in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that was quite the case I would say one logical, one logical and adoption of the law by Parliament. 31 I am then, you then had my proposal then an amendment which was clearly not considered because it was being considered under Article 100. I used my envoy's right after the law was passed and now that the law is no longer a prerequisite for obtaining credit because it already exists, etc. to propose an amendment to the law which is clearly in the amendment of only one member of that law, that is, to the seat of the Regulatory Agency, where I have proposed that the headquarters of the Regulatory Agency for Electricity be located in Tuzla. In the light of that, I also stated then, I would only like to repeat that it is the first, I think, that, in general, this parliament should be supported by one principle, which is the institutions and bodies that are not necessary to be at the centre of Sarajevo or some others, in order to decentralisation institutions can also be in some other cities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The most natural thing is that when it comes to energy being based in Tuzla, because Tuzla was an absolute energy centre in the former state as well as today. It also produces the most energy in Bosnia and Herzegovina and has excellent staff, with universities, institutes, institutions etc. in that area. And that was the motive for the bill. We should not allow any end in any way, any city in this country that has developed a particular area in some way to be marginalized or to say provincial, if that's what you can say. Now I would just like to refer to what I got here on the table, which is the opinion of Minister Azra Hadžiahmetović in connection with this law. I have to say that I am in office or that if I were a minister, I would never write such an explanation because that, this is no reason. The Minister says we believe that the proposed Law amending the Law on the Transfer of Regulators and Operators of the Electricity System in Bosnia and Herzegovina should not be adopted at a session of the People's House, because they are not the fruit of detailed analysis, nor have participants who were responsible for the care of the production been consulted. Please, gentlemen, we don't need any analysis here, because the law stays as it is, it just changes the seat, and that's a purely technical question, so there's no analysis whatsoever. If the minister needed an analysis, then she could see it in an explanation. And this second part of consulting participants let the minister allow me as an envoy of my right, not to deny my constitutional right and MPial not to consult anyone when I file a bill as well as her right to give her opinion on my bill, but not like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2996	I thank Mr. Divković. Who's next to the word? If no one calls, then I will. Ladies and gentlemen, at the last session, I said that I would support Mr. Divković's proposal for delegates, I think that he is on a general course which is a lot of political talk, and little seems to me that what the central agency does in the joint institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is what can be decentralised to be decentralised and it seems to me that this is the way to approach the amendments and amendments of the law with what, of course, the debates need to create political will before that, in order for these amendments and additions to be adopted. And in that sense, I would like to present my support for the amendment and addition of the Law on the Transfer of Regulators and Operators of the Electricity System in Bosnia and Herzegovina to Mr Divković's delegates. 32 I think that the time has come and that I think it is neither Serbian nor Croatian nor Bosniak question to sit in all areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina, regardless of which in the cities and municipalities in which the entity is so decentralised. It is related, of course, to new employment and new financial injections of the population where these agencies are being created. But of course it can be about dislocation of those central institutions, or agencies that can provide dislocated conditions for Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state. And when I commit myself to such changes and supplement laws, the most important thing to me is whether this agency can successfully work in Bosnia and Herzegovina's interest equally successfully when it is located in Tuzla or Sarajevo or, say, Banja Luka or Mostar. If that is a confirmed answer, then I think it is necessary to create a mood for delegates to actually implement such a kind of decentralisation through changes and addition of legal projects. It was a promise and a previous call to the council of ministers that I was personally in. It was a promise and this is called by the Council of Ministers, and it seems to me that it was all more like political stories, courting the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but here is Mr. Divković making a concrete move, offering an amendment and an addition to a legal project, and so I think it is good that today this proposal by Mr. Divković gets support and I will personally plead to support the amendments and additions of this law. Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate and we're moving on to a plea. Who is it to adopt the Law on Amendments and the Law on the Transfer of the Regulator and Operator of the Electricity System in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading? - Eight for who's against it? - One against who's restrained? - 3 abstentions I suggest, ladies and gentlemen, so this is my proposal to combine first and second reading, because there was no amendment. Who is for this law to be adopted in another reading? Here, who's to join the reading, I agree, I apologize? Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2997	Can I have a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2998	You can't get the word, the final debate on this point. Who's so we can put it together.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u2999	Business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u3000	Here you go. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u3001	Mr. Chairman, we know the Rules of Procedure of this House and I ask you to respect our intellectual abilities.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u3002	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u3003	As far as I'm concerned, they're certainly neither to overestimate nor to underestimate. Some average you should respect. We sit here and follow what you're doing. We've passed 4-5 laws in the first reading, a law that didn't suit you to go to second reading, and you just didn't even mention second reading. Now we've come to one law where it suits you to go to another reading. You did not even suggest that we declare ourselves whether or not we were going to read in another way, but rather ask the locals to declare ourselves in another reading. It's not business, it's not correct, it's a tending session, Mr. Chairman, and you keep going. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u3004	Thank you very much. Not me ladies and gentlemen, you are all witnesses, I have supported the merger and the vote, therefore, and related to the Criminal Law. You sit here like I do, I respect your will whenever you ask Dom to plead first and second reading I will support it. So I suggest we make a statement. So who's first to join the first and second readings? - 7 Who's against it? - 4 against Who is abstention? – 2 So he received support from this proposal. Now we're going to make it clear that in the second one, who's from the Federation to join the first and second reading? Who's in favor of the Federation? - 4 Who's against it? So he got support from the Federation. Who's from Republika Srpska for? - We have an entity majority. Who is it to support Mr. Divković's bill in the second reading? - Eight for who's against it? Who's being held back? I realize we passed this law in another reading. 34 I thank you. We're going to 14 points of the agenda. Ad. 14. The law on executive proceedings before the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina First reading, the proposing Council of Ministers. I'm opening a debate. Whoever answers the word's not answering. I'm closing the debate. Who is it to adopt the Law on Executive Procedure before the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina in our first reading? - 10 Who's against it? Are there any others who can handle it? – I konstatovati that in our first reading, we adopted the Law on Executive Procedure before the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're moving to the 15th point of the agenda. Who's to join the first and second readings? Who's in? - Who's against it? - 4 Who's from Republika Srpska for? - is no one sorry we didn't get the will of delegates to merge first and second reading. We're moving to the 15th point of the agenda. Ad. 15. Proposal for a law on cooperatives First reading. Delegates Nikola Špirić, Ilija Šimić and Sejfudin Tokić. You've received the law as well as a report from the committee responsible. This is the first reading of the law by Article 90. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're going to a plea. Who is it to adopt this bill in the first reading? - 8 Who's against it? - 3 Who's from Republika Srpska for? - There's no one going to the alignment. So he's going to get this proposal in line. We're going to the 16th point of the agenda. Ad. 16. Proposal for a Veterinary Law of BiH First reading. Proposer of the Council of Ministers. You've been given the law with the amendments in place, as well as the report from the committee responsible. I'm opening a debate against this law. Who's answering for a word? I'll be in touch. Ladies and gentlemen of the Proposal for a Law on Veterinary of Bosnia and Herzegovina has long been the subject of different discussions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, various said protests by stakeholders who rightly protested in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So far in Bosnia and Herzegovina, all those who have imported and exported supplies from Bosnia and Herzegovina have cordially poisoned their people and 35 citizens, and therefore I think the time has come for this matter to be settled. I would like to inform you that this law has also been passed at the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and therefore it would be good to adopt it today and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is a very important legislative project, and that is why I am prepared if there are no fundamental objections to, and therefore there are no amendments delivered, I am prepared, although I have therefore defined one amendment, I am ready today to conduct the debate in both the first and second readings and to simply come up with a legal project that is important to Bosnia and Herzegovina and its entities and its citizens. So I will support this law in the first reading, and if the will of the delegates is to vote on the law and in the second reading, they will have my support. Thank you very much. No, you'll vote for the amendment. If you vote against the amendments, I'll have a position in accordance with the law of course. Mr. Ivo Divković picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u3005	Mr. Chairman, we have consulted at the Croatian Club and we have just had a proposal to propose, here we now support this proposal in view of the importance of this law, the situation around it. A very long period of time as this law is in parliamentary procedure and given the fact that it has passed is such a commission phase that we have a first and second reading today, i.e. to plead on the amendments and try to reach the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u3006	I thank Mr. Divković. Who's next to the word? Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u3007	As Mr. Divković said there were some consultations, so we had some consultations about this law. And right now I have to say that we don't first dispute the need to pass a law like this. We do not dispute and we have not disputed the text of the law that was in the parliamentary procedure. However, the amendments to the Constitutional and Legal Commission have changed significantly both the substance and the text of the law. I think that the Constitutional and Legal Commission, or those who voted to accept these amendments, questioned only the adoption of the law that I say was written in a way that was acceptable to the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u3008	I thank Mr. Momčilo Novaković. I beg you to see, there are amendments that have come, there have been a lot of amendments to this law. We must assess today, if we enter another reading of the fate of the law. Better, if we consider that we should leave time to discuss amendments, it is much more useful than to rush to declare that the law does not see the light of day. Here you go. Ibrahim Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u3009	Okay. Since the law comes to the Constitutional and Legal Commission becomes the law of the House, so that the law of the criminal was interpreted incorrectly. It's not the law of the Council of Ministers anymore, it's the law of the House, so I'd like to explain why I called first as president. It was correct, not because I was in a hurry before Mihajlović or any other member of the commission, it was my duty. Secondly, when it comes to the amendment to the bill, the amendments are new. Since we have many amendments, I have found this entire collection, I would first say that the Commission has not changed anything, but has considered legitimately as always the amendment and all those who are not satisfied have proposed and renewed the amendments for today's session, i.e. for second reading when it comes to order. Mr. Špirić suggested we go to another reading today. That's why I asked him if it meant withdrawing the amendments, because if the debate on his and other amendments opened, there are no conditions that are very good because they would immediately enter into a second reading. I'm glad he corrected his own approach after Mr. Novaković. However, in both the first and second cases, I would like to say that I consulted a veterinary club, I am neither a Bosniak club nor a Serb nor a Croat and a club of citizens of different free who are consumers and those who are producers. Everyone agrees in these clubs that are neither Serbian nor Croatian, nor Bosniak, but a club of people who are in a position to commit, import, export and deal with these problems, people who care about our health anyway, despite ourselves. That's the whole problem. We in Parliament must come up with, indeed Špirić is right, the best way to get to this law, to break the farce about it. Is the amendment up, down, is the amendment there, over here. The law proposed by the Council of Ministers, a law that we finally agreed in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was adopted in the House of Representatives, also offers a chance for the House of Nations today to decide to adopt that law. There's no dispute. You know, it's very simple. If we adopt the law, we will, of course, go to the alignment if there is any difference, stuck, comma, or any name. Don't make things more complicated in advance. We'll make a statement about the amendments when there's a second reading. I was prone to other readings because today we could declare our amendments. The second reading implies a statement on amendments. The first reading implies, the principles are fine, the agreement on the health of the population and livestock, cattle satisfied, the population satisfied and delegates in number. But it's not the delegates' problem, it's the problem in your position. You are constantly trapping what is the elemental vital interest of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's what Lijanović says. They were for them, their wings were the most important, then their legs. We should finally deal with the common good. It is generally good to consider this law, not to deal with wings and legs. It's a great honor for Lijanović and their campaign in the fight for Lijanovici. But this is about fighting for Bosnia and Herzegovina, for the citizens, the common ones, I'm sure Jerko will agree. It's about people who want to have protection against infections that want to have healthy food, that manufacturers have an equal chance in competition. And I wouldn't want to make any of this, except for the veterinary clubs and the manufacturers and the consumers and the citizens, the Serb clubs, the Croats and the Bosniaks. And I don't care what the Serbian, Croat 37 and Bosniak clubs have made as a conclusion about the commas, the commas and the veterinary regulations. It's time to think about what's logical and let us adopt, to consider. That's why I'm here for a second reading, for a statement about the Amandans. So if we're not able to make a statement about this, it's going to be the alignment of commissions as for minorities. But don't make everything a problem. So welcome, welcome to the second reading, and I would like to ask Mr. Špirić just so I've volunteered to return to his first proposal that I support. Let's end this as a first reading, open a debate, plead the amendments. Let's find a solution. What now to eskicipate this second reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u3010	I thank Mr Spahić. Who's next to the word? This is like a presidential candidate. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to a plea. No, no one's answering for a hearing. Who is it to adopt the Proposal for a Veterinary Law in the first reading? - 12. Unanimity. Thank you. Who's to move on to another reading? 11 Who is from Republika Srpska to go to another reading? Who's from the Federation to go to another reading? – 7 So we are going to another reading about the Law on Veterinary of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, so you've received amendments to this bill. I ask you, is there any need for the amendment's proposings to explain their amendments? Excuse me, there's Mr. Divković. Do you have your amendment? There is. Your amendments are in place. Yeah, yeah. I will suggest, of course, my amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I have only one amendment to this law – in Article 71(1) I propose that it be changed and read – "The State Veterinary Council is the advisory body of the ministry. Members shall be appointed by the Minister, but by the representative of the Office of the Entity Veterinary Service of the Brcko District, the Veterinary Colleges, the Veterinary Centres and veterinary chambers and other recognised experts in the field of veterinary medicine.' So this is a proposal just to reduce an unnecessary bureaucratic apparatus that currently Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot finance from its own budget. So my only condition was that no official bureaucratic apparatus was created needlessly through the laws that someone might intend to grow into the Ministry of Veteran of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but this is not the time when we can have megalomanical demands, because there is no means for such demands. So if there is a positive attitude against this amendment that is not of a political nature, I will vote for this law in the second reading. I've had more amendments, and I've withdrawn the others by wanting to create an atmosphere to adopt the law. Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. 38 We move to a declaration of amendments. Who is it to adopt the amendment of Nikolej Špirić in this text that I read? - Ten for who's against it? - 1 v. I Konstatuj that the amendment is accepted and that it is an integral part of the text of the law. To the people of the Parliamentary Assembly delegate Momčilo Novaković, is this has its amendment I. The adopted amendment of Ilija Šimić, so this amendment to amendments, number 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 is deleted and the text of the bill remains. So he returns to the original text of the Council of Ministers of Law. Who is it to adopt this amendment to Momčilo Novaković? - Five for who's against it? - 6 versus Six v, 5 for, I find that this amendment has not been accepted and has not become an integral part of the text. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no more amendments. The others are incorporated into the law. We're moving on to a plea. Who is it that the Proposal for a Law on Veterinary of BiH is adopted in a second reading along with my amendment that has become an integral part of the text of the law? - Ten for who's against it? Are there any abstentions? 1 abstentioned I am pleased to conclude that we have passed a law on the veterinarian of Bosnia and Herzegovina in a definite version. And now I ask you to form a committee for alignment, given that the laws have been adopted in different texts in two homes. If I may suggest from the order of the Serb from the Serbian People's Club, then I suggest Mr. Momčilo Novaković, whom they propose, Mr. Jerko Ivanković of the Croatian people, I ask the Bosniaks to propose from the Bosnian people's order. We must wait for Mr Ibro Spahić. They suggest, please, nice to formality, here is the proposal of Munib Jusufović, president of the club. Who's in? Please, if anyone from the service can call Mr. Ibro Spahić, he is inclined to this exhibition to delight both hallways and halls, but that is not good. If he'd gotten past Sarajevo, Ibro would've gone crazy. Yes, Mr. Novaković, Jusufović, Ivanković will be our committee to agree with the commission from another home. Unanimity. Thank you very much. 39 We move to the 17th point of the Ad agenda. 17. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the BiH Air Force Act, first reading by the Council of Ministers' Proposer. You've received the law as well as a report from the committee responsible. This is the first reading in accordance with Article 90 of the Law. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. Here's what I'm going to say. Ladies and gentlemen of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Air Force of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is therefore a matter of technical changes which are important in order to raise to as high a level as possible what concerns aviation, the safety of passengers travelling to Bosnia and Herzegovina and outside Bosnia and Herzegovina, and therefore I want to declare that I am in order to adopt this law in the first reading. Several amendments have arrived, and it seems to me that it takes a little time for these amendments to be agreed and the law in the definitive version to be passed. I hope there's no need to talk about how much it takes to get to this legal solution, and that's why I plead that I will support this law in my first reading. Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. We plead. Who is it to adopt the amendment and extension laws of the Air Force Act in the first reading? Who's in? Who's counting? - 12 for who's against it? Who's being held back? 12 for, 1 for abstention. I find the draft law amending and supplementing the BiH Air Force Act was adopted in the first reading. Thank you. 11 for one abstention. I'm asking the nice service to count. If I have to count the service, they won't need to sit next to me. We're moving to the 18th point of the agenda. Ad. 18. The decision to determine printing transactions from the state-owned interest of Proposer Sejfudin Tokić has been reached. Is there any point in having a debate without a proposal? There isn't. Who's so we don't have a debate? There's no realtor. Who's in? Please pick up the charts, don't be so shy. Who's counting here? - 11 for who's against it? I don't mind. - No, one abstention, I konstatovati we've made a decision not to lead. Two abstentions. I'm asking the nice service to count and report. So we made a decision not to have a debate because the promoter is gone. 40 We move to the 19th point of the agenda. Ad. 19. Ratification of the Agreement on Development Loan Road Management Project and Security between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the World Bank I am opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? He's got a report from the commission, so he's got a positive view of the commission. Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Who is it to ratify the BiH-World Bank Development Credit Agreement? I'm asking you to vote for delegates to leave the debate behind. I'm asking Mr. Turjačanin to keep an eye on him. Ten for, who's against? I'm begging you a little patience, it's a pain in the ass, but. Who's being held back? No one's against it. I find that we unanimously have implemented a ratification of the Agreement on Development Credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the World Bank, a road and security management project. We're going to the 20th point of the agenda. Ad. 20. A report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2001 has given you a report from the competent commission. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Genjac picked up the phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u3011	Dear colleagues, in the report on the execution of the Budget for the past year, I have identified one mistake that may be intentional or not intentional. I point to her for principled reasons. In order to discuss Budget, this misunderstanding needs to be resolved in more detail. Namely, in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the rebalanced budget adopted last year's item – expenditure on material and services was planned 435 000. That's the information from the official messenger, the official list, and that's the information we adopted, and that's the law. That's why the item is part of the law. This item is the law we passed. The report on the implementation of the Budget states that for this item - expenditure on material and services in the rebalanced budget was provided for 837 thousand, so double the amount and of course 837 thousand were spent, so double the amount. So compared to how planned it is in Budget and how much we really adopted in the rebalanced budget the breakthrough of the item is 200%. I note this is mainly about travel costs. A report on the execution of the Budget has accessed technology that has so far not been seen to put in the item as much as it has been spent and then to say 100% spent, there is no breakthrough. I point out this because this really is an insult to the common sense of 41 MPs, which is an unremembered practice, and I haven't really noticed this until now in my parliamentary term and experience. In other words, it's a fake. And I'm asking that some competent ministry answer what's going on here so we can talk more, because I don't think counterfeits can be debated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u3012	I thank Mr. Genjac. Who's next to the word? Does anyone from the ministry have a response to a respected delegate named Genjac? There is. We have a quorum. There's no quorum. Where's Mr. Spahić? I would ask Mr Spahić if he really would, if we would do well to finish this session today. Pre-election campaigns and ministerial chairs after 6th while the people say what they think of us. I'm asking you to sit down. You can't sit on the corners and be present. I'm asking if you'd like to attend. ... That's what we'll decide if we wait for the minister or if we work. The Minister cannot command Parliament. Here you go, Mrs. Ković. Perhaps the ministers can command Parliament as well. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u3013	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives. I would like to say that the Council of Ministers' decision has led to a change in the structure of expenditure, so that it is not falsified data, but all changes in the Budget report have been made on the basis of the Council of Ministers' decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u3014	I thank Minister Ković. Wrong quote, replica, Mr. Genjac. Resumption of the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u3015	So I would ask you to consult the Law on the Implementation of Budgets, which lists who can make the change and whose request may be subject to a change in budget items. Because it is clearly stated there that the user can submit, the budget user, so the Parliamentary Assembly can submit a request and, on the basis of that request, can be changed. As far as I know, and I am well aware of the Parliamentary Assembly, such a request has not been filed. That this is my very well-founded warning also indicates the findings of the general auditor. The report on the revision of the Parliament Assembly for 2001, where auditors indicate that the audit found that the management of the Budget was not at a segregating level. It refers to the revision of the Parliamentary Assembly, as certain excesses of certain budget items have been established in relation to the funds made in accordance with the Budget Implementation Act. The above mentioned significant excesses refer to the following budget items – expenditure on material and services of 402 000 or 92% more than planned. And contracted services of 28 or 24% more than planned, etc. So it's an auditor's report. 42 I warn of this and ask that this warning be found in the record, of course for the later fate of all that is happening with the Budget and what arises from the excess of the budget items. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u3016	I'd like to thank the delegate, Genjac. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who is it to adopt a report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international obligations for 2001? Who's in? - 4 for who's against it? - 2 versus Who's abstentioned? 5 abstentions What is the fate of the decision? Entirely. Who's from the Federation to adopt? - 3 for no support. So no report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2001 has been adopted. We're going to the 21st point of the agenda. Ad. 21. Report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for BiH for period 1. - In the third financial year 2002, you received a report from the committee responsible. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u3017	The report on the implementation of the budget for this accounting period is therefore desirable for the first quarter by its rules of procedure, announced as a possibility and considered in a way that is received as information. I would like to warn of a few questions that arise simply from this approach in the way in which the report on the execution of the Budget for the first quarter of this year is presented. First of all, in the methodology for drawing up this report, the comparison of the items not with the rebalanced budget, but with the provisional financing decision. You know that only in May, in June we adopted the Budget for this year and I understand that there was a need for a temporary decision to finance the first three months, because we still haven't had a budget for this year. However, in drawing up this report I draw attention, I draw attention to the fact that this way of comparing the items leads to a worrying disproportionateness and data which are very worrying and which will only be shown at the end of the year or next year. Namely, I give an example. Under a provisional decision by the Council of Ministers for the first three months, it was planned to carry out 62 million KM for the service of io debt. 49 million were executed. At the same time, the decision was provisionally based on the rebalanced 2001 budget when only 204 million were planned to serve the ino debt. 43 However, a 292m commitment was established for this year in the final budget for the service of io debt. So not 202, but 292 million. If you take 292 million to service the debt this year, then it turns out that for the first quarter of this year, the debt is 73 million. Only 49 million were executed, or 50. 20 million or 23 million is less than the adopted budget. If this trend continues for four three-month periods this year, it could be 80 to 90 million. I'm warning you. I'm warning you because I don't know that entities will have a greater possibility of serving and providing their fighting facilities in the second quarter than this quarter. Especially when it comes to the fact that the Budgetary Institution of BiH is the Presidency, which has submitted to the Council of Ministers' proposal specifically stated and strictly under the head of foreign debt service, so the Presidency states at the time when we adopted the Budget that this year we are faced with a significant growth in external debt commitments of 292,387,209,00 KM, which is higher by 87 million from 2001. These obligations are the first rank of priorities and cannot be delayed. The growth of these commitments affects the inability of additional entity support for the functional part of the budget. Since the comparison of the execution items was made on the basis of a decision on temporary financing, since the budget adopted is significantly different from that provisional decision, this report gives a very distorted picture of the execution of the Budget and, of course, I cannot support this report, but I warn that at the end of the year, in full capacity, this information will be disproportionate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u3018	I thank Mr. Genjac. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Who is it to adopt a report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international commitments for the period of 1-3rd financial 2002? Who's in? Who's against it? 4 for, 2 against who's restrained? – 5 abstentions Who is from Republika Srpska to adopt this report for? - is no one to Konstatuj that the report has not been adopted. We're moving to agenda 22. Ad. 22. Report on the work of the Commission on the status of natural persons during the period 6.4.'92. the year until the entry into force of the BiH Constitution, subjector of the Council of Ministers. We have information, do we have anyone from the Council of Ministers who wants to explain the information? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u3019	The word is Mr. Špirić. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u3020	Ladies and gentlemen, we have received a comprehensive report on the work of the Commission to consider the status of naturalised persons in the period 6.4.'92 until the entry into force of the BiH Constitution. You know that in the two mandates of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, these reports have been sought, that there have been different information and disinformation in the public of BiH are well-intentioned and malicious. And here we finally received a report from the commission, and the report refers to the list of persons deprived of citizenship at Commission meeting 17 and 18. 1. 2002. That's about 49 citizens somewhere. What the BiH Parliament is interested in, so we do not need dry information to be informed of how many people are, but the reasons why, why citizenship has been taken and whether the BiH institutions have taken certain measures following the Commission's findings. We also have a list of people who have confirmed citizenship and a large number of people who have been checked by the Commission outside the mandate, so beyond this period. It is well of course that we have come to this list, but I think simply this list should be returned to the Commission to give Parliament information, therefore descriptive information for those citizens who have been deprived of citizenship, regardless of which countries are originating whether from Yugoslavia, Croatia, Algeria, Sudan, Jordan, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, etc. So I agree that it is good that we have the starting information, but it is my request that the Commission supplement this report, especially for deprived citizenship in BiH, that it would be subject to different speculation and abuse for any political purposes. Only then will I consider that we have received a full report. It seems to me that this report is a collection of reports received by the Commission from the field, and you know what all the territory in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been subject to precisely for the period covered by the Commission's work against the surveys of the citizenship of individual citizens, i.e. individual citizens who have received citizenship from Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I demand, of course, that it depends on your support that this report is complemented only when it comes to being taken away, so the people whose citizenship has been taken away to list the reasons for every person, there are not many 50 of them so that we as the House of Peoples would have a political stance on what was happening in our country. Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Who is it to adopt this report with this conclusion that we are asking this same commission to send us so complete this list of arguments only for deprived citizenship. Who's in? Unanimity. Thank you. We're moving to agenda 23. Ad. 23. I want ladies and gentlemen to inform you that we have received a letter from the Council of Ministers from this commission who worked on this job under Miodrag Pandurević, Ibrahim Đikić, Ivo Kuliš, Jusuf Halilagić, Zlatko Miletić, Slobodan Nagradić. They ask us, therefore, that they are seeking to see the House of Peoples, or Parliament, whether the valid citizenship of persons who have received citizenship is related to Article 3. aneks A. opšti Framework Agreement, which said that citizenship, that persons who were found after the signing of the Dayton 45 Peace Agreement in Bosnia and Herzegovina's armed forces, was then a decadent stance to leave Bosnia and Herzegovina, whether their citizenships were valid. You received a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission in which the Constitutional and Legal Commission stood on, held the view that it was illegal and illegal citizenship and that competent institutions should take the next steps. I'm opening up a debate. This was just for your information. Who's answering for a word? So you have a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission where it is said – The Constitutional and Legal Commission of the People's House has mostly adopted the following position: The admission of persons to BiH citizenship after the signing of the Dayton Agreement, and on the basis of participation in the Armed Forces of BiH under the current law on citizenship of the Republic of BiH, and bearing in mind Article 3. Anexa Ia. The General Framework Agreement for Peace BiH is not valid and legally valid. The Commission has decided to refer this position to the House of Peoples of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for further consideration. So today we have the opportunity to confirm or not confirm the position of the Constitutional and Legal Commission regarding these citizenships. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. No Niko's answering. Here you go, Mr. Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u3021	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I was the only member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission who voted against this conclusion for two reasons. For one formal and one essential reason. The formal reason is that the Commission that is to examine citizenship has addressed the Constitutional Commission, the Constitutional and Legal Commission of the People's House and the Constitutional and Legal Committee should have made a definitive decision and when it was seen that there is no quorum for the adoption of this final decision of the Commission to be delivered to this committee that has sought our opinion, then one such...to be some advisory opinion then there is a quorum and that it goes to the House. So that's one thing. And secondly, I did not support this conclusion that all the citizens that were issued, i.e. all admissions to Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizenship after 15.12.95. years illegal for the reason that we are in violation of the Law on the Citizenship of the Republic of BiH. I don't want to violate the laws of this country, and that's why I was against not stopping anyone from questioning all admissions to citizenship. Generally to make this decision, it is a violation of human rights, because please be nice, it is true that persons of foreign origin, who were in the armed forces of BiH within 30 days of the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement, should have left and left BiH. But this does not mean, at the same time, that if any of these persons have come to terms under the law of the Republic of BiH for admission to citizenship that they cannot apply for citizenship, let's say at a diplomatic consular office outside BiH. So I repeat, I do not prevent those citizenships being questioned, let them be questioned from case to case, but generally take such a position within themselves, therefore, such a procedure carries the danger of violating fundamental human rights and freedoms and, of course, the Law on the Citizenship of the Republic of BiH. Thank you so much. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u3022	I thank Mr. Džaferović. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Who is to adopt this report, or take the same position taken by the Constitutional and Legal Commission on these citizenships? - 11 for who's against it? - One against who's restrained? - 2 abstentions I konstatuj that we have supported the position of the Constitutional and Legal Commission regarding the citizenship that was acquired after 15.12.95. a year in Bosnia and Herzegovina based on belonging to the armed forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're moving to agenda 24. Ad. 24. Information from the Council of Ministers on the process of adopting a Regulation on the quality of oil derivatives Do we have anyone from the Council of Ministers to submit a report? Here you go. Minister, Mr. Nikola Kragulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u3023	I'm sorry, I don't have written information, but
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u3024	I apologize, Mr. Kragulj, we wanted to have written information today, a written clue, the Council of Ministers received a request in time from the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. I don't think you're responsible, I think there was a place today of the Council of Ministers' chair here to submit an introductory presentation or written information. Don't be angry. I have to ask the House if we're ready to talk on the basis of oral information about the serious things that rock Bosnia and Herzegovina, which the citizens leave with no significant resources, and this is about 100 million KM. I think this shows complete irresponsibility, don't mind me, the Council of Ministers as a whole and the Chairman of the Council of Ministers. But here I am asking my colleagues, are we ready on the basis of oral information even though the Council of Ministers was delivered 10 days ago requesting that we have written information. Who is it, then, that the Council of Ministers delivers written material related to the problem we were looking for? Who's being held back? He doesn't mind anyone. I unanimously thank Mr. Minister Kragulj. Give your regards to the chairman that it's time for him to do his job. Thank you very much. Moving to point 25, Ad. 25. Interruption of delegates Ibrahim Spahić Dama and gentlemen, the resolution minister is on his way. He prayed if this point could be delayed, and we're a serious home and I think so. If there's a solution, please. Here you go. 47 So we move to point 25, Ad. 25. Interruption of delegate Ibrahim Spahić
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u3025	I suggest if it's possible with the Minister's call to take a break for lunch by 3:00 and it'll be over.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u3026	Wait a minute, please, this is what it says here. The Council of Ministers was delivered, the resolution minister was heard, we are a serious House that must not depend on whether the minister is on his way or not. You know, if Dom appreciates the deputy minister's ability, we'll come forward again. Who appreciates being deputy minister? How can he not? Stop slowly, Mr. Spahić, I'm presidencies. Who's to let the Deputy Minister orally?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u3027	We can't vote on that.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u3028	It can't, it can't. Please. He can't be a deputy under the Statute and Rules of Procedure. Please read it. Who's that? Please let's go to the vote. If you get support, you'll get support. Who's that? He didn't talk, that's why we voted. It's not. Who is it to do without the minister's presence to the Deputy Minister? Who's in? Who is it that this item of the agenda goes with the explanation of the Deputy Minister? Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Who's from Republika Srpska for? - There's no one, Dama, and gentlemen, I realize we've exhausted the agenda. I want the ministers to come to the meetings. There's still a point, we're moving to the 27th point of the agenda. I apologize to Mr. Halid Genjac, 26th Point. Ad. 26. The information about the illegally assigned land, i.e. the assignment of the land of the state We had the conclusion of this house to the Council of Ministers from two months ago, full of two months. Do we have written material and a report from the ministry? Any of the ministers? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a sign of what kind of Council of Ministers we have. I won't say anything else. 48 Does Mr. Genjac insist that we conduct the debate, and we have no information?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u3029	So I do.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u3030	Wait a minute, please, let's listen to the man who was looking for the agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u3031	It's the conclusion of this home from 2 months ago and 10 days to discuss it within 2 months. So all I need is information on whether the Council of Ministers did anything to prepare this information or didn't do anything? Or is he going to take over and when are we going to get information? Is there anyone outside the Council of Ministers to answer and that's enough?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-05-0.u3032	Is there anyone alive that can respond to our delegate in this House from the Council of Ministers? Is there anything or is there nothing? So there's nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm closing the session. I thank Mr. Genjac and your delegates for their patience. I hope after 6:00 we have a more serious Council of Ministers. Thank you very much. The session was completed at 1400 hours.
