ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2283	Ladies and gentlemen, honored delegates, esteemed guests and distinguished representatives of public information funds, I am opening the 18th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that all 15 delegates are present at the session. Of which five in the Bosniak order, five in the order of the Croatian and five in the order of the Serb people. So today's session has a quorum and can make full and full decisions. For today's session, you've got the agenda. Therefore, the College proposed the following agenda: 1. Answers to delegates' questions and delegates' questions; 2. Journal of the 17th session of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 3. The appointment of delegates to the House of People for members of the Joint Commission of both homes to reach an agreement on the same text: (a) the Law on Administrative Procedure, (b) the Law on Administrative Disputes, 4. The Commission’s report to the College on the alignment of amendments to the management law; 5. Declaration by the People's House on the consideration under Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Law on conflict of interest in the BiH institutions – legislator Nikola Špirić; 6. Declaration by the People's House on the consideration under Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of BiH – Proposer of delegate Jerko Ivanković; 7. Declaration by the People's House on the consideration under Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples on Amendments and Supplements of the Central Bank Act – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 8. Declaration by the People's House on the consideration under Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Law on the Insurance of Deposits of BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 9. Law on the Information and Protection Agency of BiH – Proposer of the BiH Presidency – Second reading; 10. Giving consent to the ratification of the contract for development credit agreement Project for the private sector between BiH-RS and the International Development Association – BiH Presidency; 2 11. Giving consent to the ratification of the agreement between BiH and the SRJ on the promotion and protection of investments – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 12. Giving consent to ratification... on the accession of BiH, the Statute of the Council of Europe – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 13. Financial report from the Central Bank for 31.12.2001 – Central Bank of BiH; 14. The Annual Report of the Central Bank of BiH for 2001 – Proposer of the Central Bank of BiH report; 15. The operational plan fulfils the obligations of BiH to join the Council of Europe; 16. Report on the implementation of the 2001 BiH Presidency budget – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 17. Report on the operations of the BiH Financial Business Audit Office for 2001 – Proposed by the Office for Audit. Before we move to a debate on the agenda, I would like to inform you that the Joint Commission on the alignment of the text of the State Service Act has sent a report to the House of Peoples in which it finds that, unfortunately, they have not reached agreement. It is therefore considered that the law has not been passed and is being re-proceded. So, make a new law. The other information I want to inform you with is that we will be working 15 to 12 today and then we will take a break to address his Excellency as High Representative of Mr Pedi Eždaun to the plenary session of both Houses of Parliament. So we'd take a break from 15 to 12 to half three, and if, therefore, we'd continue from half three sessions over the remaining agenda points. Third information, relating to the budgetary adoption situation and the need to conclude the extension agreement with the World Bank and the IMF, has decided to shorten the budget procedure and we have scheduled a special session, so for 31st, on Friday at half past ten. You'll get calls and materials today. We are waiting for a statement from the House of Representatives, because it is the only document that requires the previous statement of the House of Representatives, which is scheduled for 29. We would have commissions on Thursday and a statement on the budget and budget law Friday. I've had so much. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Here you go. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Džaferović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2284	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, we passed a law on the purpose and use of concession funds at the last plenary session. On this occasion, it was clearly placed here in this hall that BiH charged about 15 million KM funds less by selling gold before the Succession Act was adopted. Mr. Domazet here at this pay phone was confirmed by the secretary of the vault. To the soul, he said it was a civil job and could have been a different difference, but it was undoubtedly confirmed that BiH would have sold the gold after the law was passed, today in its budget it has 15 million KM funds more. 3 Since this matter has been troubled for a long time and there is no proper action by the authorities, I propose that, as a special item of the agenda of the 18th point of the agenda, we include the establishment of a parliamentary ad-hoc parliamentary committee, which would investigate the completeness of this case, see what really happened and propose appropriate measures to this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2285	Thank you. I would pray only in writing that we can put it on the plea as a part of the agenda. Who's on the phone? Mr. Chairman Sejfudin Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2286	I would just like it to remain recorded in the stenogram that such a agenda, as far as I am concerned as a member of the College, is agreed, of course, on condition that all business procedures are respected and that all amendments adopted and proposed to the Agency law are taken into account simultaneously by the same procedure, which means that the Constitutional and Legal Commission in the session break would have to take views on the amendments that I have submitted. It is simply that any other approach would lead to an unequal position of the delegate, representatives who are under the same Rule of Procedure, following a decision by the College to allow subsequent amendment to be proposed by the Rules of Procedure. I would like to point out here and ask that we all remember that there have been proposals before, as far as selling gold to form ad-hoc commission and that many are envoys and delegates, it seems to me that the one who has now proposed voted at the same time on the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2287	I thank the other deputy, Mr. Tokić. Who's answering for a word? Correction of the wrong quote, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2288	This delegate has never voted against Mr. Tokić for such a proposal, because I think I belong to a group of delegates who advocate a principled solution to the problem. So I'm correcting your guilty allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2289	I thank Mr. Džaferović. Mr Ibrahim Spahić answered the words.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2290	Ladies and gentlemen, the chairman, Mr. Domazet, I would not talk about the goldsmith's gold, because... in stock speculation, hundreds more of these situations will be resolved when BiH has its name on the stock market, in the fullest sense. The only thing I would say is that it is interesting for the position and opposition to be replaced on this issue, and this is about 4 that it is necessary to clarify this matter and that only the Council of Ministers is legitimate and that the public story relating to this problem is removed, simply because it is not correct to block the work of the Treasury Minister and our state institutions, by having doubts expressed by the opposition's supporters and MPs. This creates a public impression as if no one here would make a clear answer. There are regulations and ways in which this thing is regulated in the world, both in BiH and as far as I know, Minister Domazet has given a public answer on several occasions. I don't know if we should do it again, then we ask a question from a whole other angle, but about that, we have the opportunity to express ourselves here by answering the question of delegates and answers, so it would be good to really relieve this Parliament of what is possible, it is possible beyond the range of our responsibilities, by forming different bodies, by formalising one relationship, but I think we already have a very clear vision in the public and she has no one in this public life rejected as far as I am... as unfounded, not from people who are engaged in this profession by domestic and international experts. If there is some other kind of doubt in the work and operation of the ministry and the minister, there is always the possibility of asking a question and seeking a direct answer. The consequences are practically the same, but I don't think one case should be produced in this respect, given that those who were the loudest before a while ago
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2291	I'm begging you... three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2292	It's not even a minute and a half, or they're in a position to have better knowledge. So we wouldn't complicate it. Now, as far as the agenda is concerned, there are two points. First, with Mr. Tokić, I agree that it is necessary for the commission to determine ustavno-pravni and according to its amendments, possibly if there are now some amendments that will be delivered during this session, as obviously the session will be interrupted by a certain time, it is possible that it will continue today or somewhere on Friday. I think the principle position should be to determine ourselves according to these amendments, given that they are not formal in nature and that they are changing the text proposal if they are accepted by the Commission during the procedure. That's the first thing I wanted to say. I wanted to hold this committee session, but this session could not be held for the same reasons as some other committee meetings, due to the formal lack of quorum, which is always created when two members from one nation are not present at a committee session or do not accept that they are participating in the work of that commission. In that case, I would also like to say that Mr. Volgang Petrič, who is up to 12.45 or perhaps not since this morning since 7 o'clock, has passed Mr. Špirić, and that the agenda should be removed from the law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions, because the law has been declared. The only way is for Mr Špirić to take a direct role as Mr Turjačanin and Tokić did before, and other MPs, it is quite right to take over the laws of the High Representative as their own and propose them by emergency resignation so that, here today, if, of course, it is formally possible for this law to be declared by Parliament itself and 5 after having some amendments, Mr Špirić would give these amendments to this law and other delegates. Otherwise, such a formalised proposal for the agenda by Mr Špirić cannot be accepted, because it is simply in conflict with the fact that the visok Representative has declared this law by his decision and is in front of delegates today at this session by law, along with other acts that Mr Petrič has declared for the past few days. Therefore, my proposal, for a debate at today's session, is that under point 1 we accept Mr. Tokić's suggestion to hold a session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Under point 2 we should ask Mr Špirić to drop the point of the draft law on conflict of interest in BiH and thus create conditions for us to adopt the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2293	I thank Mr Spahić. The river has Mr. Novaković and behind it Mr. Ivo Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2294	Dear Chairman, fellow delegates, esteemed guests, I came out to comment here on a proposal to convene a session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission at the break and to discuss the amendment to the law on the Information and Protection Agency in BiH. We all know that the amendment procedure under this law has long passed. We had this law in the first reading at this home and he went to the alignment. In the phase of harmonisation of the law, on the initiative of the UN Mission, Mr Gravel, Mr Špirić and I agreed three amendments, and then, as far as I knew the College had decided to extend the amendment phase so that it could discuss the three amendments. After that, the Constitutional and Legal Commission held a session, accepted the three amendments and completed the procedure for this law. Gentlemen, the amendment procedure is over. Every further story about some new amendments is absolutely impossible, business cannot do that. Secondly, Mr. Tokić's amendments have not been amended to these three amendments and to accept the possibility, since these three amendments have changed the text of the law. These are amendments to the text, part of the text that went through the procedure, and it really doesn't make any sense. I'll be here, if it's decided to ask the UN mission to come forward. Gentlemen, the change of this law no longer obliges me, I speak for myself now, and I suppose Mr Špirić also obliges us to honor what we have agreed with Mr. Gravel. I beg you, don't question the adoption of this law, and the way you're going right now is going in that direction. I'm really asking you to do this job as agreed with the UN mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2295	I thank Mr. Novaković. Mr. Tokić reported incorrectly. Here you go. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2296	Of course, I thought that at least before the end of the term of office all MPs would know enough the Rules of Procedure to know how to handle it and simply not to call themselves to the Rules of Procedure in a way that they deny themselves. It was not the college's decision that three amendments would open up an emergency deadline to anyone but to open the deadline for the amendment in principle. Otherwise, that's how the College works, and it'll work. It is a business obligation, so the extended deadline, in accordance with Article 89 to the sitting itself and in the same procedure, is subject to the amendments that you, I see, have now agreed with the UN Mission, which is very nice to me and my amendments. Therefore, I ask nothing more than to do business, what the basic spirit provides for full equality. Secondly, I'm worried about the fact, because, I, for one, have to say a little bit that I was skeptical that someone was simply trying to obstruct the work of the Commission here. Yeah, when the commission was scheduled that someone wouldn't come to the committee. That, indeed, is a serious precedent, and I'm glad I heard you wouldn't attend, come to that committee. The matter is very clear business and what I would ask, regardless of your close ties with the UN with any UN name, that here only in the categories of BiH institutions you react and leave the UN to be where they are, and I highly appreciate their work to help us reach as high-quality law as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2297	I thank Mr. Tokić. Correction of the wrong quote, replica? netačan quote Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2298	I want to handle article 89 that says so. The delegates and clubs of the people may propose amendments that dispute the amendments that the Commission has included in the original text. So, these amendments that dispute the amendments that the commission is. As far as I am aware, none of Mr. Tokić's amendments challenge these three amendments and cannot be included in Article 89. Please don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2299	I thank Mr. Novaković. The word has Mr. Tokić. I'd like to ask you, if it's possible to bring her in, this is a debate on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2300	I have a rich experience with manipulation and Rules of Procedure, etc. The amendments you have made and so kindly agreed with UN representatives were possible to come into the procedure on the basis of Article 89(3) because all deadlines for amendment had already been passed and then the College, with a kind agreement, allowed the new amendment to be submitted and the deadlines for this amendment were until the sitting. So, I'd beg you, otherwise, for the sake of correctness we're not trying to do what would be cheating on the public. So, according to the same procedure, both yours and my amendments have been submitted. I ask that only by the same procedure be considered 7 and if, in this House session, you should report twice for a word from the chairman's committee, I think that we are facing something that reminds you of the old times of obstruction.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2301	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Ivo Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2302	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have a business in the name of the club to sort of confirm what Mr. Spahić was saying. In fact, when we got the agenda, we were completely in a different legal situation than we were today after the High Representative's law was declared. In particular, I am talking about point 5, i.e. the Law on conflict of interest in BiH institutions. The objective question is how can we today discuss the law when there is already a law. So we can't make two laws. We would have to clear or adopt the law of the High Representative and then go into the procedure of amending and supplementing that law, or today this law is removed from the agenda and the proposal of the Hrvat Club is precisely because of this legal situation where we are in order to remove this law from the agenda. By the way, I have to admit that we were and personally I was very in the mood to discuss this law that was passed by the High Representative, because I don't consider it an ideal law. I consider it a law that would have something to talk about, because there were, indeed, reasons to invest amendments, etc., but we are currently in the legal and business situation we are in. There's so much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2303	Mr. Špirić, the chairman, has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2304	Dear fellow delegates, esteemed guests, with the goal of perhaps bringing the agenda debate to an end. Of course, you received the materials seven days before the meeting of the House, it's a business procedure and, of course, you're right when the fifth item of the agenda is to declare the House of Peoples' consideration under Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Law on conflict of interest in BiH institutions, which was imposed by the High Representative. In that sense, I am prepared that this point, so that we do not get into a situation again, whether we later or not, therefore, to reshape this point in terms of the House of Nations' statement of consideration under Article 100. Rules of Procedure, to confirm this law today. We have a chance to have on the agenda, to vote and, of course, to take advantage of what we haven't done so far, to amend the way in which someone who has an objection to that law is going to start amendments and additions to that law. So, if you're willing to support such a proposal today, I'm willing to ask for the transformation of that point, in a way that we can plead by Article 100. Another thing that might be good today, which would relax a little bit of this debate, about the agency law and protection. We don't have a proposing present at five points today, i.e. The presidency. So, if we discuss amendments to the laws on supplementary interpretations, we will be denied their position, as a legislator, and 8 the only business possibility exists that the House of Peoples should conclude, in particular, to remove the agenda points for the next session at which the proposings should be present. I'm afraid we're gonna take a break today, so I'm afraid we won't come to a solution. This would give us a little time to maybe talk a little bit more about some things and the laws that are subject to, which should be the subject of today's session. So, I'm ready for that, too, if there's a mood in the House. That is, therefore, the conclusion of the eye should be made by the House. It is very difficult to talk about the Law on Amendments, unless the Proposer is in a position to state his position and that is the legislator. But if you appreciate that it can relax the situation, I'm willing to offer it as a conclusion. If you appreciate that it's not good, then we will plead to the agenda as it is, as you received in the invitation. So I don't want to discuss the essence of the law so we don't open up controversy on the agenda, just to see how we can get out of this. Thank you very much, and I agree that by article 100, that item 5 of the agenda goes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2305	Thank you, Chairman. He was looking for Dr. Genjac, or...
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2306	Replica Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2307	Mr. Chairman, I would just like to say that my proposal was very pragmatic, when it comes to this bill of law on conflict of interest to the BiH authorities and, therefore, I do not think that it is possible to be point 5 at the end of the session if we are to read this law to Mr. Petrič and if we are to declare and confirm, however, we should know what the text is. The MPs could not come to the session until now to read the law, and since they will be working on the agenda they will not be able to deal with this law, they will deal with other issues. So there are two possibilities. Only if your law, which you were proposing seven days ago for this agenda is the exact text of Mr. Pretrič who adopted it, if it is completely identical, then there is no dispute. If you confirm that it is completely identical, I can take your word for it as a fellow delegate, but I would, I would hate to compare it, which you found the first time when you accepted my initiative to accept that we are going by article 100 and I would recommend that if my colleagues agree to be at the end of the agenda, that we might get the chance to read it. You won't mind that pre-tumbation. Otherwise, on the basis of the proposal, the law and decisions of Mr High Representative of the outgoing, I would like to say that it is very important that this Parliament, since, as I would say, in its dominant majority, or as you say in its Allianceal Decrination according to the self-sustaining parliamentary legislative decree, you should serve the rule that Mr Špirić has taken from my side, which is that all decisions that Mr Petrič has not had to be concentrated on this by any special MP, I suggest that all three 9 clubs, on behalf of all three clubs of all the chairmans, are Mr Novaković, Mr Jusufović and Mr Divković meet these days and prepare a proposal on behalf of all three clubs, that, following the urgent procedure of their adoption of the laws proposed by Mr Petrič, in order to open the procedure in Parliament, if there is a need of someone and some particular, then these laws are amended. I think it is quite incorrect and it would be a great burden for these few dozen decisions by Mr Petrič in the past few hours, which he made, a few days ago, to remain as a single picture of this parliament for its indigestion, therefore, because of the heavy burden of internal work, and so Mr Petrič said the inability of parliamentary functioning in BiH was obliged...
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2308	I'd like to beg you in the framework of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2309	I would ask, since it is within this proposal of yours to accept the proposal to be the final item of the agenda, and my initiative that the three chairing three clubs, Bošnjak, Srbin and Hrvat, prepare for the proposal on their behalf of our clubs to adopt all laws and decisions adopted by Mr. Petrič and to create conditions for normalising parliamentary life in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2310	I thank Mr Spahić. Who's next to the word? Mr. Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2311	Presidents, respected colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, above all one intervention. I ask the College to do its job, that what they have agreed to treat here as their position on the agenda, and, too, the issue of disputed deadlines around the amendments, and I would really ask the MPs to put their parliamentary obligations above all, and to take care of the meetings of the committees and, in good time, to deliver amendments and to honor this harassment. So, the College should decide on the procedure, as it has done countless times so far, calling for business obligations. It's an intervention. I have a proposal to supplement the agenda, to add one before all these points, which would be called information on the High Representative's decisions on the declaration of the law on meeting the obligations from the Roadmap to BiH, and this information would be submitted by the College. Explanation. At one of the talks before the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the High Representative for BiH stressed that, after last elections, a multinational government finally established in BiH, committed to strengthening the state, welcomed the formation of the Alliance in the Federation and stressed that the Alijansa had joined advanced parties from RS. The leader of our disputed delegation to the Council of Europe said at one address that there is a consensus in BiH on BiH's accession to the Council of Europe and stressed a consensus on meeting its commitments. From the European Commission, they provide information that the Council of 10 ministers constantly assesses that there are no political obstacles to the adoption of the law. When all these are added together, therefore, there is a consensus on meeting the obligations, there are no political obstacles, and most importantly in the House of Representatives there are most of the parties that are characterised in the manner of groupings of parties of the Alliance, supported by advanced parties from the RS, and in the House of Peoples where we are sitting, literally all MPs from these parties except for two or three. The parties from the RS that joined, of course, elected president of the SDS Club of MPs, and there we have the configuration that only two MPs are in this House of Peoples from opposition parties. With all this in mind, these assumptions that the majority in parliaments are really asking the question, why has the High Representative in the last few days declared a tenth of the laws of extreme importance for BiH, why has it never happened as if only 3 or 4 of the laws adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly and dozens of laws adopted by the High Representative for the New Year's to date, why has the law happened for the first time, which did not come to the parliamentary procedure, declared by the High Representative, and it is a set of public service laws? So, all the laws at least tried in the Parliamentary Assembly, now it's not even tried, but the laws were declared. Why it happens that BiH's budget is not adopted after five months and all the vital interests of BiH institutions are being threatened. Why did this happen to us to guide moritoring, so, after being admitted to the Council of Europe, instead of adopting laws declared by the High Representative, we meet that obligation, we come to a situation where a large number of laws are declared by the High Representative? I support the High Representative's decision, of course. However, it is really necessary and the agenda here today that it confirms that the Parliamentary Assembly whose job is to adopt the law and in the situation in which BiH is located... noritoring, from the point of view
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2312	I'd like to ask you...
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2313	I conclude, and from the point of view of meeting the obligations of the Roadmap, why did this happen and who was responsible? I think that MPs should get an answer and open a dispersion on the subject, and that is why I propose a agenda point under this name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2314	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate on the agenda. So, we should now approach a statement on the agenda. We will first declare a request for an extension of the agenda, at the request of delegates Mr. Džaferović. He proposes a new point in forming a parliamentary commission, which would conduct an investigation into the sale of gold and concession funds. Who is this point to be the point of the agenda? - 8 He's got most, we have to look for the entity majority. Who's from the Federation, I apologize, who's against this decision? - Five against. Are there any others who can handle it? - 2 abstentions So. The decision has a majority. 11 Now we must complete the vote, seek the entity's majority. Who is from the RS against this decision? It's nobody. Who's in favour of the RS? - 5 for Niko against, there are no abstentions. Who's in the Federation against the decision? Five against. Who's in? - 3 for no entity majority so there will be no agenda point. We also have a proposal on Mr. Genjac's agenda. Information on the High Representative's decisions on the declaration of the law regarding meeting obligations from the Roadmap to BiH. Who's at this point in the agenda? We've closed the debate. I don't think we're in a situation like that on behalf of the College. Who's for such a part of the agenda? - Four for it. Who's against it? He didn't get most 3 for – 7 against. So it didn't become a part of the agenda. We are crossing the plea for and against the agenda you received in the invitation to the session. Who's for the agenda you got in addition? Point 5. I accepted, therefore, that there remain a plea under Article 100 of the Law, which was declared by the High Representative at the end of the agenda, a law that he declared, not by the one you received. So, it's a supplement, we need to make a special statement. Who's to move this point to the end of the agenda per article 100? 12. Who's against it? Who's being held back? - Three abstentions. So your point is shifted from point 5 to point 17. And there's a shift of dots of slopes for regular number one. We're going over the full agenda statement, who's for this kind of agenda as a whole? - 14 Who's against it? Who's being held back? – 1 I find that we have adopted the agenda that you have received in addition. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. Answers to delegate questions and delegate questions The answer to the question was received only by the delegate Mr Halid Genjac. There were no other answers. I ask that we use this delegate clock in a way that we can ask new questions in writing. Who's calling? To the answer first. Mr. Halid Genjac picked up the phone. Everybody gets a word, don't worry. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2315	Dear colleagues, almost two months ago, I asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Presidency. What they did in the wake of the arrests of BiH citizens in Skopje, with violence against those students and terror and after which they were released without any explanation. I received an answer from the Foreign Ministry, which I am absolutely dissatisfied with, because in response to the occasion, it follows, that an answer has been requested from the Macedonian authorities, that Macedonian authorities have said they will give an answer in Sarajevo, so they said we can't give it to Sarajevo, we will give it to Skopje, so our delegation went to Skopje, and they didn't answer there either, so they said they'd apologize that the students were not guilty and that we were wrong. However, there was still nothing to do with that statement and that apology. With this imperial approach, this incompetent approach by the BiH authorities, who have brought BiH into an inferior position, I express dissatisfaction, and since I have not received any response from the BiH presidency, it can be interpreted as being able to beat BiH citizens however they please and as they wish. I'm looking under Article 121. The Rules of Procedure of the House of People, item 5, where it is said that if the question is not answered within 25 days, the person who has applied the question has the right to insist that the point be placed on the agenda of the next session. Accordingly, I ask the College to place this issue on the agenda at the next session, respecting, of course, the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2316	I thank Mr Genjac, Mr Ivo Živković and Ibrahm Spahić and other Deputy Mr. Tokić, and Momčilo Novaković, for their words.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2317	Dear colleagues, my question will be about the steps recently taken by the Council of Ministers' representative, specifically the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers Mikerević, who, twenty days ago, spoke of talks held between BiH and other countries and related to the conclusion of a double citizenship agreement, stressed, among other things, that BiH had refused to sign a double citizenship agreement with some countries, that it was going to lead with some other countries, but that there were some discrepancies about some of the provisions of those agreements and that some countries had refused to sign the treaty, or were negatively made clear on the proposal for the signing of dual citizenship, because they do not have such an option in their constitutions. My question is, which states we are with, so my question is clearly addressed to the Council of Ministers and it says so. What countries are we before these contracts are signed and when are these dual citizenship contracts expected to be signed? With which countries are there discrepancies, and what are the discrepancies, and which countries have refused to sign a double citizenship agreement because of their constitutional restrictions?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2318	I thank delegate Divković, Mr Ibrahim Spahić has the word. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2319	My questions have already been asked in writing. If they haven't arrived during this session. First of all, I'd like to ask our colleague a question, did he get a college call, since I don't know, for this diaspora congress, the World Diaspora Congress in Teu Park on... It would be my pleasure to hear Mr Špirić and Mr. Mariofil Ljubić or the first or second vice-president, an authorised parliamentarian who would welcome the initiative to meet people from all over the world in BiH in an effort to form diaspora. There's one good part, one good piece and the heart and the soul and live... parts of BiH. Secondly, if not, I would ask that the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers, after registering that Mr. Beriz Belkić and Mr. Lagumdžija Zlatko were present there, give us information about what this congress was, what ideas were related to this congress and what they were on behalf of our country and, probably, in this way and in the name of Parliament, because we should, by some logic of things, give information and report, give some promise because it is very important for the whole of society in BiH. This is a principled question, and I would like it, not to answer me now, but simply to keep in touch with these BiH citizens, the citizens of BiH, who are in the world and who are most concerned by this problem that Mr. Divković has said about dual citizenship and many other issues such as identity, cultural, religious, political, national, whatever you want. Thank you very much for the attention you've shown for the interest that I have for this problem as much as you do. The second question is about asking the College
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2320	I'd like to ask Mr. Delegates, there's no business opportunity to ask the questions of the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2321	You can't be asked anything. Can I ask our office if we got a call, if the College can't, if we got an invitation to participate at the diaspora congress. You understand my question well, so I would ask you to somehow help him formulate it together, since you... Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2322	I would ask delegate Spahić to take delegate questions as a serious form, that in writing and that questions... and if he needs to talk to me, he will have a chance for two hours, three hours, but that the College does not bother us. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2323	Okay, and... and you'll have questions formulated as appropriate. Yes, you're right. As far as the second question is concerned, it was also sent in the same formula. It's like this. I'd like to ask Mr. Lagumdžija the next question. What are the qualifications and personnel working in the BiH embassies and what are the results of the so-called economic diplomacy, which BiH has declared here in the words of members of the presidency and foreign minister. I would find it interesting, given the fact that from what we've had the opportunity to see in London and beyond how someone likes to say it, it simply requires a single romantic response, because it's a fantastic structure called economic diplomacy, considering imports – exports to BiH, in terms of employment, investment, I'm curious about what is meant by economic diplomacy. Perhaps immediately as Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović often signs two times a day as contracts for new... commitments. That's what I formulated as a question. Do you already have Mr. Špirić on you, through the secretary of our council? The third question concerns Mr Mikerević, not the College. I hope that the College has accepted the interpretation that I sent to the Council of Ministers through the Rules of Procedure and I expect that Mr. Mikerević, who started his presentation, will, unfortunately, be interrupted at one of the next sessions, give answers to the questions raised in that interpretation. In the end, I'd like to say just one word about today's questions and answers. I'm amazed that after a year, and from month to month, I've asked the same question of the gentlemen who are in the Council of Ministers from month to month. How can it be explained that the Council of Ministers is exactly one year, today it seems 27, and in ten days it is exactly one year, how the Council of Ministers came up with our project, the project of the BiH Parliament, which they signed and signed, which is called "Entrepreneurship Society", and the subtitle has a global strategy, the framework global strategy for economic and social development in 2000-2004, so the retroactive work resulting from the work of the multi-annual parliament and ministers of various services and institutes, was recognised in 2001. On 7 June, here at Parliament at a joint session as a document, as a starting basis for the development of economic policy measures and radical economic reforms and reforms in social policy. From June 7th to this day, every month I ask the Council of Ministers and Ministers, never an answer, and here at the last session you have both a written and oral repeat question to the Council of Ministers. Whether the Council of Ministers intends to come out with a clear programme of economic and social reforms or to wait for a new mandate in this environment. Now, these are formulated questions, and for the first time, you're absolutely right. I'll try to adapt it to business matter when it's definitely formed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2324	I thank Mr Spahić. Next thing you know, Deputy Mr. Tokić has come forward.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2325	Is it accurate that some ministers and deputy ministers, in addition to their regular duties and tasks, are also performing the following functions. For example. 15 Minister Azra Hadžiahmetović Governor of the World Bank for BiH? Dominister Nikola Kragulj, Governor of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development? Minister Ante Domazet, governor of the IMF for BiH? Does the Council of Ministers, if this information is a point, appreciate that these functions are incompatible with the functions of the existing and that there is a danger that one and the same man is negotiating with himself? What are the fees of these ministers for performing tasks in the Council of Ministers and what are the fees of those ministers and dominants to perform their duties, if this information is correct in international institutions? I seek the answer in writing, for understandable reasons I find them very important to the current situation. My information regarding the three opposition MPs shows that this is an inherited practice that I personally think needs to be interrupted from the earlier period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2326	I thank Mr. Tokić. Mr. Novaković picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2327	I have two questions. The first question was addressed to the Council of Ministers. At what level is it agreed that the Act on BiH's admission to the Council of Europe should be signed by the foreign minister rather than by the chairman of the Council of Ministers? Second question. When will Serbian delegates get an office for their work, given that the only commission headed by a Srbin has no office, and Mr. Špirić's office is the chairman's office?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2328	Thank you. There's no replica of questions, it can only be a question. I'm just asking, if there's anyone to ask a question, the agenda point is delegate issues, and if we go into replicas, we can never get out. The replica can only ask a question. If it's a question, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2329	I'm one of the two opposition MPs in this house, I've been mentioned. I really need to ask further questions to make myself clear. I ask, therefore, if there were such cases in the previous Council of Ministers' mandate, because if I had known about it, I would have resigned immediately as Chairman of the House of Representatives or would have asked for the shift of those people. I didn't know, so I'm looking for an answer. At the same time, I am adding to the question, which is really important for the work of this house and can be asked businessly by the Council of Ministers, the Presidency and any institution. At the last session of the House of Nations, we had a discussion of the Law of Sucession. It is known that for six months, the law has been challenged, even by members of the College with the first variants, because there were few funds for development funds. In the new version, all resources are intended for consumption. There was no member of Mr. Tokic's College at that session, I thought, indeed, that he was justifiably absent. I was preneražen to learn that a member of the College on the day of the debate on such an important law was present at the Forum of Democratic Alternatives. So, alternatives to themselves in power, here performing power. 16 There are diaries, secretaries, cell phones, drivers, insurance, and on the day of such an important debate, a member of the College was at the Forum of Democratic Alternatives, likely to take some fee. When it comes to the Council of Ministers' double salary, I think this can be linked to getting an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2330	Thank you. Here's a question for Mr. Tokić. I ask you to come out of these questions, not by asking each other a question, but by institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2331	I stood up for it and it is this interpretation of the College that it is not good to ask ourselves a question. I, indeed, understand the deep frustrations, there is no better expression, Mr. Genjac, for your behavior than frustration, but I would beg you both of the chairman and all that we do not come to the dilemma to explain where who was at a certain time. Otherwise, the session I did not attend last time is the only session of the House of Peoples at which I was not present and it was neatly announced, even at the time of the appointment that this term did not suit me, but in between my wish to announce my opinion on the Law of Sucession and the need for the other MPs to choose that term, however, I gave up that wish. As for the above-mentioned conference, Mr Genjac, with more respect, I would refer to the conference of more than 30 different political NGOs, which are launching a global initiative of crucial, crucial importance for the future of BiH, as regards constitutional – constitutional legal reform. It is also a short answer to your curiosity, Mr. Genjac, and otherwise I am at your disposal in all breaks when you are interested in something where I have been kind enough to answer you nicely, and as far as the living room is concerned, I haven't used or had any fee or journals. And as for your diaries and your predecessors, the prosecution has been working quite slowly on this, and it shows that your party's leadership has been halved in the current course of the investigation, and I believe that by the end of the election procedure in different aspects, the abuse of position, the preparation of assassinations, millions of thefts, I doubt that part of the leadership will remain, but since you are not at the top of that leadership, your position does not know or interest me in what it will be.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2332	Thank you. In the best way to do it, to run it effectively. Niko one at this point in the agenda gets a chance to address one another in this way. Who's still answering for the word? Here's a question. But I ask you, if the questions are similar, I will interrupt you for the reason that we aim to make the work of the House effective. This doesn't look like it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2333	Mr. Špirić, you should have interrupted Tokić. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2334	I wanted you, but I thought you'd be mad, so I wanted Tokić, so I think he'll be mad, but I guess you're serious people.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2335	Mr. Špirić, I asked the question and you shouldn't have interrupted me. The moment Mr. Tokić started talking about the parties, the private impressions, the private talks in the hallway, you should have interrupted him. I'm not interested in Mr. Tokić as a private person, after all. I am interested in being a member of the College and so I ask him whether he was on something more respected than the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, or perhaps more respected by the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, or perhaps he should respect the House of Peoples where he receives the salary. As for criminal charges and charges, the previous audit of institutions that showed that Mr. Tokić's official travels were also transferred 300%.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2336	I'd like to ask you a question. There's no business we can ask each other, and I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2337	So you yourself are the chairman of the guilty, simply because, not so skilled an envoy, you have managed to manipulate the delegate with this. I ask the whole public, does after all, what has happened in BiH for the past ten years even make sense, that with such a guard one of these, one such envoy delegate comes out and tries to teach lessons after BiH is there, co-alating with the blackest fascist regimes.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2338	I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2339	I ask the question to all BiH institutions, is this possible, including public services, television, etc. After that organized theft, he comes out here today and tries to teach lessons. That is my question, and I am asking you to stick to the Rules of Procedure and, in future, allow you to ask only one who has submitted a written submission to the Rules of Procedure for the matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2340	There's no further addressing each other. I'm counting on you to take care of everyone. Please, no more answers like this with the best intention. Who's next to the word? Is it a question or isn't it a question? I'm just asking you not to use the pay phone. Is it written? Here you go. I'm asking for a little patience. He speaks best of himself through questions. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2341	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I am, indeed, and if I am used to this kind of rhetoric by Mr. Tokić only today, however, I must admit, surprised that Mr. Tokić can also cross his own borders of taste and intolerance.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2342	I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2343	I admit that I went out here for a pay phone to abuse a pay phone, because I have to tell Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2344	Please don't use the pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2345	The one he's talking about today, we wouldn't sit here in Parliament and discuss these things.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2346	Please don't, I'm taking away my word. Any more questions? There isn't. I beg you, most kindly, please, therefore, Minister Domazet, since the delegates have sought in writing, that we do not open. Here you go. Business intervention. You're letting us get out of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2347	Chairman, as a member of the College, I really won't let a circus be made here at this point in the agenda. I was looking in writing. The minister can't ask himself questions. He can protest too, which is basically the only minister here on oral request only to come out and set his word. If you're not going to put it in context, I'm going to request a break to settle this situation. And as for historical past and evaluations, they will appreciate Mr. Džaferović and today appreciate people through what he has in public change and what he has in common as a result of the rule of one, the other and the third. I would ask you, as other delegates, not to abuse this pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2348	I would ask that we conclude this item on the agenda. No more delegate questions. 19 We move to the second item of the agenda. Ad.2. The adoption of the minutes from the 17th session of the House of Peoples I am opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? He's not answering. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who's on record like this? - 14 Does anyone mind? Abstained? There is no So, unanimously, given that Mr. Šimić is justifiably absent for a short time. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. Ad.3. The appointment of delegates for the members of the Joint Commission of both homes to reach an agreement on the same text: (a) The Law on Administrative Procedure (b) of the Law on Administrative Disputes The Law on Administrative Procedure was adopted in a different text. The Joint Commission, of course, should agree on the rules of procedure. At his last session, the College proposed members of the joint commission and extended Mr Dragutin Rodić, Šefik Džaferović and Ivo Živković to the members of the Commission. Any other suggestions? There isn't. I suggest we make a point. Who's in favour of this kind of proposal from the College? Who's in, pick up some charts? Unanimity. b) The Law on Administrative Disputes was also adopted in a different text and task of the Joint Commission, too, to try to reach agreement. For the members of the Commission, the College proposed Mr Halid Genjac, Jerk Ivanković and Momčilo Novakovać at the same session. Any other suggestions? There isn't. I suggest we make a point. Who's in favour of this kind of proposal from the College? Unanimity. Ad.4. The Commission's report to the College on the alignment of amendments to the management law In this regard, I would like to inform you that we had a college union within the business prescribed deadline and that we have achieved a compromise way that two amendments by Mr Novaković have been adopted and that the other 5 or 7 have been rejected. In that sense, the College has reached agreement, and today we declare ourselves to the law. All that's left is a vote on the law. 20 Who is it for this law in the way the College has declared it, therefore, with the adoption of two amendments? - 11 Who's against it? Who's being held back? 3 I find that the law has a majority and has an entity majority. Therefore, the Law has been adopted and, within the prescribed time limit under the Rules of Procedure, it should be forwarded to the House of Representatives for a further statement. We're moving to agenda five. This fifth point has been moved n 17 places and the fifth becomes the present sixth. Ad.5. Declaration by the House of Nations on the consideration under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act – legislator Jerko Ivanković dakle, I am warning only that today we are having a debate on the procedure and not on the essence of the law. Today we declare it only about the procedure and not to fall into the trap of not going into broad debates, it will be the subject when the law is the point of the agenda. I'm opening a debate. Is there any reason for the promoter to give an explanation? Here you go. Mr. Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2349	Dear Chairman, fellow envoys, distinguished guests, I will not take much time to work as quickly and as high as possible. I have submitted an amendment and an amendment to the law, for the reason that the Customs Tariff Act in the Conformity Commission between the two homes has not been adopted, and in the existing law there is a lack of where two tariff numbers should be added. Under the law, you have an argument that clearly shows that BiH's interest is the interest of domestic producers in BiH, that the law should be adopted as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2350	I thank Mr Ivanković. Is there anyone else to report for the hearing? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We plead. Who is it that this law enters the procedure under Article 99? The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? - 12 Who's against it? - There are no abstentions. I find that we have made a positive statement regarding Article 99's procedure. The Rules of Procedure and we're going to the next item of the agenda. Ad.6. Declaration of the House of Nations consideration under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on the Central Bank of BiH – Proposer of the Presidency, with a warning again, only to discuss the procedure only with a note that we had one failed attempt to reach this law I am opening the debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. 21 So now we declare ourselves who is to be discussed under article 99 against this law? - 14 Unanimous. Ad.7. Declaration by the People's House on the consideration under Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Law on the Insurance of Deposits of BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers I open the debate. Who's answering for a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2351	I give my word to the President of the Honorable Envoy Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2352	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed delegates, distinguished guests, my TV is and, of course, I will declare that this law should be taken into a shortened procedure under Article 99. It is an important legislative project, which is of interest both to BiH and entities. As far as I know, there are no important misunderstandings in these relations regarding this law, and in that sense I call for us to plead and support Article 99's procedure. Thank you very much. Are there any other delegates reporting for debate? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Here you go, Mr. Turjačanin.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2353	Dear Chairman, fellow delegates, esteemed guests, I am surprised by the little contradiction of the performance of the College, who said that some points of the agenda from today's session would be removed and that there are no proposings that would explain the urgency of the procedure of passing such legal ones, i.e. investing in such a legislative project in parliamentary procedure. I don't think so, we are in the position of the Council of Ministers at Parliament's meetings, even moved the terms of holding parliamentary sessions of the House of Peoples of BiH, and I see that Monday is not the appropriate day to host the representatives of the Council of Ministers, so I ask the College to intervene in this regard.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2354	I thank Mr. Turjačanin. Is there anyone else to answer for? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We're going over the plea. Who is it that the House declares that this law will be discussed under the shortened procedure of Article 99. - The couch? - Yeah. - 13 for it. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? - 1 abstention. I find that we have adopted the procedure under Article 99. We come to the 8th point of the agenda, ladies and gentlemen, given the protocol procedures related to the performance of his Excellency, Mr. Pedi Eždaun's High Representative, to the plenary session of both homes, I suggest, given that it is a law on 22 which we will be conducting a break debate fifteen minutes earlier. So, I'm taking a break by 3:30. At half past three, we'll continue the session. I ask all delegates to take this break if there are any misunderstandings that until the session resumes try to overcome them. So, break to half three. Let's get on with the session. [[PAUZA]] We took a break on the 8th item of the agenda. Ad.8. The law and the Agency for Information Protection in BiH – Proposer of the BiH Presidency - is in the second reading You have received the draft law with the amendments set out on the Constitutional and First Commission. Well, first of all, we're having a breakdown. I'm opening a rush, about the law in the second reading. Who's answering for a word? Another deputy, Mr. Tokić, and Mr. Ibrahim Spahić, reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2355	This is... at the beginning of the session. I would like to say here at the House that the instructions of the chairman and members of the Constitutional and Legal Committee in the order of the Serbian people have been prevented from holding the Constitutional and Legal Commission in order to declare the amendments that are in line with the Poslvonik in the same procedure as the amendments Mr Novaković spoke about. The content of the amendment shall not be entered. I am only insisting here on consistently respecting the Rules of Procedure, because I know how much even in detail a derogation from the Rules of Procedure can lead to anarchy in the work of this tall home. In that context, I would like to ask the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission to explain why there has not been a meeting of the Constitutional and First Commission, so much before... The Constitutional and Legal Commission does not need full consent from the College, as neither does respect the Rules of Procedure need anyone's consent but it is the obligation of all MPs and delegates. So, I consider the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I would ask and request that the session be terminated in order to carry out consultations so as not to engage in anything contrary to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2356	I thank Mr. Tokić. The river has Mr. Ibro Spahić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2357	I would just like to explain that before the afternoon work, I said that I had requested a meeting, the opinion of the ustvno-pravan Court last week, following the arrival of Mr Tokić's amendment and that the Commission's meeting could not be held at that time. According to the secretary, the home of Mr. Jasminka, Mr. Jadrank Tomić and the acting secretary of the Constitutional First Commission... where there was no security quorum to maintain this session. So the session couldn't have just for those reasons, as far as I'm concerned, failed. 23 As regards today's meeting, I supported Mr. Tokić's position to hold a session at the break and the session can always be held, as Mr. Tokic intervened during the work of Parliament itself, but I would like to inform you that I spoke with the chairman of the House of the Peoples, Mr. Špirić, and that I was told there is no agreement in the College for the maintenance of the session. Also, I would like to say that this is not about our violation, so the chairman and members of any member of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, but about one procedure, which is quite natural. If we are to schedule a session where there is no Mr Špirić and Mr Rodić, since it has been explicitly stated that they do not consider this session possible and that its maintenance is meaningful, and I consider it indeed a problem that I was already talking about. I can only determine that condition. However, if there is anything contrary to what I have said, then I accept any kind of responsibility. And since I don't think anything can be contrary, because it is literally my consultation that I am obliged to hold before the beginning of the session with my colleagues, I could possibly hold a meeting with Mr. Džaferović, Mr. Divković and Mr. Sušac and with myself but it doesn't produce any results. According to the Rules of Procedure, this does not create conditions for the rd of the Constitutional-First Commissions. Such a situation, no matter what it is not identical, was absolutely the same in relation to the budget, and the situation at the moment is also related to this agency. As far as your approach as the Kolegijuma is concerned, I personally think it's important that you have consent. One, when you put one item on the agenda, such as the law on the Agency for Information and Protection of BiH – the proposing BiH Presidency. In this case, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that, according to our rules of procedure, this law has ceased to be a law proposed by the BiH Presidency, but is already a law proposed by Parliament itself. That's what the Rules of Procedure says when a certain period goes by. As soon as it adopts some amendments, it is formulated by the commission, it is a proposal from Parliament itself. The terms and conditions of the amendments of Mr Tokić, therefore, are not created according to this procedure and according to this business principle. The conditions were created to directly consider this in the House, with this information and I said that I, normally first, would be sorry that Mr. Tokić came out before me and had before the championship, but I want to say that there is nothing indisputable here. This is exactly how I acted as chairman. I can't make an appointment that's predicated to failure. So we're not people who need to work irrationally, unreasonablely. We agreed that we should act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and I was extremely correct. I think it's correct to hear it now. You can accept that's your thing. It's not a bad idea to take a little break and make a deal with each other once in a while. If you think that there is enough and if you think that conditions can be obtained for the Commission to be held in such business frameworks as both the President of the Commission and all the members present here and present will hold that session without any problems. They've known about the amendments for ten days, if not more. So it's not news. These are not amendments that have arrived now and at any moment you can agree and reach that consensus. If he's not here, then you must say as a College to the Rules of Procedure what you propose as a solution. The statement on this law along with the amendments given by Mr. Tokić at the moment, or at the session itself, I apologize earlier, according to the same rule as he did well, is about Špirićev and Novakovic's amendments, or that you have a better idea. I only have one attitude. If we can ensure the presence of members of the Commission, we certainly hold a commission. If we can't, we can't do a process here that just isn't possible. I don't want to, we're, I don't want to get my colleagues in trouble in that 24th look, and I think there's a way out of this, if you as a College find one correct solution that can be set up at this point in the agenda. As far as I'm concerned, what you suggest is a matter of your consensus. Because we're not a commission above home or college. We are working as a working team to which important assurances the quality of your consensus, and in the end, this commission is specific because of that, which in it, regardless of what some have often said is that there are voting over. There isn't. It requires a huge political will for everyone to agree to face some procedures and relationships, with all the conventions of this system that we live in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2358	I thank Mr Spahić. Mr. Sušac came forward for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2359	Mr. President, fellow envoys, honored guests. It's good that we speak privately outside this hall and it's good that Mr. Ibro and Mr. Špirić have spoken. I think we should take a break and schedule a constitutional-legal commission and see if any of the... delegates have come. So it can't be based on that private conversation, it's for me a private conversation. If it isn't scheduled for two presidents, because it remains in the conclusion that the commission will be and therefore I suggest, if the break is ten minutes, ten minutes and the commission is scheduled to see who came who didn't. That's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2360	Wrong quote. Dear Chairman, sir, I think the first Vice-President of the Commission, I would just like to say that I, as President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, have not held any private talks with any member of the Commission who came here on Mondays and Fridays on a regular basis. I get a chance to meet them a lot. There are no private talks with Mr Rodić, who is your colleague, the second vice-president and Mr Špirić, who is also the chairman of this committee. if you think that I, as president, am leading with a member, with my colleague who is the second vice-president and chair of the Kolegijum of Private Talks, and I am publicly telling you that I am having official talks and that this was an official conversation and that if you force me to seek a future written statement, that's another thing. And as for the appointment of the session, there is no problem, I underline, I have already said in my statement, if the College finds a way to find a solution to how to normally approach this job, we are automatically ready to hold that session and I am to schedule it, to please you as my colleague and Sargia in the Commission and to allow it to be, in order to say transparently, but I very much respect the position I have received from my colleagues, because they have pleaded not to participate in the work of the Commission. There's no need. If that's not true, they have a chance here to say it's not true. I asked Mr. Špirić, he's here himself. I asked if you needed and in writing Mr Špirić to give, Mr Špirić correctly said, I, however, speak as chairman, speak with you as chairman of the Commission, you do not need any written paper. If you want us to formalize the matter. I really suggest we take that break. I formally schedule a session, and there's no problem. We'll see what the result will be and 25 don't let us have sex between the two of us. You have my full favor. A responsible attitude, just as your responsible attitude is mine. I thought we should talk to those who put the problem, and with you who didn't put the problem, I don't know what I was supposed to talk about. I guess you wouldn't make it up in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2361	Mr. Niko Sušac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2362	Mr. SpahimaSpahić let's put the ball on the ground. Here it remains that the Commission should be scheduled. You didn't schedule a commission and you held private talks with Mr. Špirić. On the basis of which article you spoke to him, if it's official conversations. The commission was to be scheduled to see who came on board and who didn't. So these are absolutely private conversations. I mean, let's put the ball on the ground, if you can take a break first and move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2363	Mr. Špirić has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2364	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed delegates, distinguished guests, I don't think we should particularly encourage how long this law has been in the process. I thought and was happy and made my contribution that today we will have a law in the second reading of the statement and that the public of BiH will be pleased with one adopted law. Something strange has happened lately, not that, of course, it's not even the task of me disassembling here. But what the public doesn't want to say, and that's what I am, of course, saying now that the President of the Constitutional-First Commission has not said that the Constitutional-First Commission has sat down and discussed the amendments that have been made to this law. It was a session dedicated to the Constitutional First Commission to this law. The amendments happened to arrive later, Mr. Tokić. I don't argue that these amendments dom is raving today and making a statement. So I never slowed it down or anyone slowed it down and that's what can lead to the law today. Returning again today to the Constitutional and Legal Commission and these amendments is not good, and if there is a mood, that too should be done only to end the adoption of the law. But I beg you forget to say that it was a constitutional-legal commission. That the Constitutional and Legal Commission is in the presence of international representatives, who have made a huge contribution. I must tell you, I've had countless meetings with UN representatives. Mr. Gravel is here. We did everything we could to get to the law. I want to contribute to the law today. Those who have remembered five days to define amendments to talk to Ibro so that it would be good to be accepted by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, thus becoming an integral part of the law, that part is outside of me. I can't help it, and that's why I said there's no need today. I appreciate there isn't. If the other two members of the College appreciate that there is, therefore, no agreement, we have no consensus. The Rules of Procedure are clear on that, too. So, I can decide and notify Dom. But tell you if it's okay or not, and maybe it's best if we take a break for 15 minutes, 26 let's see how we get out with the result of passing the law. In that first one, I'll make my contribution. There will be no other way of my contribution. You have, at least you know that these amendments were the subject of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, because we have reached an agreement that we will vote in favour of the law. Is someone supposed to get us back to square one? Oh, Ibro the first one I don't know about some things. Come on, please, let's be serious. Not that someone was able to convince him today that it would be wise for it to be so that the Constitutional and Legal Commission could sit ten times over one law. So, I propose and the Commission can help in the break I'm not against the break. I'm not against Mr. Tokić's amendments directly to the House of Peoples talking about adopting them, refusing what the result is and finishing the job. Searching for a break for the Constitutional and Legal Commission is looking for a way to delay the procedure for the adoption of the law. Please don't blame the delegates. Don't blame me, Nikola Špirić. I'm ready to vote for this job. If there's an amendment, I'm not ready to vote for the law. You know how many times you've brought home and said if there's an amendment, we won't. I'm ready today, gentlemen, to vote for the law. And if anyone wants to make a show of procedural how to God Nikola Špirić won't vote for the law in great error. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2365	It's the wrong quote, isn't it? Ibro Spahić, you'll take a break later. Wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2366	Mr Špirić, as chairman, I am pleased that you have given me the opportunity to say something about a fact that you have mentioned very nicely, which is that we have had this situation in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, that in this situation so as not to fail the law as you said and that it would not go away, that there would be no more harm than one job in which a lot of efforts have been made both in the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the UN Representation and in the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the possibility of being extended so-called. The amendment phase, I'm undermining for everything of course. And you're absolutely right that there was a session of this committee constitutional-law. It is nothing simple because, Mr Špirić, there would be no such proposal on today's agenda if we hadn't had a debate on the Commission. And this proposal for a law on the Agency for Information and Protection of BiH comes from the Commission. There's nothing to argue about. And on that committee, we have reached agreement on this bill. It also has nothing to dispute. And I don't see the reason that, I tried to explain it to Mr. Sušec, and I'm trying to make it clear to you, what is undeniable has no reason to point out. There would not have been this law if all phases of the Constitutional and Legal Commission had not passed, including what you said was a compromise to find an extended business principle is whether it could extend the phase of the amendment whether the amendment and the proposed amendments to the law. 27 So these are indisputable facts. I guess we're going into debate from them. When you have proposed the agenda, it is understood that there is a document and a law proposed by the Commission which includes the amendments that were long ago, such as my amendments, some other colleagues and your amendments and Mr Novaković. It's undeniable stuff. The subject of today's debate is not indisputable. No one here has disputed the indisputable fact about it. This isn't even about how we need to get out of this situation. This is about the fact that right now, given the facts that I have put out officially, and not privately as Mr. Sušac says, I want to defend officially, not privately. I do not want my talks with fellow Members who are also officials in this House to be about the first, second or first and second and the chairman of the kolegijum or the first and second vice-presidents, I am disturbing some order. I suppose it is perfectly normal for you to respect the attitude of a colleague to ask him earlier, so that he will behave in this regard in order to create conditions at all for a meeting and work. But if you think it will cure this child's disease as it would say, once upon a time it was called left-wing, but this child's disease of wasting time that we successfully demonstrate to ourselves I really suggest we focus on the subject of the dispute, and here there is obviously a slow interpretation of both the Rules of Procedure and the approach to this second-reading phase of this law, we will do no harm if we take this break for 15 or 30 minutes. And I am ready, underlining once again as President of the Commission to schedule a meeting immediately if it will improve that approach. But you can't get in a position to say directly that you think you're having an out-of-the-way meeting of the Commission and thus let it know that there isn't a meeting, and you're not going to say it directly, what was our direct conversation and really correct. I'm correct seems to have interpreted myself from letter to letter our dialogue. I just wanted to keep some correct relations, so I put out the way these consultations are being held with you and Mr Rodić. In no way is it prejudged that it may have been Mr Ivo or Mr Džaferović. It's totally relevant at this point. It is about creating conditions for a session to be held and to respect some of the horrors in Parliament. I ask you to do as chairman of the effort by proposing to us, as you yourself, very well and very constructively. You've made a huge effort to get to this law. I know how many whites there were with the amendments we were building in the first phase, in phase two, up to these amendments of yours. If this is going to be a law that should in some way provide guarantees for fighting for the protection of BiH institutions and a person to protect what is contained in this law, if it will be the greatest value for Parliament to establish control, it is not good as you would say nicely in the atmosphere of this cut things. Please take a break and get out of this in one of the most constructive ways, approach the work that is serious.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2367	Time out for 15 minutes. [[pause]] We had a 15-minute break. Unfortunately, the break did not result in some unique view of how to overcome the situation. I propose that we hold a debate in the second reading and amendments, therefore, Mr Tokić and that we approach after the final debate on the legislation and amendments. Who's calling for a hearing? Mr. Tokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2368	Well, I just wanted to underline what I had already said, and it was obviously an attempt to introduce practice that when representatives of the Serb people from Republika Srpska disagree with some text that they express it in a way that prevents the maintenance of the Commission. Uzged would just repeat the drasticity of whether the incorrect, incorrect allegations of Špirić who said that the amendments were delivered when someone remembered whether he was 5 days before the session. On the contrary, the amendments were delivered 14 days before this session and all the time there were attempts to organise a session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and it was prevented as in this break as it was prevented and what Mr Špirić at the College directly said that he would not allow the Commission to be maintained. I therefore ask that this debate be initiated on the attempts by the Chair of the Constitutional and Legal Commission to hold a meeting and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, take the same steps with the amendments tabled by Novaković and Špirić within the same deadline and on my amendments, that this was prevented by, because of the absence of representatives from the order of the Serbian people, that this, in particular, should be stated in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in the minutes as a special statement, since it is obvious, showing all these great times that it is intended to prevent the Commission from being held and the Commission’s statement on these amendments. At the same time, I would point out here that, of course, I did not want to prejudge the Commission's decision or the House's decision on my amendments and that, in principle, my efforts were to maintain the full idignity and respect of the Rules of Procedure, which in this case was prevented for the reasons already mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2369	I thank the second deputy. Who's picking up the word? Mr. Spahić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2370	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that, for the sake of accuracy of the quote, since it is a stenogram that I have made the same effort for the formal reasons of the legal and during this break and I can tell you that since we are not a great quorum, there are six of us, after the official notification of all six members, including me at the meeting, responded except for me 29 Mr. Džaferović. Mr Rodić, Mr Sušac, Mr Živković and Mr Špirić have not responded in connection with this meeting. Regarding the allegations that this amendment came on time, it confirms the office, better than any information they would give here and we don't have what to discuss. What should be said in relation to this law that has been adopted on the agenda, I want to underline once again that the law on the Information and Protection Agency for Bosnia and Herzegovina is a law which is a parliamentary law. It is true that our highest state body, the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, has made an initial proposal, and it is true that it is in consultation on this law, as I once again said.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2371	I would like to ask Mr Spahić, to report on the Commission's position, if he reports for a debate on this law, he will be given the right to
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2372	I just wanted to make a point, so I called about the attitude. My opinion, therefore, is that no conditions have been created in equal, equal terms for all MPs who have come forward with the amendments' proposals within the time limit for the amendment debate, and for these reasons the Commission has not held a meeting that, having that in mind, I need that fact that we are finding out how, as far as I am concerned, I have stated at this point. Not as someone would like to interpret me, officially or privately, as far as I'm concerned. And as for the debate at this home in the second reading, therefore on the law on the information and protection agency of BiH itself, the fact that Mr Špirić has now said as chairman that he is proposing to conduct a debate on the law, including amendments by Mr Tokić only speaks at first sight about the compromise. He's talking about one approach that's logical, we've come to another reading. I underline once again what I said at the beginning of noon and afternoon, including Mr. Tokić, and therefore no one outside this round of promoters in the second round Mr. Novaković, Mr. Špirić, Mr. Tokić did not question the proposal we made as a commission for last session of Parliament when this law was on the agenda. Niko. The law offered by the Commission, I underline once again and there will be no other draft law or elsewhere. This is the Commission's proposal. I would like the debate to be indisputable only to my point of view which is quite clear that it is not good to make procedural precedents unless, unless we are all ready, regardless of who it is that we respect the right of everyone to come out with their views in the context of this extended amendment debate. It is not good for us as Parliament, and this is not about who came to the meeting of the Commission, only who is not, etc. It's just that if we opened the debate, we gave 15 days to all the delegates and that it was created to say the situation that is now the second precedent. If we as a Dom who respects our rules of procedure tied to say tail cat, so try to do something that's just not natural, we could go 30 over this fact simply by saying that we found a compromise proposal. But the compromise proposal covers indirect recognition, however, to say the wrong approach in respect of the procedure. No matter who it's about, about me, about Sušac or Rodić. I'm calling because I know he won't react, he won't ask for a replica of this intervention, and I wouldn't want to react to myself. So it's not right. It is simply not good for us because the next time we make a precedent decision, and we do not respect every equal right of MPs or delegates, then we will violate our own foundations on which such homes take place. Once made precedent becomes the precedent that is the rule. That means one behavior is inauguration. So your conclusion is correct, Mr. Špirić, if, of course, I can't make any more choices than just to get into the record of what I said, and I can't obviously because of the relationships that are business, because that one closed circle, then it's clear that we're going to open that debate. We can now engage, I could make a business quote of 100 things, but I don't have the strength to stop the debate and that's why I would like to propose – you have made a proposal to resolve the matter. I said I couldn't do it before we moved on to any debate, and as an individual, I couldn't draw attention to this fact. Nothing else. You're supposed to be keeping an eye on this. I am in your position, and I am not for various reasons, I must tell you that it would be best to schedule at this time, if it is possible once again for the respect of the game and the rules of play in the House, that the clubs of the delegates of the Hrvat, Srbin and Bošnjak have a brief consultation, because it is a total violation of an equal right of delegates. It's the only way out that's serious. And when they say they're behind this, we can approach whatever you suggest.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2373	I beg your word, Sušac, Divković. Please, since we've been looking for a break and we've taken advantage of it, I have to take over to run the House. So we just have to get out of the situation that we have an active relationship with what's the agenda point, not what anyone wants or wants. Mr. Sušac, Mr. Divković, Mr. Džaferović, I apologize to the Turjačanin.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2374	Mr. President, fellow envoys, esteemed guests, I must, I'm aware it's a pre-election campaign, so maybe let someone move away from the word that doesn't stand. Right after the end, so after the break came, we met here, Mr Rodić, Džaferović and Spahić, and we talked about this situation and Mr Džaferović quite, what he was commenting on, I agreed. Is if you once made a precedent, so the Constitutional and Legal Commission ended up being a job around this law, if you made a precedent, and in order to pass the law once, then it's normal that if the law were to hand over the amendment then you can do it for everyone else. We should stick with that, too. And it's a logical situation. 31 Of course I'm out of here. Mr. Rodić said to go up and up was scheduled for the College and we had a club. We had to agree at the Croatian Club how we would behave as to what is coming before us. So it's not true that we didn't come to the Commission. That was my goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2375	Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2376	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I have realized that at this point we are discussing, in the second reading of the law, which should mean in accordance with Article 91, that we are discussing amendments to the law proposed by Mr. Tokić which are in normal procedure. That's right. If so, I would really go about discussing some amendments, or would the motionor actually ask for more clarification because of our later statement, or my personal vote, etc. to see if I got it right or not. Amendment VI reads the new Article 27, which reads - the entry into force of this law, ceases to apply the provisions of the law on AIDS, the Official Journal of the Republic of BiH and that 17/96, as well as the Law on the Internal Affairs of the Croatian Republic of Herceg Bosnia, National Journal No 15/94. In fact, if my information is correct, I think that the Federal Parliament has practically put aside its law, it would say the provisions of the AIDS Act and what it's called SSNS, as this other intelligence service is called. And now I'm wondering if this law thinks that this service that we're forming on a state level is also substituting these two former services. If that's the question then, what about the service of the Republika Srpska? If that's not the case, then it's already been abolished by federal law, etc. I really don't understand the situation. So this is more like it. I said a question to clarify that you could define yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2377	I thank Mr. Divković. Mr. Džaferović tells them.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2378	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I will certainly report to you and discuss the essence of these amendments that have been proposed. I want to say now at this stage of the debate, because several times my name was mentioned by other people who went out for this pay phone to try to recapture and say what really happened in the procedure so far and where is the possible way out. I'm not gonna take up much of your time, so I'm gonna be taxing things. At last session of the House, we adopted the law in our first reading, with the conclusion of the chairman of gospodin Špirić's dom that the College will open the possibility of an additional amendment phase. That's the first fact. Atypical, but according to the Rules of Procedure, it's possible. We voted in favour of the law in the first reading and passed the law in the first reading. Afterwards, two 32 delegates of this house, Mr Špirić and Novaković, submitted three amendments to the subject of observation and representatives of the international community who have very seriously and responsibly engaged in the adoption of this very important law and its creation. And that's when one thing happened that's atypical again, but that's possible by the Rules of Procedure. A session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission has been scheduled for the second time and the Constitutional and Legal Commission has given a green light to these three amendments, after representatives of the international community have therefore given assurances and guarantees that this is indeed on course and on the basis of what we want and can achieve at this time with this law. At the same time, pay attention to the College has not given the possibility of an amendment phase only once or for additional amendments to one or two MPs. The same conclusion gave the opportunity to all MPs and indeed this happened, the amendments Mr Špirić and Novaković submitted 7.5. as far as I can see from these papers, and Mr Tokić submitted 13.5. So Mr. Tokić's amendment, although I have the least reason to defend and justify Mr. Tokić's views, but I am a man who adheres to the law and to the Rules of Procedure and speak the way it is and Mr. Tokic's amendments are, of course, submitted within the business deadline. And if an exception has been made and one atypical situation has been resolved in such a way that the Constitutional and Legal Commission has considered the amendments of the two MPs, it would be perfectly appropriate and correct to apply this practice to Mr Tokić's amendments as well. It didn't happen until today, and today another thing happened. A formal commission was scheduled 10-15 minutes ago on this break. And it could be the Commission's position on the amendment, watch out for that session of the Commission, I don't know who came, it was the President of the Commission, I know for myself that I came to that session of the Commission and I was ready, let's not be angry with the rest of you not to count whether anyone else was or wasn't. Mr Spahić therefore knows better, but I simply know this that the Commission had no working conditions and this may be the Commission's report on the occasion of the amendments, but with some taste of bitterness it must be realized that (two groups) the amendments had different treatment in the parliamentary procedure and it must also be seen as a fact. Since this law is very important and since we all care that Bosnia and Herzegovina gets this bill out as soon as possible is next. I therefore, if there is still a possibility with representatives of the Constitutional Commission who have not attended the Commission's session to come to the Commission to tell their court. We don't know how the Commission will decide. That would be the correct thing to do. And if not, then we must go further into the debate and then view these amendments as amendments which will be subject to a plea here in Parliament, and then declare ourselves after that on the very text of the law. As far as Mr. Tokić's amendments are concerned, I will, of course, go out for the pay phone and give my consideration to all the amendments when we discuss the essence. I considered this some sort of procedural debate on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2379	I thank Mr. Džaferović. Mr. Turjačanin. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2380	The Honorable Chairman, fellow delegates, I would like to perhaps clarify a little Secretariat about seeing us coming out of something called a regular procedure and not to say free interpretations concerning part of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. I see a piece at the College, and then they call the club presidents. It seems that here there is every right not to say in my own way to interpret the Rules of Procedure and to bring certain solutions that are bypass solutions to getting out of situations where we find ourselves at these sessions occasionally. Does the extended amendment phase in this way as you present it to me here mean that even during today's session I can make amendments to the proposed text of the law? I simply have the following dates ahead of me, I have the date of the proposal for a law on the Information and Protection Agency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was adopted in Protocol 16.5.2002, I have only today received amendments from Mr Tokić which were adopted in Protocol 13.5 this year and it is not possible that I could not receive one in this period, that I received the final text of the law, the draft laws with the incorporated amendments of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and 3 days was quite enough time if they were accepted in the protocol that the Constitutional and Legal Commission consults, draws up etc. and to be explained to me by the secretary whether this kind of work allows, which I would be extremely pleased to have the amendment to act at Parliament's sittings, because unfortunately the great travels of our delegations could at least teach us in Strasbourg that the right of amendment is at the final and plenary session of the Council of Europe Parliament, regardless of all the strong views of committees, subcommittees and committees, etc. etc. That's how much thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2381	Thank you. Is there any further discussion? If there is no, please, I want the debate, so I am concluding the debate on this first part, which is inseparable from the second, and since, of course, we must bring this to an end, I suggest that today we discuss the law and the amendments, and today we bring this law to an end in a way that we can plead to the law. But here's who's calling for a debate on laws and amendments? Mr. Tokić. So please.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2382	I think we've absorbed this first part and it's clear to everyone what it's about, and I'd only thank the distinguished Turjačanin fellow who's well noticed that he faxed the amendment to the 13th and the 16th, so he's just talking about himself. However, given that this story is quite clear, recognizable to me in my long parliamentary life in these benches, I would focus on the explanation of amendments which, unfortunately, could not have been the subject of the Commission's consideration. My motivation to submit these amendments was to obtain as high-quality text as possible regarding this law. The first amendment therefore implies strengthening the powers of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and would in particular highlight that in all countries of parliamentary 34 democracies, all standards, including those standards that we have as binding standards and the Council of Europe and international institutions, Parliament has control over such or similar agencies. I think Amendment II is quite understandable and clear in accordance with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina defines the Agency's powers in a different way than is stated in the basic text. Amendment III speaks of the need for the Council of Ministers, i.e. the House of Representatives, at least some parliamentary body to play a role in the appointment of top officials of this agency and not to read Amendment IV which is clearly reasoned. I would just like to clarify Amendment VI. What's this about? He was specifically quoted by the esteemed envoy Divković. It is the fact that AIDS services are legally defined by law published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina 17/96. So this legislation is an integral part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's legislation. It is clear to the lawyers, and also to those who are not lawyers, that the entity law cannot repeal the laws or provisions of certain laws which form part of the legal, constitutional and legal system of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in this context this amendment is also listed with the aim of the AID law published in this Official List contains a whole series of provisions which form an integral part of the jurisdiction of this law, which is listed before you today. The second question is the Law on the Internal Affairs of the Croatian Republic of Herceg Bosnia. As far as I'm concerned, and my political position, this law should never have been, nor was it an integral part of the legislation or of Bosnia and Herzegovina, this is about a product that defacto never got its full legitimacy. However, I draw your attention to the provisions of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency's decision when appointing the highest SIS officials who have called for this law as an integral part of the legislation of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, explaining this by means of transitional arrangements and the need to maintain transitional arrangements, in accordance with the Weinkton, or the Dayton Peace Agreement, until the amendments to that law, or act. I deeply disagree with that, with such an explanation, I finally submitted an initiative to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitutional Court for the assessment of constitutionality and these two laws, as well as the OBS law. As for the OBS, Mr Divković, the OBS has never been defined as a service defined by BiH legislation, but was initially defined as a law on the Republic, Republika Srpska and, from that aspect, I have basically wanted this amendment to be installed in order not to have dualism in this area, because simply the non-serious state has two laws that regulate the same area. Or parts of the same area, since this agency does not contain all segments of the former AIDS whether, but contains the part listed in that law. As much as an explanation for the amendments. I firmly believe that the fact that the Constitutional and Legal Commission could not discuss these laws for the reasons that we have all observed here will be the subject of serious debate between you envoys and delegates. Thank you. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2383	Thank you, Mr. Tokić. The word has Mr. Divković behind it, Mr. Ibrahim Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2384	I thank Mr. Tokić. I think he's left on some material, for a reason. In fact, it was quite clear to me at the beginning why the AIDS would be mentioned by the Official Journal of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is clear. However, this very mention of this HiS that was not a state law was not clear to me because it was in some way dualism. I fully support the essence of what was going to be done with this. However, it seems to me to be such a deep legal issue now that who has the right to pass a law that eliminates other laws. And that's the point, so it's a legal dilemma, not at all a political nature, but a purely legal dilemma. That's what it was about. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2385	I thank Mr. Delegate Divković. Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2386	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say first of all that if we're just talking about amendments, we're not talking about the law, are we? I hope that discussion isn't separate. I'm okay. I'm okay. I'm okay. Just about the amendments, and then we'll talk about the law as a whole. Okay. Here's how we can do it. I'd like to say it first.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2387	The debate on the law is over. All that remains is a discussion of the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2388	So that the law is accepted. I wanted to say first of all that the amendments we got from Mr. Špirić in his essence.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2389	From Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2390	Please. Me, the amendments from Mr Špirić and Novaković were first received.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2391	And you became an integral part of the text. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2392	They did. Well, that's all I'm saying. And if we were Mr Špirić and Tokić's amendments, this Novaković, which we received when we came to the Commission on this proposal for a second reading, were fully incorporated and became a proposal for this law. Since Mr. Špirić had asked me to point out that before or afternoon I don't know which part of this debate. So there was no dispute. That's important. Now it's a bill that we'll come forward about later. As far as Mr Tokić's amendments are concerned, he would like to say that, in relation to the law that regulates the position of this agency in Article 2 as the agency is an independent agency of Bosnia and Herzegovina for its work, it corresponds to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, more precisely, according to my conviction, resolved in law because it is the point. Let me explain why it's important. Because the whole spirit of this law on the Agency for Information and Protection of BiH is committed to organising the work of this agency to be under full parliamentary control. Here in the amendment, the number I of Mr. Tokić is added – and to the Council of Ministers. The current member said the agency is obliged to submit a report, of course to the presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers. So in my opinion, the amendment is quite precise in relation to the spirit of this law and you, as you know well and my participation in this whole procedure, was about supporting parliamentary control, full parliamentary control over this work of this agency, and therefore my personal position as a delegate is that I should keep this amendment as it is in law with regard to it being completely accurate. And he is not contrary to this amendment by Mr. Tokić. He only provides that it is Parliament who is the key and legislative body of control over the agency's work. To whom this agency is essentially responsible. I would like to link this to Article 8 which was actually the subject of the most serious debate in the Commission, which is to oversee the legality of the work of this agency. It belongs to an entirely one committee composed of MPs from the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. So it is the spirit of our creation of this law that one parliamentary body from both homes controls the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina's protection agency and information agency. It's an argument why I hope that this approach is understood that we insisted on the law, probably if we had had the opportunity to discuss in the Constitutional and Legal Commission we could make these different points of view and not be burdened by it today. I'd like to say my personal opinion on that now. As far as this Article 2 and the amendment is concerned, I, too, from my point of view, think that it is clearly more acceptable in the spirit of the law to remain in Article 2 as defined in this law today. As far as Amendment 2 is concerned, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is a matter of adding a new chapter to Article 3 - Part Three of the work and Article 4 which should explain, which it explains in the amendment of Mr Tokić, a number of different areas in which it operates, the agency is working. In Article 3 of this law, there is only one fact that the Sarajevo headquarters is defined and that the agency plays regional roles in Mostar and Banja Luka. You don't get into the work of this agency at all. I think if today we consider it a good thing that we are discussing the detour right now I have to say that this really is about a completely new member, here says the new article 4 that reads as Mr. Tokić suggested. The questions of the detours of this agency have been resolved by other members in the current text of the law. Therefore, it should be possible to see how those members, not disrupting Article 3 or 4 which are not related to the work of the Agency, are directly related to the question of the Director and the question of the Agency’s seats. Of course, it's open to debate and I don't want to reconsider. I normally think it is good to give as precise as possible the obligations of this institution in order to enable it to function fully. So in principle, I think that we can be open to debate with these amendments, but of course if the motionary would consider during the session that it focuses on someone else's place or on some other members and that it kind of connects to this structure of the law as it exists. Because lawyers know it well and it must in some way be followed by the process (in or in) which is at issue. Here we have three departments, a criminal information department and protection of very important persons and a department for the protection of diplomatic consular offices and institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in which different activities of this agency are classified. But, of course, it is the subject of debate and would not dispute anything from the nature and character of this amendment which has its own internal logic in relation to what the proposing sees in the work of this organisation, or agency. As regards the member, Amendment III in Article 4(3) and (4), which proposes to amend
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2393	I would pray, I apologize to Mr Spahić only to take care of the time of business
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2394	Of course, I'm just making a statement about the amendment very precise, because I'm obliged to say it. It's simple, I don't think we're having an abstract discussion. When it comes to the appointment of the Director and Deputy Director, the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Bureau, etc. and confirms the House of Representatives, here he would like to say so in Article 4(3) and (4) it is proposed to change, pay attention to us in this bill that the agency will have a management consisting of directors and two deputy and directors and deputy directors appointed the BiH Presidency on a proposal...after agreement with the entity governments. The terms of office of the Director shall also be six years with the possibility of carrying out the mandate for the next two years at the recommendation of the Council of Ministers, which shall be confirmed by the Presidency. You see, the nature of this bill is that this agency has one mandate that will not be politically subordinated to one parliament, one government, conditioned to a democratic transition between these two times, that is four years. I personally stand at the point of view that it is good that this agency has both directors and deputies for 6 years and that they have the right to extend for two years, which includes two mandates in total, but this means that there must be some exceptional results and must be top-notch individuals who will be taking the exam before the public and before parliament then in an adequate way be able to do the job 38. And in that sense, it is my view that it should remain that the term of office of director and deputy should be four years. As for the proposal regarding deputies and directors when they are proposed by the Presidency, and named by the Council of Ministers, I think there is a pretty big confusion. This is about one very basic thing. Directors and Deputy Directors should, in my opinion, finally appoint the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina while it has the authority for internal and external policy, because under the Constitution, the Presidency has the authority to internal and external policy, and I do not think it is good to confirm it only by the House of Representatives of Parliament for the simple reason that the control of the work of this institution will be established by both houses by the Joint Committee and representatives of the House of Peoples and MPs from the House of Representatives and there is no logic that one home confirms the appointment without another home if this is the case. I think if the proposer wanted this confirmation to be related to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, I would consider it a very acceptable amendment, but if he were to remain in the position that it is only a Phast House, then I don't think it is an amendment that makes something important changes and quality a good position in relation to the nature of the law which says that the parliamentary oversight is being carried out by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which is two-domestic with two fully equal homes and which are establishing the joint committee for supervision. It doesn't make sense to be just a House of Representatives. And to conclude when it comes to relations with Interpol and other activities. I think we're coming into a position that's delicate you know about us. It's not about me wanting to derail what Mr. Divković said right now. Mr. Divković intelligently noticed one thing about how he usually knows how to do it when it comes to form and content. If today's debate and final decision on this law is made, but in the previous procedure, it is determined and made logical link between the AID law that I remain only in that law, since this is the law adopted by the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Assembly, Parliament, etc. In line with Dayton, there is a provision that no law can be abolished at all, there is Tokić right, until another law is passed and until the different area is settled. I must say, there is no dilemma at all whether the Federal Parliament or the Republika Srpska Parliament can enforce any state law. So he can't. Neither this institution nor any other institution. He can't, because it's not normal. The other thing is, everything in our system can go through, but it can't. This meant giving authority to a state or taking over powers without any legal procedure in an administrative unit such as the Federation. I apologize for the appointment, if it bothers anyone, but it was convenient for me to use it, and I think it's the essence of the whole story. Whether we're building better texts today or not, I just wanted to make a contribution in so much that I would like to remind you of the facts that are formal and that you know well. That's probably why Ivo Divković only formally set it up, because he knows it's impossible, too. And as for the fact that it is introduced into this law and that this law is treated as a substitute for the functions and services of either this AIDS or someone else's is whether the system Mr. Divković spoke of, reminded of SIS or SNS or what they call it, all the devil would know it, I don't think it's any subject of our conversation in this bill yet. 39 If anyone means anything, and not transparently, it's a different matter. I can't talk about it because it's not the subject of our debate. After all, it is my belief that if Mr. Tokić accepted some of these suggestions, of course, mine, and perhaps some other colleagues, that we might create conditions for a number of amendments to be supported and that if from, they would simply enter into the essence and logic of improving the text of this law. In other words, I would like to say that we have made a great effort and that this law is quite consistent with my population as the President of the Commission and I am the closest I would stop at the vote and of course will stand behind what we have offered as the Commission, but in order to enable the same procedure, the same approach, the same correct treatment of any amendment given by any of our colleagues, I would only say my own judgment on these amendments and, of course, invited my colleague Tokić if he felt it was necessary to obtain some other MPs for some of these amendments to make certain adjustments, to consider whether it was possible, if not then, of course, that the original text is always in some way a guideline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2395	I thank Mr Spahić. Mr. Džaferović answered for the word,
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2396	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I will, I have a lot to feel the need to say when this law is at stake I will try to do it anyway in a time that is much shorter than my distinguished colleague Ibrahim Spahić had. So I do repeat myself to a very important law for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. My vision and my view, therefore, of the services involved in these information and protection matters, so to the intelligence service. She is, of course, very different from what we have in the text of the law here. I think that the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina should have one intelligence service and that security services should no longer be notified in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina but the state service. But reality is what it is. So the other day in the Federal Parliament, we passed a law on the Federation Intelligence Service. Republika Srpska probably has, I don't know what's there, probably has its own intelligence service. And it is obvious that at this stage of the development of the legal order and the state order of Bosnia and Herzegovina there is a commitment that there is some sort of division of jurisdiction between the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and entities when intelligence is a security aspect and intelligence when they are Wednesday. But I see it as just about one step towards what I was talking about at the beginning. I am convinced that one day we coldheads in this Parliament will, without any dispute between ourselves, come to the conclusion that the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina is sufficient to have one intelligence service that will deal with all aspects of this activity and that no other intelligence services will be needed, that is, that is, the service as modern as it is said in the affairs of information and protection. This is an important law, so it is a step forward in relation to the current situation, and that is why I am ready to support this law and I have an obligation since it is a very important law to comment on all the proposals that have come here at this moment in parliamentary procedure, including amendments to Mr. Tokić. 40 About the basic text and about the amendments of Mr Špirić and Novaković, we gave our court to everyone on the Constitutional Commission and the result of that court is a proposal that we have here today, and I do not want to talk about it specifically. There are some amendments to Mr. Tokić that would be acceptable to me, but I fear that because of the consistency and consistent implementation of the text of the law itself, I will not be able to accept these amendments. This amendment I, Mr Tokić, explains the amendment by arguing that a solution from its amendment I improves parliamentary control of the work of this service, but the amendment states that the agency is therefore responsible for the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers, and the basic text in Article 2 states that the agency is an independent institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that it is responsible for its work for the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think stronger parliamentary control is if the agency is responsible only for the Parliamentary Assembly, not the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers. As regards Amendment II, there are some solutions to Amendment II of Mr Tokić which are acceptable to me. Mr. Tokić tried to do something about what the law should have in one place. The law doesn't have it in one place, it's in several places, and it's about the work of this service. So he says this - collecting and processing data in the interest of implementing international criminal laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina, collecting and processing data on criminal acts with an element of abroad, collecting and processing data in criminal acts if Bosnia and Herzegovina's obligation is under international contracts, representing Bosnia and Herzegovina in international police associations, relations with Interpol and other international associations. The issue of the part-round work of this service is not really unified and written in one place, but the law that passed the Constitutional and Legal Commission procedure speaks of the agency having three departments. The Department of Criminal Information, the Department for the Protection of Very Important Persons and the Department for the Protection of Diplomatic Consular Representatives and State Objects, and most of this section, as stated by Mr Tokić in his amendment II, is described in Article 11. So I said mostly, but if we're talking about the detour, then here in Amendment II, we're missing the detour, if we're already describing it regarding the Department of Protection of Very Important Persons and the Department for the Protection of Diplomatic Consular Representatives and State Objects, so I'm afraid that if we describe the detour, then we haven't described it through a special provision unified in a particular place, so I'm afraid it doesn't cause some confusion. Therefore, the amendment itself was not consistently implemented so that it would cause problems for me, because the text of the law here must be clear and precise and there is no interpretation of others other than what is stated in the law. Because we say, Article 11 speaks for itself – the criminal information department is responsible for the collection and processing of data of interest in the implementation of international criminal laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina relating but not limited to the production and trafficking of narcotics, international domestic terrorism, illicit trafficking in nuclear materials, illicit trafficking in chemical biological weapons and international organised crime, criminal offences punishable under international war and humanitarian law. The collection and processing of data and other crimes where there are international elements, where there is an obligation between Bosnia and Herzegovina on the basis of international agreements, but there are other members 41, say the Department of Protection of Very Important Persons, and now explains, so the Department for the Protection of Diplomatic Consular Representatives has and its description is specifically indicated, but I say in this attempt to unify the Agency's activities in one place are left out some things that are very important and I fear that some interpretations would not come up that could cause problems in law enforcement tomorrow. As for Amendment III, Mr. Tokić, I don't mind. For example. to appoint the director and deputy directors of the agency in the manner proposed by Mr. Tokić. I think that would be more acceptable to me, too, but here in the law there is another solution that I have agreed to just to get the law finally, I repeat, but let's say this solution could be acceptable, as well as, of course, Amendment IV that's talking about abolishing the principle of rotation. I'm a supporter of the fact that we don't have a rotation, that we don't have a rotation. She's unnecessarily burdening the administration, and that part would be acceptable to me, for example. As regards Amendment V, it is proposed to introduce a special department called the Interpol Relations Department. I'm afraid there are no certain problems here, because Interpol's issue has been resolved by some other laws adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and if it were natural for him to be there and the agency to have co-operation with him, but I'm afraid the amendment is just as set up as it is not going to solve certain problems, but here's what we can think about. And the special thing about article 26. I think this is, that this is not a treasure said is not skillfully done to the end. The entry into force of this law is to apply the provisions of the AIDS law and the SNS law as far as I could see. If such a solution was to be implemented until the end, it was at least or least correctly stated that it was correct to make them stop, then the provisions of the law of the intelligence service operating in the RS area also apply. Those arguments that talk about interventions, truth by my court, not legal interventions by the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency regarding the appointment of a special director of the HNS, stand, but they cannot be the reason for such solutions in the amendment VI quoted by Mr Tokić. If so, it was correct to say that the only law of all these laws is the state law of the Agency for Research and Documentation of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina published in Official Journal No 17/96 and only in relation to that law, because Annex II to Annex IV, namely the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, stands as such – until they are replaced by an agreement or other applicable regulations by the authorities of the institutions and other bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina will continue to operate in accordance with the applicable law, and the first member of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina says the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina whose official name will now be Bosnia and Herzegovina will continue its legal existence as a state. According to this, in relation to the laws of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina which continue after the Dayton Agreement, its operation and its existence under another name, the name Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is an obligation when issues are resolved in transitional provisions and put out of force of the laws, the obligation to settle the issue. But here the problem is that it's a matter of the Agency's research and documentation affairs, as I said at the beginning I was actually already divided in part in the jurisdiction of the Federation, and in part in the jurisdiction of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Federation, I don't know how it solved it, but I think it stands there, I don't think I'm sure there's 42 provisions that, on the date of entry into force of that federal law, cease in the territory of the Federation or in the field of the Federation, whether the provisions governing the issues governed by that law apply. If we do so, and should do so, then let's say that provision could say that on the day of entry into force of this law in the territory of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it would cease to apply the provisions of all the laws governing the area governed by this law. It may stand so, but it is my judgment and assumed and therefore I have not made an amendment to this provision. Thank you so much. I couldn't speak any faster, and I had all this to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2397	The word is Mr. Nikola Špirić, Chairman of the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2398	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed delegates, I will, of course, make sure that we bring the debate down in principle to pass this law today. You remember, it's no shame to remind you that I had about 19 amendments about the first draft of the law. In a conversation with various representatives of the international community, in talks with fellow delegates, and after the open opportunity to accept three amendments that mean a fundamental improvement in the text of the law have given up only on all other amendments. So from the beginning, my principle was to lead to a kativity that this law was passed, and here I hope today we are on a good path. As far as the amendments we have from my colleague Tokić are concerned, I will, of course, say my vision for the reason that I said I would make a statement about the amendments in the debate, which is both collegiate and which I think is good anyway. As for the first amendment by counterpart Tokić, which says that the agency is an independent institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina that corresponds to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the BiH Council of Ministers, I think the law has better solved this problem, as dualism in interpreting practical situations opens up. Let's say attitude 1 introduces a double responsibility towards Parliament and the Council of Ministers. What if one of those same reports is accepted by one authority, the other does not accept, which is not a rare practice in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Then what is the stage of giving orders and determining responsibility, if it is responsibility. It is possible to obtain a stalemate position in an exposed manner or to adapt to only one of these two organs. So whether the Council of Ministers or the Parliamentary Assembly. So I share the sighting of fellow Spahić who also said that as I recall, of course. It seems to me that he better solved the original text of the law that was adopted by the Constitutional and Legal Commission. When it comes to amanadman, it is therefore about amendments whose matter is regulated by this law. So it wasn't the amendments that regulated some new areas, it was all covered by the law. Amendment II, for example, the work cycle and the agency's tasks are contained in members who are regulated by the Agency's internal organisation, i.e. the department's affairs. So, if the law and amendments are read, then the law is designed, but there is no 43 need to go with this amendment because it's regulated by the law. The second thing is that the law has avoided regulating this area, so that the amendment works. It seems to me when it comes to the amendment of directors and deputies to six years that it is also necessary to remain in the legal solution for the reason that it is wanted, given that this is a new state institution to ensure its independence. It is the same solution for all agencies and institutions where independence and even political independence are sought. You have the same solution as the Central Bank. The independence of institutions is mainly protected by a longer mandate from the executive power's mandate between the two elections, between the two electoral rounds. Which means, of course, if this is a fundamental improvement, it's not a problem to accept it, but I think we should stay with the legal solution. Of course, when it comes to the VI amendment, it refers to the abolition of the AIDS law and the SNS law, but I think that, above all, entity parliaments must make decisions by adopting a special law on the termination of these laws in this area so that this law cannot be formally defined in this way. I'm afraid we don't get into a legal offense that wouldn't be good. I will, of course, present my judgment on these amendments individually with a statement on each of these amendments, and here I am pleased to have a debate today and I am convinced that after this debate we will have a positive view of the law as a whole. Thank you. If there are no more debaters to speak, Mr. Tokić, who is also the promoter of the amendments we discussed.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2400	I thank all the envoys, the delegates who took part in the debate on my amendments. I wish according to the suggestions given in the debate to withdraw the amendment and from the plea. Amendment II, I think, in addition to well-intentioned suggestions, has its full logic. He does not disturb in a certain way and other issues raised in special departments, so I do not think he is questioning the provisions spoken of by Mr Džaferović. amandman III, I accept the suggestions that have been made and I would ask to rephrase the amendment. I believe that we can go - the director and the deputy agency is appointed by the Presidency, confirmed by the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The term of office of director and deputy director is four years. I do not see any logic in the explanation that the independence of that institution and less politicalism will be expressed if any political structure or set-up of a parliamentary or executive body is appointed to 44 6, i.e. to 4 years and from the aspect of control and from the aspect of everything, including practice, most often it is consistent with the mandate of one who controls that function. Amendment IV, I would insist on this amendment, because I simply believe that, today in particular, the High Representative stressed that these rotations, by introducing them everywhere, simply do not have their full logic. When it comes to the need to agree on the overall amendments, I think it is really more appropriate to keep Amendment V, which I am referring to, because dealings with Interpol, it is logical that these jobs are really in the service of the agency, rather than within the Ministry of Civil Affairs, which is being initiated by the Ministry with really diverse non-consistencies, in part, of the work. Amendment VI, I really respect the attention you've all given to this, but I warn you that we are really coming into a paradoxical situation. The law adopted by the Federation of Defacto, which is again not the Federation's jurisdiction to abolish the action of AIDS and SNS on the territory of the Federation, which means AIDS and SNS should only act on the territory of whether the Republika Srpska is about to caricate. I am indeed calling on you to a constitutional provision there very clearly states that it is the obligation of the institution of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina to take care of continuity and the abolition of jurisdiction. With this provision, the defacto would really cease the AID's activities in a way that its earlier, earlier, semi-circular division at the state level and at the entity level defined by this Federation intelligence law. That's the only reason, and I think any other legal interpretation puts us in a position to have a law, a valid law, an integral part of a constitutional legal system that is simply excess. There's so much to this provision, I apologize only for this transformation of Article 3, but I think it's short enough that we don't need to take a break to define myself.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2401	I thank Mr. Tokić. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea for amendments. You've received Mr. Tokić's amendments. You just got Mr. Turjačanin's amendment, I think you would, let's take the order.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2402	(speaks from place, indistinct)
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2403	We're approaching the plea, please. Mr. Tokić withdrew Amendment I.. dakle we won't plead. 45 Let's go to Amendment II. You have amendments, there's no need for a stenogram to read. So how did we get them on the table or should we read them?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2404	(speaks from place)
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2405	No, Tokić told you, you listened to Tokić it was quite something else. Please, nice. Let's go to Amendment II of Mr. Tokić on the Information and Protection Agency Act. Who's in favor of this amendment? - Five who's against the amendment? - Five So, this amendment hasn't been adopted. Amendment III Who is Mr. Tokic for Amendment III? - Four who's against it? - Who's being held back? There's no need, there can be no problem. Who's being held back? - Four abstentions. So he doesn't have most. We're going to Amendment IV to Mr. Tokić. Who's in favor of this amendment? Who's against it? - Seven who's restrained? - Two So there is no majority or amendment IV. Amendment V Who's for Amendment V to Mr. Tokić? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you. We're going to Amendment VI. Who's in favour of Amendment VI? Who's against it? Who's being held back? - Five So the amendments weren't adopted. We're going to the amendment of Mr. Turjačanin. You've got the amendment. Amendment I Article 3. 2. proposes to change and read – The Agency will have an office in Banja Luka, Brcko and Mostar. 46 Who is for this amendment? - Two, who's against it? Are there any abstentions? - three abstentions so this amendment didn't get most of it. We're moving on to a statement about the law. Who's for the law we got in this form? - 13 Who's against it? Who's being held back? So I am pleased to find that we have passed the Law on the Information and Protection Agency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on to Ad. Nine. Giving consent to the ratification of the development credit agreement (the Private Sector Project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republika Srpska and the International Development Association (IDA) you have received a report from the commission. I'm opening a debate. Is there anyone here to discuss this? He's not answering. We're closing the debate. Who's in favor of ratification of the contract? So the agreement is unanimously ratified. We're moving on to Ad. Ten. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on the promotion and protection of investments You have received a report from the committee responsible. I'm opening a debate. I thank the UN representative to Mr. Gravel outside Mr. Klajn's office. Absolutely. Here you go. I'm sorry. We have consent. Go ahead. Here you go. Here you go. And here it is, and there's no problem. Gentlemen, thank you very much. 47 So we're moving on to Ad. Ten. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on the promotion and protection of investments There was no debate. Who's in? Who's against it? No abstentions. I understand that we unanimously agreed to ratify the Agreement. Ad. 11. Giving consent on the floor of the document on the accession of the former Statute of the Council of Europe you have received a report from the committee responsible. I'm opening a debate. Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Who's in? So I realize that we unanimously agreed to ratify this agreement. Ad. 12. Financial report by the Central Bank of BiH from 31.12.2001. Is anyone answering for a word? I'm opening a debate. There isn't. There's a Mr. Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2407	I would also like to thank the chairman, in the text of the Financial Report, we have also received a report from the independent vaults, which is, of course, an integral part of this report, and in this report, an independent auditor is finally listed the following sentence – without modifying the audit report published by the auditors' abstention in view of some aspects of the audit, we are drawing attention to the fact that the bank in the balance sheet contains an asset and a passive that relates to the IMF, which belong to or which are the responsibility of the government, not the banks. The abovementioned assets and passports refer to financial arrangements made at the end of 95th between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the IMF. This is only partially clear to me before I make a statement about this report I would ask someone who is competent for this and who is the reporter of the report. Thank you very much. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-27-0.u2408	I thank Mr. Genjac. It would be good if we had someone from the audit office who could explain this report. In fact, I agree that it would be good to have that clarification. I don't know which way we can. _______________________: [[no microphone turned on]] All right, thank you very much. Who's next to the word? There's no one here. I'm closing the debate. We're putting on a statement the Central Bank's annual report for 2001, actually a financial report. Who's in? - 12 Who's against it? Who's being held back? – 1 We adopted the annual, so the Financial Report of the Central Bank from 31.12.2001. Ad. 13. The Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina's annual report for 2001 submitted by the Central Bank. You've received a report from the committee responsible. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Niko. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a plea. Who's in favour of adopting the Central Bank's Annual Report? - jednoglasno jednoglasno, thank you. Ad. 14. An operational plan to meet BiH's commitments to the Council of Europe has given you a report from the committee responsible. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Niko one's answering. I'm putting on a plea. Who's for the report? - Unanimous Ad. 15. A report on the implementation of the budget of the BiH presidency for 2001 gave you a report from the committee responsible. I'm opening a crack. Niko one's answering for a hearing. I'm closing the debate. 49 I'm putting on a plea. Who's for this report? - zahvaljivati you unanimously, we jednoglasno adopted this report. Ad. 16. Report on the operations of the BiH Financial Institution's Financial Audit Office for 2001 Report submitted by the Office for Audit. You've received a report from the committee responsible. I'm opening a debate. Who's calling? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this report on the record. Who's in? 13 We unanimously adopted this report and, of course, we are now back to Ad. 5. Declaration by the House of Nations on the consideration under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Law on conflict of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina It is a law imposed by the High Representative the other day. You got that bill in today's mail. So it's about the exact same text, and we're saying today about the procedure. Who is it that this law is passed by article 100? Unanimity. Thank you. We move on to a statement on the same law under Article 100. It's just an identical text, so that's what I said. The law you received today as a proposal from the High Representative. A law imposed by the High Representative informs that he has imposed the law. That law. Yes, it is. Who is it to adopt this law? - jednoglasno jednoglasno. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we've exhausted today's agenda at this point. We passed two laws that put us in the order of productive homes. The next session on the Budget is 31. It's 5 Friday at 9.30. You've received calls, materials necessary for that session. I urge the committees to schedule their session for Thursday to work effectively on Friday. Thank you very much. Thank you. I'm closing today's session. Good-bye to 31.
