ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-03-0.u6532	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished representatives of distinguished guests, it is a pleasure and an honor to welcome you all to the newly elected representatives, and to wish you once more congratulations on their election and success in the work of building a permanent organisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to wish you fruitful work as we did in the previous term. It is an opportunity for me and to thank the representatives of the 2000-2002 calls who, however, have worked very well, who have introduced a new positive spirit in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I must say that the Parliamentary Assembly, in order not to be angry, is the leading force in building institutions and strengthening legality in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I also thank all the journalists – the reporters who followed us in this two-year term who were both patient and tolerant following us. I also thank my colleagues from the House of Peoples, the Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, without which the work of the House of Representatives and Parliament at all was so good. Also, I thank you all once again, and I want success and happiness. Special thanks to the members of my office who helped me bring this mandate to an end. Thank you. [[APLAuz]]
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-03-0.u6533	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the esteemed guests, I am opening the first constitutional session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In accordance with Article 2(2), The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives called the College of the House of Representatives of the so far called. As prescribed in point 3 of the same article, the session is chaired by the oldest MP of the newly elected swagger as temporary chairman, until the chairman of the House is elected. The duty of the interim chairman belongs to me, which I am pleased to accept. For those of you who don't know me, my name is Muhamed Altić. 2 I am taking this opportunity to welcome all the newly elected MPs, warmly congratulate them on the election of responsible duty, and wish them due work in the next four-year term. I am honored to welcome the distinguished guests of our session of the BiH Presidency, Mr Mirko Šarović, members of the BiH Presidency, Mr Sulejman Tihić and Dragan Čović, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, Mr Lasla Šurjan, co-rapporteur of the monitoring committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH Mr Franko Orton, representatives of the embassy in BiH, representatives of all other international organisations attending the session. I also welcome representatives of public information. Dear Lord, before moving to the session agenda, allow me to read the list of Members elected to this high house in the general elections held on 5 October 2002. For a reminder, I will say that according to the BiH Constitution, BiH Election Law, this house is elected by 42 MPs from Federation 28, from the space of Republika Srpska 14 MPs. The list is made up of election units according to the election commission's decision. So they were elected to the House of Representatives from the Federation of BiH Party of Democratic Action 1.. Hazim Pelić 2.. Fatima Leho 3.. Hasan Muratović 4.. Abdulah Nakaš 5.. Šefik Džaferović 6.. Mirsad Ćeman 7.. Nadžid Mlaćo 8.. Sead Paravlić 9. Izet Hadžić of the HDZ Coalition Demokrišćani 1.. Filip Andrić 2.. Boriša Čolak 3.. Martin Raguž 4.. Vinko Zorić 5.. Niko Lozančić from Party for BiH 1.. Nijaz Duraković 2.. Beriz Belkić 3.. Azra Hadžiahmetović 4.. Adem Huskić 5.. Izet Žigić Social Democratic Party of BiH 1. Zlatko Lagumdžija 2.. Jozo Križanović 3.. Sead Avdić 4.. Selim Bešlagić 3 Retirement Party 1. Muhamed Altic Democratic People's Community of BiH 1. Ibrahim Đedović HDU Economic Block for improvement 1. Mladen Potočnik New Croatian Initiative 1. Ivo Lozančić Bosnian Party 1. Muhamed Morrankic from RS Serbian Democratic Party 1. Momčilo Novaković 2.. Borislav Paravac 3.. Nenad Mišić 4.. Miloš Jovanović 5.. Ljiljana Miličević Party of Independent Social Democrats 1. Nikola Špirić 2.. Nikola Kragulj 3.. Milorad Živković Democratic Progress Party 1. Petar Kunić 2.. Jelena Đurković Socialist Party RS 1.. Tihomir Gligorić Serbian Radical Party RS 1. Mirko Blagojević Party for BiH 1.. Munib Jusufović Party of Democratic Action 1.. Elmir Jahić uvažen Members of the Parliament, I congratulate you once again on your choice and I wish you many successes in your work. You gentlemen have received extensive material in the parliamentary procedure this morning. You will receive this material after the session is completed. 4 You also received a publication containing the Constitution of BiH and the Rules of Procedure of the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I would especially like to ask you to fill out the parliamentary charts on your desk and the forms for your participation in the seminar, which, with the help of the OSCE Mission, will be organised on 12 or 13 this month. Please fill in the forms and hand over to the Secretariat. It is my duty, gentlemen, to introduce to you that a constitutional meeting of the House of Representatives of the House of Representatives has been held in preparation for this session with representatives of political parties who have received MPs in previous general elections. The meeting agreed on the order of the constitutional session. You were invited to this session to receive a draft agenda and these are two points 1. Making a solemn declaration of the elected Members of Parliament 2. The election of the chairman of the House of Representatives, the first deputy chairman, the second vice-president of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, given that this draft agenda has been agreed at a constitutional meeting, I do not think there is a need for discussion. I suggest we move on to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. I will read to you the two provisions of Article 3. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives who are shutting down Members shall take office by giving a joint and individual declaration of signature. You received the text of a solemn statement from the Service and I ask you to sign the same and return to the Service after giving the solemn statement. We ask you all to make a solemn statement together. I declare that I will knowingly do the duty you have entrusted me with. Respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Full implementation of the General Criminal Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interest and equality of all peoples and citizens. Thank you very much. Dear Members of the Parliament, with this act of giving a solemn statement, we have obtained conditions for carrying out our parliamentary duties. Crossing points two of the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-03-0.u6535	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, honored guests, from the general situation, related to the achievement of the level of democratic relations development in BiH, as well as the immeasurable roles of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament in the adoption of the law, following the imposition of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by High Representative Pedi Eždaun, which was not the subject of parliamentary 5 procedures, Serbian MPs from Republika Srpska, decided not to attend the session of the Constitutional House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a sign of the protest. We expect that the High Representative will in future avoid the adoption of the role of this parliament, and that Bosnia and Herzegovina will explain the motives of making such a decision to the public in the scheduled continuation of the session, signed by Gligorić Tihomir, Đurković Jelina, Živković Milorad, Jovanović Miloš, Kragulj Nikola, Kunić Petar, Milićević Ljiljana, Mišić Nenad, Novaković Momčilo, Paravac Borislav and Špirić Nikola. Sir, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-03-0.u6536	I suggest you take a short break for 15 minutes. We're going to continue the session. There are 28 MPs present in the O.R. From RS 2 in Federation 26. The quorum that we can decide is 22 MPs, but one third of them must be present from each entity. So we can't decide anything. We tried within article 65. Rules of Procedure in time of 60 minutes to agree on how to get out of this situation,... sits down, so, by referring to this member and Article 52(2), we interrupt this session. We will schedule the session when we agree with representatives of political parties within the framework of the clubs, you will be informed in writing. Any questions? Thank you very much. The seat was interrupted at 1250 hours. 6 Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening up, we are continuing the session of the House of Representatives of the Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. The choice of the body of the House Assembly. Since Mr. Đedović was not present last time, for the sake of a death case, he would ask Mr. Đedović to take the oath. Please stand up. I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I am entrusted with respect for the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina to protect and improve human rights and fundamental freedoms and to protect the interest and equality of all peoples and citizens. We're moving on to another point. Ad. 2. The election of the chairman of the House of Representatives, the first deputy chairman, the second deputy chairman of the Parliamentary House of BiH. You gentlemen have received the text of the Rules of Procedure of the House and have been able to get acquainted with its provisions. However, allow me to remind you of the provisions of Article 64 before you start proposing candidates. Rules of Procedure that regulates decision-making in this home. Article 64 reads - Decisions are made in the House by a majority of the votes of the MPs present and voting. The abstentions are added to the quorum, but are not added to the votes 'for', or 'against'. MPs will make the most of their efforts to include at least 1/3 of the MPs from the territory of each entity. In all cases, the number of votes counted shall be at least equal to the quorum prescribed in Article 52(2). The provisions of Article 52(2) stipulates that the quorum consists of 22 MPs, with at least 1/3 of the MPs present from each entity. These are basic remarks regarding the House's decision. 7 According to the Service report, I find that 39 MPs attend the session and that on the basis of the number, we have the right to make important decisions. The absence was justified, i.e. with a delay will come Mr Ivo Lozančić. Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving to work on the second item of the agenda. You have received a copy of the Rules of Procedure, which contains provisions relating to the election of the chairman, first and second vice-president. Let me, however, Members of Parliament visit you on these Rules of Procedure. Point 1 of Article 4. The rules of procedure of this house stipulates that the House of its members elects one Srbin, one Hrvat and one Bošnjak to perform the duties of the chairman, first vice-president and second vice-president. The chairman cannot be elected from the same constituent people as the chairman of the BiH presidency and the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I would like to remind you that he is now in office of the chairmanship of the presidency of the Serb people who took office on 28 October this year. The chairman of the Council of Ministers is also from the order of the Serb people, who took up the post on 15 March 2002. Therefore, now in office of the chairman's House of Representatives, we should elect a candidate from the Bosniak people's order, the first vice-president of the Serb people's presidency, as second candidate from the Croatian people. Point 2 of Article 4 The Rules of Procedure stipulates that every MP has the right to propose candidates for this duty. If there are more candidates for one place, the order of candidates will be determined by drawing. Once a list of candidates for each place has been established, it shall access the vote. According to point 3 of the same member in the first round of voting, the first vote is voted in favour of the chairman, then the first vice-president, and the second vice-president of the House. And in the second round, the vote is the other way around. Point 4 of Article 4 of the vote - If more candidates for one place do not get the required majority of the vote is repeated for the 2 candidates who received the most votes. Point 5 of Article 4. – The choice decision is taken in principle by the majority in favour of decision-making, with representatives of the political parties represented in the House, and if the consensus fails to vote again, the majority of those present, but not the entity majority, will agree. And lastly, point 6 of Article 4 reads – If no candidate has received the required majority of the vote, it repeats itself. I hope we understand this procedure. I ask the MPs to present proposals for the leadership of the House. Please, here you go, Mr. Špirić. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-03-0.u6538	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, esteemed guests, representatives of foreign information, I just want to start by saying at least what the personal motive is, this is the continuation of the constitutional session. We left last session in protest to impose legal projects, which is the basic task of the BiH Parliament, I would like to say publicly that our aim was to protect Parliament and MPs' dignity, not obstruct the work of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which we are proving today. It would be good if the High Representative explained what the motives were. Whether mistrust towards the future assembly of Parliament, taught by experiences from previous years or something third. It is not beyond our ability to influence this, but when it comes to the continuation of the constitutional session, I want to draw attention, so with the goal of completing today's constitutional part that according to the interpretation of OHR which put one decision of the Rules of Procedure out of force that the abstentions do not count as quorum, which is very important that we know. So abstentions are not added to the quorum and it is important that we know if we have that interpretation, whether we apply it or not, that we do not come into the situation to subsequently interpret the OHR Rules of Procedure and Decision. So I wish we had that attitude before the vote. If it takes a break for the Service to take that decision into account, to make an insight into the decision, it's much better, than to finish the vote and let's say by which decision we're now counting votes. So the abstentions in the vote don't count as quorum. The decision was put out of force following OHR's decision. Please, there are people here from the Service, there are people from the last call and I would ask that this decision be shared with the MPs if we knew whether we were working in accordance with that decision or not. So it's very important, it doesn't matter what we apply, but to know just what's on the dream to make the decision valid. Thank you very much. And here's the Home Secretary, I can give you that interpretation. He also has a secretary of the House of Representatives. Thank you very much. It seems to me that this is very useful for us to know, so it's not the goal, it's nothing but knowing whether it's it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-03-0.u6539	Am I looking to get out?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-03-0.u6540	Here you go. There's a representative. Come on, Branka.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-03-0.u6541	I'm sorry to keep you waiting, but I really didn't know what Ambassador Špirić was talking about right away. I think he's probably thinking about a legal opinion the OHR gave us in 2001. That means the legal opinion of the OHR, if it is Mr Špirić, we can multiply it during a shorter break. 9 However, I warn that the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives are decadent and that the Article 64 applies. I do not know that he has been put out of force, and a member of the 64th reads: Decisions in the House are made by the majority of the votes of the MPs who are present and who vote. The abstentions are added to the quorum and are not added to the votes that are "for" or "against". I mean, that provision is clear. This is the Rules of Procedure adopted by the House, and he has a legal opinion, and here I am now from my colleagues, but I did not know that I would need him in these situations, and so far, such a problem has not occurred in the House of Representatives. I can't get by quickly in this legal opinion right now, but this is a provision adopted by this house. I'm asking you to have an understanding for the service. If it is necessary to multiply this opinion, we will be very happy to do so, but we have before us a Rules of Procedure of this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-03-0.u6542	Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-03-0.u6543	Ladies and gentlemen, so I was right when I asked for clarification. The legal opinion of OHR in 2001 cannot be mandatory, and in 2002, you know, it does not matter. The Rules of Procedure are older. How is it possible that this legal opinion is binding in 2001? So I ask you to share it with the messengers and let us take a stand. I know what the Rules of Procedure means, as I know what different arrangements mean for this country to entertain. But I ask you therefore that MPs have an interpretation and let them take their stand. It's their right. Don't let us hide it from them, then they say we didn't know. There's no hiding here. Everything has to be transparent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-03-0.u6544	I'm sorry, I'm obliged to do it again, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-03-0.u6545	I'll allow it. Here, come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-03-0.u6546	I'm really sorry, but I'm just trying to help avoid any misunderstandings, and if we don't find out from this room then.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-03-0.u6547	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-03-0.u6548	Wait a minute, please. Do we have the will? I suggest, first, that this legal opinion, since we see that various interpretations can still be multiplied, but I will remind you from this legal opinion that my colleague from the Joint Service has forwarded to me, and in this conclusion that we have received, it is legal opinion that 10 – abstentions are not counted at any stage when deciding the number of members present and voting, but all present members are counted with the aim of establishing the existence of the quorum. That's, I don't think there's any particular difference here, but if you want us to pass this legal opinion on to you immediately on a brief break. If. Do you want to forward it?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-03-0.u6549	Please, would you like to get this interpretation? But I don't think that's necessary when both Rules of Procedure and interpretation are the same. You see the contents. If you want to get an interpretation to take a break a few minutes to make a deal. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-03-0.u6550	I'm sorry. [[speaks from place]] How can it be the same and applied differently? I don't understand you. I've been here six years.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-03-0.u6551	All right, come on. Legal services, go ahead. Okay. Please, since Mr. Špirić insists that it is not the same thing to take five minutes off and we'll see what it is. Okay, are we gonna wait or should we continue? Please, please, let's propose candidates, and by then we'll get this interpretation. Who's answering for a word? Mrs. Paravlić Seada, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-03-0.u6552	Dear chairman, distinguished guests, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished colleagues and media. Since the seat of the chairman of this house belongs to a representative from the Bošnjak order, the SDA club proposes Mr. Šefik Džaferović as chairman. Short biographic data are as follows: Šefik Džaferović was 09.9.1957 in Zavidovici. He graduated from elementary school and high school there. Faculty of Law in Sarajevo graduated in 1979 with a score of 9.26. He's the winner of the University of Sarajevo's gold badge. So far, he's been working on affairs in the judiciary, the administration, the police, Parliament and federal and state. He worked as the judge of the Municipal Court in Zavidovici, the judge of the Higher Court in Zenica, a lawyer, a secretary in Zenica County, the head of the CZB Zenik, the chairman of the ZD Canton Assembly, a delegate at the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH and a delegate at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The father of two children is married and lives in Zenica. I hope you'll support the candidate of the SDA. Thank you. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-03-0.u6553	Thank you very much. Gentlemen, are there any other suggestions? Mr. Ambassador Knežević, Novaković pardon.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-03-0.u6554	Mr. Chairman, distinguished guests, colleagues and fellow MPs, since the order of the Serb people provides for him to be the first deputy chairman, means immediately at the beginning of the SDS MPs' club for the first deputy, Mr. Paravac Borislav of Doboj, born in 1943 and today settled in Doboj. He graduated from the Faculty of Economics in 1966 in Zagreb. By 1990, he worked in the economy mostly in management places. From 1990 to 2000 he was president of the IO municipality of Doboj. An MP in the National Assembly from 1996 to this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-03-0.u6555	Thank you very much. Any further suggestions? Mr. Niko Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-03-0.u6556	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished officials that, in accordance with the current rules of procedure, the positions of the second vice-president of this House belong to a representative of the Croatian people, I will, on behalf of the HDZ Coalition Club, propose for this position Mr. Bariš Čolak, born in 1956 in Široki Brijeg. The married, father of two children, who has been in the current period, is otherwise a graduate lawyer, who has been acting as judge, office of minister, office of Prime Minister and office of representative. In the shortest words, he held duties in institutions and executive and legislative and judicial authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-03-0.u6557	Do we have any other suggestions? If we don't have a proposal, we have three candidates. Let me give you a break 10 minutes to make it. Actually, I'm sorry, there's no need for a break because we have three candidates. No more suggestions. We're going back to work. I suggest we move on to the vote. Let me do it again. For the chairman of the Parliamentary House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, MP Džaferović Šefik, the first deputy, Paravac Dobrislav, was proposed for second Deputy Čolak Boriš. Borvoy Paravac, I apologize. Please, we vote yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-03-0.u6558	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, honored guests, I suggest that the vote be made on behalf of the SNSD Club because of the regularity and removal of any doubt about regularity, since this is one of the most important decisions in this House of Representatives by reference.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-03-0.u6559	Please, the Service has an objection.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-03-0.u6560	Honourable MPs, dear guests, I am obliged to warn of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure in the next sense. Article 4(3) of our Rules of Procedure is decadent and I want to read it. In the first round of voting, the first votes for the chairman, then for the first vice-president, and for the second chairman, and for the second vice-president of the presidency and in the second round in reverse order. This has its meaning, so in the first round we only determine how many candidates for one position received votes from the total number of those present and who vote and in the second round we go to the entity's statement in reverse, so starting with the second deputy, first and chairman. In this way, the first candidate would be named the second vice-president and the first and the first and the fourth and then we would have the entire leadership of the House. So this is the situation where we go towards the Rules of Procedure that you should stick to. I am obliged to warn you that there is a premise for how a vote can be made through a call. I want to read it to you, too. Article 69. The Rules of Procedure reads: Voting will be applied when the chairman and vice-president, or at the proposal of the representative of the Members' Club, assesses that this is necessary to remove doubts about the regularity of the vote's results. I ask that this provision be respected, and this may be requested by the chairman of the House, the vice-president of whom we still do not have, the proposal of a club of MPs which we do not have, or there is an assessment that it is necessary to remove the sun from the voting regularity. If I correctly interpret it, it should be carried out later to question the regularity of the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-03-0.u6561	Do you accept the MP's proposal? Forgive me. I'm as new as you are, Nikola Kragulj. Do you accept Nikola Kragulj's proposal? Since there's no discussion we're going to the vote. We don't have any clubs yet. They're unconstitutional. We're going to the vote to see if we're going to stick to the Rules of Procedure or whether we're going to be able to get a readout from the MP. Who's in favor of lifting the charts? No... that the representatives of the SDS will demand an individual statement in the vote, that it be called. Are we for the SDS proposal? Well, he didn't introduce himself. Let him come out here and introduce himself. No need to take a break. You have a Rules of Procedure. Are we going to work on the Rules of Procedure or aren't we going to work? We have to work on the Rules of Procedure, so we're going to vote. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-03-0.u6562	I'm sorry. Dear MPs, I'm really sorry. I haven't talked much for the whole last term, I'm not one of those people, but, look, I'm in a position to explain a little bit. I think the provision of article 69 is clear. So that's what the Chairman of the House can ask for. We now have the post of temporary chairman, vice-chairman or at the proposal of the representatives of the Members' clubs. First of all, MPs' clubs are formed according to Article 5 within seven days of the end of the election process of the chairman, first and second deputy, these are deadlines for the formation of MPs' clubs and I think we should approach the vote here as established by the Rules of Procedure by raising voting cards, and if suspected of the regularity of such a vote, then we should approach the call. We're ready to call. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-03-0.u6563	Are you satisfied with this explanation? Yes, it is. Let's go to the vote. For the chairman of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, Mr Džaferović Šefik was proposed. By lifting up the charts to vote who's in favour. Who's in? Who's against it? Restraint? The results of the vote. The sitting attends as I said 39 MPs. For Mr Džaferović, 23 – against 14 – abstentions 2. We're going to vote for First Deputy Mr. Borislav Paravac. By picking up the crathons who's in favour? Who's in? Who's against it? Restraint? For Mr Paravac, the results are as follows: 23 for –14 against - abstention 2. We're going to the second chairman. Mr. Bariša Čolak has been proposed. Who's in? Who's against it? The abstentions? The second deputy voted in favour of 23 – against 12 – abstentions 2. Since the candidates received most of the votes for the chairman of the dom, Mr. Džaferović Šefik was elected, they received the majority. We're moving on. Now we're going to vote on entities. Now we're going in reverse order. 14 Who is for Mr Bariša Čolak to be the second deputy, first of the Federation of BiH. Who is in favour of representing the Croatian people as the second deputy chairman of the House of Peoples of the BiH Assembly. Who's in? We vote for a representative from the RS. Who's from Republika Srpska for? Gentlemen, I realize Bariša Čolak has been elected second deputy chairman of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament's House of Representatives. Bariša Čolak received 15 votes. Out of 15 votes he received from Federation 8 and Republika Srpska 8. So we have that third entity and so on. Now we're going to the election of the first deputy, first vote by the Federation MPs. Who is from the Federation to be elected Mr. Paravac for the first deputy. Who's in favor of the Federation? - 15 Who's from RS for? – 8 gospodin Paravac received 8 votes that is the majority of the RS and from the Federation he received 15. Therefore, congratulations to the chosen one. Now we're going to see Mr. Jaferovic, the chairman. I'm asking the Federation MPs to galls out who's in. Who's in? Please, MPs from the RS who's in favour? – 8 The Federation for Mr Džaferović voted 15 from RS 8. He therefore received the majority and congratulated Mr. Džaferović. Congratulations on the newly elected leadership of this high home in the election for these very responsible duties and I wish them successful work. Before the newly elected chairman and deputies take their seats, I'll give you 10 minutes off. MPs, I ask the elected leadership of this house to take their seats. [[PAUZA]] We're going back to work. Take your seats. The word has the newly elected chairman of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly Presidency, Mr. Džaferović Šefik.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-03-0.u6564	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Honorable Chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, your Excellency, representatives of the international community, representatives of the media, ladies and gentlemen, 15 Let me, on behalf of myself and the elected Deputy Chairman of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, thank Mr Muhamed Altić for his successful presidency in the first part of the constitutive session of this high house. I warmly thank you, Mr Altić, and I wish you successful parliamentary work in this term. On behalf of my deputies and on my personal behalf, I would like to thank you gentlemen Members of Parliament for the confidence shown that we are running this high house for the next four years. The next four years are the reform years for BiH. Bosnia and Herzegovina is going through reforms. This home will play a significant role on Bosnia and Herzegovina's reform path, and I call on all MPs to make their full contribution to Bosnia and Herzegovina on its reform path. I expect this home in that first one to make a constructive contribution of itself. takiđer, I expect this high house to meet all the constitutional obligations ahead of it. Constitutional obligations relating to legislative activity, constitutional obligations relating to control activities, constitutional obligations relating to informationnf activities and constitutional obligations relating to the internal regulation of this home. It is my duty to conclude, to remind you of the provision of Article 5. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, under which, within seven days of the day of the House's constitution, MPs may form Members' clubs in accordance with Article 15. Each club of MPs shall provide a list of its members signed by each member including the official name of the MPs' club, the name of the chairman and the name of the vice-chair club. It shall also be an essential provision of Article 6 at this time, which shall expire within seven days of the expiry of the period referred to in Article 5. The House shall, on a proposal from the Members' clubs, decide on membership in committees according to Article 27 of this MP. You, gentlemen, have received the text of the Rules of Procedure in addition to the other materials. I ask you to pay attention to Articles 15 and 27 in order to be effective in establishing the clubs and committees of the House and so put this home fully into office, because as you have seen from the materials you have received, we have a large part of the work that has remained unfinished in the previous term as well as the work that will arrive. I call on all MPs for maximum co-operation, in order to ensure that the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina works as well as possible. I thank you once again, and I want successful work. I would, at this point in agreement with the vice-presidents, give a break at today's session of this house by 1 3 o'clock. We need to hold a session of the House College, an extended House College, which is being joined by the chairman, then representatives of political parties and I call on representatives of the BiH Presidency and representatives of the Council of Ministers to agree on our further work on the Budget of the BiH institutions and the Law on the Implementation of Budget. Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget, according to what has reached me as chairman as a tip, needs to be adopted by the 12th of this month. At this point, I'm interrupting, or setting a break until 13 o'clock when I'll meet you back here. Yes, here you go, Mr. Špirić. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-03-0.u6565	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, I am taking the opportunity to congratulate the chair and his deputies on the election, but also to draw attention to the fact that we've been doing a business on this session's agenda, so we've taken the agenda out of business, this does not slow down for the new college to sit down and schedule a new first session, that it is dedicated to this or that part of the agenda that matters. So, I'm asking you only in accordance with the Rules of Procedure not to take a break after the session is over. If someone presses to continue, to change the agenda, it is impossible to do business, but it is possible to open the debate and schedule the first regular session and dedicate what they agree on. I therefore ask you only to do business, not to correct the breaks, that someone warns us in the halls what is important for this country and that the citizens in BiH will not eat breakfast, lunch and dinner reforms, but what is called food. Someone has, apparently, the need to talk about reforms only without them being essentially implemented in this country. So, I would like to conclude, in my view, that we have finished our constitutional session and we are asking the new college to inform us urgently that it can schedule an emergency session of the first working session and that we are working as a serious home of the State Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-03-0.u6566	I thank Mr. Špirić for this business intervention. Formal and business surveillance Mr. Špirić is right. I'm concluding the work of this constitutive session, but I'm also informing you, please, I'm asking that we stay out of the building today and I'm inviting you to meet me here again at 1:00. Please, Mr. Špirić, let me finish. I invite you to meet again here today at 13 p.m. and therefore the time will be held by the College and will inform you of the decision, that is, its proposal on the Budget that I have already spoken of. This is what I'm entitled to as chairman. You were right, Mr. Špirić. I should formally conclude the work of the constitutive session. So, I'm closing a constitutional session and I'm inviting you at 1:00 to meet me back in this room. Thank you. I call on representatives of political parties, representatives of the BiH presidency, and representatives of the Council of Ministers to sit with the College, related to the Budget. The seat is over.
