ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1604	Dear delegates of your Excellency, honored guests, I am opening the 14th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are 15 delegates present. Of these five from the Bosniak people, five from the Croatian people and five from the Serb people. So, the sessions are present all elected delegates and envoys. Since we have a quorum and we can make decisions in full for the 14th session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I propose the next agreed agenda on behalf of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. 1. Answers to delegates' questions and delegates' questions; 2. Records with 10,11,12 and 13 sessions of the House of Peoples; 3. Appointment of members for the joint commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to reach an agreement on the same text of the BiH Customs Tariff; 4. Declaration on the joint commission's report on the achievement of an agreement on the single text of the industrial property law in BiH; 5. Declaration on the examination pursuant to Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of Law on the purpose and use of property, which BiH received under the agreement of the succession of former SFRY – Proposed by Envoy Ivo Divković; 6. Proposal for a law on the use and protection of the Red Cross sign and the name of the Red Cross/Brussels Society – Proposer of the Council of Ministers – First Reading; 7. Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on co-operation and mutual assistance in customs matters – BiH Presidency; 8. Agreement between BiH and the Government of the Republic of Italy on the promotion and protection of investments – BiH Presidency; 9. Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on cooperation and surrender, acceptance of persons whose stay is illegal – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 10. Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Slovenia on the reciprocal improvement and protection of investments – BiH Presidency Proposer; 11. Protocol to prevent, silence and punish human trafficking, especially women and children, which complements the UN Convention against 2 Transnational, Organized Crime, signed in New York on 7 September 2000 – BiH Presidency; 12. Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Swiss Federal Council on international road transport of persons and goods - the BiH Presidency; 13. Protocol on the establishment and functioning of cultural centres between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey – BiH Presidency; 14. Protocol against migrant smuggling by land, sea and air, supplementing the UN Convention against Transnational, Organized Crime, signed in New York on 7 September 2000 – BiH Presidency; 15. UN Convention against Transnational, Organized Crime – BiH Presidency Proposer; 16. The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court – Proposer of the Presidency; 17. Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official travel documents – BiH Presidency; 18. Free Trade Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Slovenia – BiH Presidency; 19. An agreement between BiH and the state of Kuwait on the promotion and reciprocal protection of investments – the BiH presidency. This agenda has been agreed by all members of the House of People's Colleges. In the course of defining the agenda, there was a proposal to find, as today's agenda point, the law the Bureau proposes in its first reading, the information and protection agency in BiH. No agreement was reached from the Bureau during the debate in the College to include the item as a agenda, and we did not, as a College, achieve that agreement. The rest of us are here to talk about the whole agenda. Meanwhile, the work of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH also joined the chairman of the BiH presidency and members of the presidency, Mr Križanović, Belkić and Radišić, and I thank them for their presence. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. I shall inform the delegates that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, they have the possibility of proposing a three-minute agenda supplementation. Here you go. Mr Spahić answered the word and then Mr Turjačanin.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1605	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman, members of the BiH presidency, I am pleased that for the first time since the meeting of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, all three members of the Presidency are present at the House of Srbin, Bošnjak and Hrvat. I would like to say that, I do not express my satisfaction that no member, not one representative of the Council of Ministers, attends this session, regardless of the obligations they have, I consider that the agenda is very serious and has been set up so that there is a need for some of those points that we have foreseen in the first item of the agenda, and these are the answers to the delegation and parliamentary questions, it was necessary to have the presence and presence of representatives of the Council of Ministers. On this occasion, as soon as possible, I wanted to express, above all, the satisfaction that the Constitutional and Legal Commission unanimously confirmed the constitutional 3 basis of the law on the Agency for Infits and Protection of BiH, the laws proposed by the BiH Presidency and which gave a very well-founded explanation of the importance and the need for the adoption of such a legal act, in the light of the construction of BiH institutions. What I expected at today's session is, given the letter I received from the College, from the Chair of the College, when the Commission was scheduled, that this item would be on the agenda and I am sorry that it did not happen. I would like to ask for an explanation why this law is not on the agenda, because it is required that we organise the work of the Commission in the appropriate time. We organized it and finished our work and in normal procedure, without any rush, it was natural to hold that debate at a session like this, but good. So my proposal is very simple. I'd like to get an explanation first. Which is why the request, which was addressed to us to put the law into normal procedure, when we did the job, which is why the law was not implemented on that basis at the level of our home's agenda and finally, when we get an explanation, I'm going to use this third minute of my own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1606	I thank the honourable envoy, Mr Spahić. I took this discussion as a potential proposal to include the law on the protection of BiH's information on the agency, and I would ask that we warn the debate on the matter, that Mr Špirić, who did not give the College the consent that such a item of the agenda is going on today, may have informed the information and before that, Mr Rodić reported to the replica, and then I would ask Mr Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1607	Dear fellow delegates, I would just like to say a few words about Mr Spahić's initiative as president of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and that he is surprised why this point is not included in the agenda today. It was also on the Constitutional Legal Commission to try to reach the conclusion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission to give the House of People a proposal to take an emergency procedure, etc. to go into procedure. I would like for the sake of the public and everything to be heard and to take a stenogram of how this debate was concluded, and the fact is that constitutional legal basis is the only point, the only thing we were pleading on the Constitutional and Legal Commission at that time was the constitutional and legal basis. However, I must ask a question and I am glad that today the members of the Bureau are present and that we see the method of our work of what is wrong and what is wrong. We had information from Mr. Srđan Arnaut on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, who is the Secretary General of the Presidency and the Honorable Mr. from the UN, who deals with these areas and I will tell you what. That an absolute consensus has been reached for all parties when it comes to this agency law, that this is the result of consensus in the presidency in entity governments and entity MUPs, and that this was for the first time not the initiative of the international community, but that it was the initiative of our domestic government and what should exist in one country. 4 However, because of the proper information and what I want to say we talked about constitutional basis, it was also at the House of Representatives and because of insufficient information and insufficient serious information, which was on the Constitutional Commission, and the psoli is due to certain differences that have occurred and that we have come to know, I think we need to get an answer today to what was controversial in this whole story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1608	I thank Mr Rodić for his intervention. I'd like to ask you, we have no reason to open a discussion about content. I'll certainly give you my word. Here you go, Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1609	I would like to, of course, since counterpart Rodić pointed out the very precise allegations of BiH Presidency representative Srđan Arnaut, BiH Presidency secretary and Mr Gavela of the international community in this case, said I was clear. I asked for the first respite. I didn't insist on proposing a agenda. So, I did not repeat what we did not agree on on the Commission, and I respected the Commission's agreement, but I expressed my misunderstanding, if so much agreement has been reached which Mr Rodić spoke about why something, which was referred to the Commission in a correct way by the chairman of the House of People, which was given by the official representative responsible for the proposal of this law, is correct, why the law is not on the agenda according to normal procedure, not in an emergency procedure and why no debate is being held under normal procedure. I am fully agreed that any delegate, including a representative of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, can present his proposal for a speedy and different solution, if otherwise voted, as Mr Rodić knows and does your information, I accepted that attitude and we did not go to the House of Peoples with this proposal. Therefore, this is about delegate Ibrahim Spahić, who asked the question, since he concluded that a high degree was reached, practically complete agreement on a legal act. We have information in its meaning, how to ask a question in a practical way. That's why I didn't want to go into the debate, but asked for an explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1610	I would just ask that we hold a session and that we have a session where we are aware of the following facts, which is, that this law is not a business point today, but at the next session of the House of Peoples, it will be a mandatory point, if the motion stays with its proposal. Therefore, this law will come on the agenda in every variant. My intervention, in a determined manner towards the Commission and an attempt at the College, was based on discussions and contact with the chairman of the Presidency, who asked, given the importance of a law that no one disputes, indeed, from all subjects to have this point already today, and also from some other relevant institutions and in this context only to reduce what would be the necessary tension, this law will certainly be the subject of consideration today or at the next session of the House of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly. 5 Since it is very important for the further course of discussion on the agenda that Mr Špirić as a member of the College, the first vice-president of the House of Nations explain why he could not give consent to the decision of the College to be a part of the agenda today. I would like to ask Mr Špirić to give this obstinate, and perhaps by that he would like to warn some discussions in the coming period.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1611	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed fellow delegates, respected members of the BiH presidency, esteemed guests, I thought there would be no need for special explanations, as if I didn't see a need for special haste. Every time you express the need for special haste, it means that something is wrong. For every law, every law must be reached through a clear parliamentary debate, tolerance, in the face of arguments in order to have the law. My reserve for this law is both formal and business nature, so there are two reasons and for the public I want to say which was one of the first reasons. We are seriously preparing for each session of the House, and we want to come to legal meetings in a serious debate. It seems to me that this is the home and has shown that in this year we passed 41 laws that are of interest to BiH and I see no reason to fear whether we will adopt this legal project as well. I have a letter from Mr Radišić's member, saying in one position that he was subsequently informed that the above remarks were not fully incorporated into this law which, therefore, was the subject of the debate and the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which we wanted, unambiguously, that the Presidency further agreed its views so that we could have a starting basis based on which we can discuss and I don't think we should, today we need to save words to get to the law at the next session. I'm afraid if today, for procedural reasons, we go into different kinds of accusations that this law will wait much longer in procedure than we would like as delegates. The second thing, I think it is not possible to discuss this law in a business way today, is that this letter has nothing to say to the Rules of Procedure each draft law is delivered to the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which should give an opinion on the compliance of this law with the Constitution, Article 78g.2. That phase is over. According to this opinion, Article 79.1. The chairman delivers the opinion to the committee responsible, and yesterday was the Constitutional-Praise Commission. Where is that written text to the competent commission? So, the Constitutional and Legal Commission in its work has two phases. The adoption of an opinion on the constitutional and legal basis and, as a second phase, the work on the draft legislation during which the members of the national clubs and the committee responsible can submit amendments in writing, Article 81, to determine the final text of the proposal, to be submitted to the House. So it's a business procedure. In a specific case, i.e. The proposal that the law on the Information and Protection Agency of BiH should be discussed before the House without the second phase being previously carried out. The amendment phase in the Constitutional and Legal Commission is a violation of the procedure laid down by the Rules of Procedure and for these reasons so that it cannot be discussed today. I'm asking you to do a serious legislative project and I don't see any reason, so it's not that you want to argue that you're not going to argue, but it's about respecting the procedure and, of course, respecting the position of a member of the Bureau, who is expressing suspicion 6 that something that has been agreed is not included in the law. Please, if today's wisdom works and the desire to get to the law with the volume we need to stop, I'm afraid if we go into further doubt whether someone has fooled anyone whether it's in sync or not, it's not in sync, and so on. It wouldn't be a tone of discussion that would be on the line of adoption of this law. So please, therefore, there are no formal-legal conditions to be in the House session today, here's to forget this memo, which came for the mints, too, relevant. That's why I don't see any reason for this kind of rush, if we're all agreed to come to the law. After all, if I ask you as a delegate that in a few days we make the consultations that matter to this law. Why don't you let that happen? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1612	I would just like to say, of course, that the College has come forward with the view not to put this item on the agenda, because there was no agreement in the College and what it appreciates is that it is better to achieve agreement and debate the content of the law rather than procedural issues, formally, if it is Dom or College, College, or Dom determines by Article 90, including Article 79, it is possible to have this today, but I do not see the purpose of getting the procedure now on that plan, and I would say one more, a letter that has been introduced to you by a respected colleague Špirić, a letter addressed only to Špirić and it was not addressed to the College or the chairman of the House. The word was further reported, as I followed, a Turjačanin delegate, but I would take advantage of that possibility and one order to give first members of the presidency, so much before they were the proposings, chairman of the BiH presidency, Mr Križanović. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1613	Mr. Chairman, honourable delegates, with respect and time and to say the tasks ahead today at this session, I would only like to highlight three facts as soon as possible. I do not want to open a debate here on the way the BiH presidency works, in particular in the case of this draft law. I am responsible for your claim that the Bureau has laid down in its normal procedure the law, the draft law on the Agency for Research and Protection, which has been delivered in normal parliamentary procedure. Secondly, we would not want, too, to influence in any way the business procedure of this home. Third. There's no reason for us from any initiative today to insist that this is on the agenda. There's plenty and plenty of time to carry out normal procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1614	In view of the words spoken by the chairman of the Bureau, it might be wise to conclude the rsar, as regards the possibility of putting this item on the agenda, unless still members of the Bureau would like to participate in the debate. A respected member of the presidency, Mr. Beriz Belkić, came forward. Here you go, Mr. Belić. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1615	The Honorable Presidency, respected delegates, therefore, what Mr. Križanović said, I absolutely support and that should be enough in principle. However, here are used some words “false”, “session stream”, etc. I would like to make it clear to the members of the House of People that the Presidency is working according to the Constitution and its Rules of Procedure, and it is not necessary, when it comes to the content and manner of work and procedures in the Presidency to account for any commission of any House of Parliament, that is number one. Number two, the document we're talking about is signed by the chairman and put in the procedure. The Rules of Procedure allowed each member of the Bureau during the debate and three days in practice and in the verification of the minutes, etc. to intervene. Of course, that didn't happen, and we have this situation. I totally understand that any member of the Bureau later changes his mind and says, "This doesn't suit me," but then there are other instruments. There are MPs, there are clubs, etc. But it can't be brought in, I don't want to, and I won't let it question the legitimacy of the work, the dignity of the Presidency and use the words, I've experienced it, and that's why I'm reporting to the Constitutional and Legal Commission of the House of Representatives, on which I attended. I'm really asking you to respect the presidency's dignity. So, we've been working on the Rules of Procedure and the procedures that you're doing. As for formal-legal issues, inclusions, not including the Presidency, it did not necessarily insist. It's done its part of the job, it's now a matter of college, you guys go ahead. I wish you all the best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1616	I'm thanking you. Dear BiH presidency member Mr. Živko Radišić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1617	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, this is one of no doubt a very significant question and hence such an interest and to say and be careful. An initiative to pass such a law is as old as this Parliament may be, and in this sense, when it comes to constitutional basis, it is under that constitutional category that all other issues agreed by entities and, indeed, in the preparation of this law, a high degree of co-operation has been achieved between entities, with the BiH presidency and with some of the institutions of the international community, above all, the UN Mission. From the initiative and the first versions to this came a long way and a lot of variations. I'm really sorry to open up a debate about something that's not on the agenda, but two questions have been asked here. One is the constitutionalist of the basis, and in this respect, the Presidency has full consent to prepare and propose this law and the other is a matter of its substance, I mean, not to make a mystery out of either the Presidency or this law. That, on certain issues, indeed, there was a difference and there was a certainty in the process of making amendments, and in other words, these remarks were partly apostropheeded by Article 2 of Article 11 and Article 15 and my position on 8 of the Presidency was, in fact, the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the remarks which were applied to these three members, which were, I say, partially respected, but the matter is further procedures and arrangements. Therefore, from the presidency's point of view there is no question of constitutional basis, it does not lessen the need for the Constitutional Commission to work in the pro-lomentary procedure – the Constitutional and First Commission and the Commission in accordance with their powers. Given the kind of temperature that we want here, to say the least, we're going to be in session tomorrow at the Bureau, and I'm going to ask as a member of the Bureau to get these other details back together, but that's not at all an obstacle to putting one of these laws in the process. The second is business and formal legal, excuse me, I really don't want to engage, I'm going to say once again publicly that, indeed, after the great activities and efforts that we've made together by all the competent ministries, governments and others in entities with the international community and the Presidency, I think the conditions have been created for this law to be found in the regular procedure, but this, possibly insufficiently precise issues with Articles 2 and 11 and Article 15 here and only the Presidency will help come out of a possible blockade. I appreciate that we really need this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1618	Thank you. I think we came as soon as we can find out, and you correct me, unless it's true that there's not a single valid pronoun that this item of the agenda, that it's the point of the agenda after the reasons of the Bureau members, and that it's not appropriate to have a debate on a topic that's not proposed for the agenda and there's not going to be a agenda point. In that context, I would ask that, perhaps, the replicas that have been announced leave for discussion on the content of the law, because the law is in the procedure already and perhaps this was all and not necessary to obtain all the necessary information. In this context, I thank all those who participated in the debate, because I think the situation is clearer now. Whether there are new proposals, additions, changes to the agenda. The word came from a Mr. Turk then a gentleman, on behalf of the commission, Mr. Ilić and then Mr. Džaferović. Here you go, Mr. Turjačanin.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1619	Dear Members of the BiH Presidency, fellow delegates, representatives of the Council of Ministers, gentlemen, ladies of the media, dear guests, the text of the draft agenda, which I received in the call for today's session, differs from the draft agenda read by the chairman of the House of Peoples, so I would like to ask, if it is a matter of subsequent agreement, that a corrected agenda be delivered before the session continues, to all the delegates or delegates of this House. That's the first thing. I would also ask professional services that, because of some height of all of us sitting here, these headlines standing in front of us, not to say in these glass frames, are kind of standardized, respecting not to say the equality of both letters, because here, someone is a gentleman, someone without any marking, someone is written in such letters or such letters. I think that's the thing that should be standardised in some way, if nothing through a book of standards, that would bear those essential elements for the work of the BiH Pasrlamento. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1620	Business clarification, the agenda you got is, in line with the Rules of Procedure. The college has agreed. Why couldn't we, for example, put the agenda in place, appoint members to the joint commission of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly, because by then no law has been passed in the House of Representatives in a different text. Why couldn't we have the agenda point of a statement on the joint committee's report, because this statement was not completed and I don't think that, indeed, these issues are being violated by the Rules of Procedure and these points need to be broken due to the passing of the law today on the agenda. Mr Turjačanin pointed out what I have been since the beginning of the session, which is that the inscriptions on the benches of respected MPs - delegates are different. It says to someone that the gentleman does not write to anyone that he is a gentleman and I believe that you are all gentlemen and I promise you both in the name of the service and in the name of the College's leadership that for the next session, you will all receive identical inscriptions in which everyone will write and gentlemen and others. I must say that these differences are neither national nor in line with the letter. There is, therefore, as you see a very diverse, perhaps interesting charm who is a gentleman and who is not on the tiles and all of you are, the College tells you that you are all distinguished fellow envoys – delegates of gentlemen in this home. Here you go, Mr. Ilić. Ilić wants to address this home on behalf of the commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1621	Gentlemen of the presidency, gentlemen of the Presidency, gentlemen of the delegates, distinguished guests, at yesterday's session of the Foreign and Trade Policy Commission, the agenda points to be discussed were also discussed, which should be found at the House and should be discussed in this Committee according to the Rules of Procedure. Under point 5. The protocol on the establishment and functioning of cultural centres between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, the Commission concluded with three votes and one abstention that this item of the agenda has been abandoned from today's session, until some clarifications have been obtained, above all because this agreement has been leading since 7 February 1994 and no one knows who verified it nor what the fate of those protocols signed before Dejton. In this respect, the Commission has reached such a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1622	We were familiar with the Commission's conclusion at the College. He may refer to the debate on that agenda point and not on the agenda. I must remind you, read the Rules of Procedure, this is a binding item of the agenda, which goes into the agenda, and in the course of the debate, the House can be declared in different ways and the legitimate will of this high home to take a stand on this, so that I will ask that this debate and what is said be an integral part of the reasoning of the discusser and debate when the agenda comes. Mr. Džaferović answered the question. Mr. Genjac. Here you are, Mr. Reverend Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1623	Dear colleagues, members of the state presidency, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I really don't want to be boring, has been declassified, at first, more than 10 here for this speaker to talk about overcoming the costs of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, when the travel of delegations abroad is Wednesday and, I say, I don't want to be boring and I won't talk about it. So, about what happened, what happened, I will no longer speak for this speaker, most likely address this issue by a competent institution, such as the Office of Audit and other bodies. I want to, at the beginning of this year, overcome a conclusion that, at the very beginning of this House, one that would, inadmissible practice that took place throughout last year, be a warning and to bring things into normal flows and things to the normal procedure, in order to simply enable the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to carry out its international activity and, on the other hand, to comply with the procedures and the estimated costs in the budget. Therefore, my colleague Genjac and I, on behalf of the two of us, are going out for this pay phone here, have decided to propose that today's agenda of the House of Nations be completed with one last item, so let that be the last item of the agenda. That would be one conclusion of this home, and he can basically read it like this. First, it is up to the College of the People's House to request the opinion of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy of the House before making a decision on the travel of parliamentary delegations abroad. Under two, the Commission's opinion on foreign and trade policy concerns the necessity of travel, the number of members of the delegation, the length of stay and the guidelines for the delegation's performance. Three, this conclusion does not refer to the travel of permanent parliamentary delegations, which participate in international parliamentary assemblies or other international institutions. So this conclusion would refer only to ad-hoc formed parliamentary delegations. It cannot refer to permanent parliamentary delegations in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Central European Initiative, the OSCE, the Interparliamentary Union, because they are already formed delegations, which are going to call these bodies to meetings and meetings of these organisations – association and, of course, we as the House support such an activity and there is no need to, when it comes to the work of these delegations, intervene from this home. But last year's travel abroad was a good part, or most of it was ad-hoc travel, ad-hoc formed delegations. The college decided that. According to Article 17. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of the Peoples of the College have the power and he is in charge of initiating, coordinating, achieving an interparliamentary meeting, but he is also also in charge of the provision of Article 25. The Rules of Procedure provide for the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy to discuss issues of interparliamentary co-operation with relevant committees of parliaments of other countries, as well as issues of co-operation with international parliamentary parliaments and other international institutions. The practice so far has shown that the College has exclusively made decisions on whether to travel or not, decisions on the composition of a delegation, which is not consulted by the relevant commission, the competent Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy. If we adopt this conclusion and with regard to these ad-hoc delegations, we oblige the College to oust only the opinion of this committee, therefore, it is not at all pending the interference of the Commission's powers with the powers of the College, that the Commission should express its opinion and, ultimately, to say whether it is necessary or not necessary for this country, to say how many members of the 11 delegation are necessary and to say what it thinks. It's a commission that should monitor the country's foreign and trade policy in front of this home, to give some guidance to those people who will go there. I think we would also have a better performance of parliamentary delegations and would not come at the end of 2002 to the kind of debate in which we were at the end of 2001. That would be a proposal from my fellow Genjac and me. We've done, based on our humble knowledge and some text of the proposal conclusion. I don't claim it to be a definite text. We can make a commitment between the two of us, along with the doma Sekretarijat, to make an appropriate proposal for a conclusion, but this may at least be the basis for the debate. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1624	I thank Mr Džaferović, please stick to the time when proposing certain points of the agenda. Of course, every proposal to supplement the agenda is legitimate and will be declared by the House. The clarifications for the sake of this, although Mr. Džaferović made it clear, the divisions in the Rules of Procedure in the commission's jurisdiction and competences are very clear. In accordance with Article 17 of The College is in charge of initiating coordination and achieving interparliamentary co-operation. What are the Commission's issues are to consider the issue of reports, political issues and co-operation, and I think that coordination should continue. All travel reports must be made available to the Commission and, consequently, the Commission has the possibility and, later, the House if the Commission so requests to discuss it. However, I do not want to warn, but to clear my current position in a purely business manner and, at the same time, to specify the fact that, from how the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH operates in this parliamentary assembly and in the previous assembly of the Assembly and in no other assembly, the Commission assumes the power to designate delegations. I'd like to remind you of the experiences of the nearest neighbours, as well as other far-reaching European countries. However, every proposal is legitimate and we will respect the procedure when the proposal is made, by asking the honourable envoy Džaferović to provide me in writing, so that I can read the name of the agenda point when I declare it. For word's sake, Mr. Halid Genjac's esteemed envoy. Here you go, Mr. Genjac. I would ask you to respect the time of three minutes scheduled to explain each new item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1625	Thank you, but I would also like to ask that MPs' proposals be put to a legitimate vote, as are legitimate, without any previous comments that take quite a while. On today's agenda, we have received a proposal to find a point called the law on the use and protection of the Red Cross/Cross sign and the name of the Red Cross/Cross Society. On 20 September 2001, the Council of Ministers delivered the parliamentary procedure and the law that I set out, but also the law on the Red Cross/Brussels Society. In my view, it is illogical to first consider the law on the use of the sign and the name of the company before considering the law on the Red Cross. I don't know how that happened, but at least we need an answer. Are both laws in the commission phase at the same rate? Is it possible to put the Red Cross Act on the agenda today and the Red Cross Society, because it would be logical to first pass the Red Cross Act on the Red Cross Society, and then 12 then the Sign Protection Act. If they are not in the same commission phase, why are they not in the same commission phase to respond and indeed if it is not possible to be on the agenda of both today, and in any case I suggest that they seek to make both laws their parliamentary destiny, they have a way to bring them in parallel in the final result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1626	I thank only the explanation, the simple reason why this bill on the use of the Red Cross protection was in the procedure was because it had been procedureally taken earlier and passed certain stages. There are different opinions. There are those who explain that, on the contrary, the issue of use and protection of the sign that this is a global drinking matter in relation to society should first be considered. However, the College has taken a position to procedurally ensure that in the second reading of both laws, these laws are found, at the same time, in accordance with what Mr Genjac has proposed that the fate of these laws be considered at the same session and in order which, here we can arrange at the next session, but in any case as two points which will be well tied. With this, I think we've cleared up this position. There's no business opportunity for other laws to come to the agenda. If there are no new proposals, I suggest we approach the plea. Do we have Mr. Džaferović's text? The proposal for Džaferović's conclusion you heard the explanation I gave on behalf of the College. Who is it to include Mr. Džaferović's agenda? - Nine. Who's against it? Who's being held back? I note that Mr Džaferović's work title on interparliamentary co-operation procedures has been included as a item of the agenda – the 20th item of the agenda, in line with the request of Mr Emissary and the vote of members of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. With this agenda point, we're going to vote on the whole agenda. There's no need to read the whole agenda. Who's on the agenda? unanimously, as Mr Ibrahim Spahić announced his absence from this session due to official obligations. We approach the realization of the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. I would ask the Service to prepare the agenda as we have adopted to make it easier for the envoys – members of the House of Peoples. On the occasion of this agenda, unfortunately, only one part of the response to the envoy's question has arrived. We will certainly prepare for the next meeting of the House of Nations to review all questions in which we have not received an answer and in this context, in a certain way, ask the Council of Ministers and the Presidency to deal more responsibly with the parliamentary issues. Mr. Nikola Špirić picked up the phone. I would remind you, asking questions is also oral to three minutes and answering within three minutes, the rest can be written in writing. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1627	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished members of the Bureau, members of the Council of Ministers, esteemed guests, I asked two delegate questions at the 11th 12th session, unfortunately, I didn't get an answer to any of them. I will now repeat to the public, therefore, it is not about issues that need to be obtained some documentation to give a clear answer. I have reason to believe that there are political reasons for not giving answers. I asked a question at the 11th session. When will the Council of Ministers of BiH and the BiH Presidency decide on a new schedule of different agencies at BiH level, how would it show that the concept of decentralisation of BiH is developing? What is the national structure of the BiH institutions? I think all you need here is a good will to give an answer. You don't need any agreement, no agreement, but a simple report that we have to deliver. Also, I asked a question at the 12th session. If a member of the Bureau or of the Council ofmin is able to provide, on his own, answers on behalf of the body representing, if it is known that any decision by the Bureau requires a consensus, i.e. a common position of decisions or conclusions. We have practice so far, that in collective bodies individuals have given an interpretation, or today when determining the agenda they had, they have had my position at the College that the Presidency insists explicitly on being a part of the agenda and today you have seen people say, you know we don't insist. I ask you, therefore, that we have a clear answer and that we stick to the Rules of Procedure and for today's session I have three delegate questions. I suppose their fate will be the same as these, but here I want to set them up. First question. Why has there not been a report on the preventative audit of the BiH Ministry of Treasury, which was requested by the House of Peoples at its 9th session since 1.10.2001. Does that mean there's political resistance in this kind of audit or is there something else? That was the precise conclusion of this home. So, five months have passed since that conclusion, that we have no information whatsoever. Second question. Who, on the basis of which decisions and when he made the sale of gold, which BiH has contributed under the Agreement on Ex-SFRJ Sucession Issues. That gold was sold. The funds are devalued, they stand frozen, I think it's part of the damage for BiH, but we need to delegates and MPs to know who's on the basis and what decisions the realisation of the job has made. Third question. The BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, the conclusion of the 4th session of the House of Peoples held on 23.5.2001, requested that a list of naturalised citizens of BiH be delivered to the House of Peoples. Why are there still no reports, or lists, why hasn't the commission finished and delivered the House to the People? All I care about is whether it's written or oral. I will provide these questions in writing. So if there's no answer today, there may be an answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1628	Okay. The envoy requested an answer in writing. I would ask all delegates – the envoys, of course, no one can take away the right to ask the question before, but I warn you that it would take a huge amount of time and so 14 that we have in a certain way agreed that we will present all the questions that have not arrived at the next session of this house. I will remind you that we have asked for business questions to be asked in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in order to have an adequate and efficient work of this item of the agenda, it meant that earlier submissions in writing of questions, in order to be asked by the Council of Minsitarians, or a representative from whom an answer to the oral reply is requested if the envoy so requests and I would call you again to respect the Rules of Procedure in that context. Mr Ibrahim Spahić answered the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1629	Mr. Chairman, members of the Presidency, the guests, I would like to take advantage of the exceptional opportunity8 that all three members of the Bureau present at today's session and to say by my conviction it would be very important now to repeat the question I have provided in writing, formulated both to the Presidency and to other institutions. The first question, it bears the name Sarajevo, 4.1.2002. in the Service probably, so they can recognize it, they delivered to me that it is so that it is formally legally filled with the basis for an oral question. Now let me say which one is that. The BiH presidency with the signing of the BiH presidency, Mr Križanović, sent a letter last year to the Council of Ministers on the resolution of the status of institutions established by the RBiH, including the National University Library and other institutions, not to list everything now. We all know what the number of institutions is and what these are the institutions that the BiH Parliament then adopted in the Socialist Republic of BiH and the National RBiH and the Republic of BiH and Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to these institutions. Given that from Dayton to today, it has been the seventh year, the issue of the status of these institutions is being raised. The issue concerns the Council of Ministers, as the presidency asked the Council of Ministers to come up with a bill of law or with a proposal for a solution to the status of these institutions. But with the presence of all three members of the presidency, it is important to repeat this issue, because the presidency has shown its responsibility under the Dayton Peace Agreement that all institutions that have the legal status resolved by the BiH state institutions, until otherwise resolved, have a proper status in BiH. This appropriate status in BiH does not mean that it is possible at all, e.g. to bring down institutions that are of particular state interest, such as the BiH Earth Museum, to take such an example, a classical one, which this parliament exploited as the Council of Ministers, as well as the Presidency several years after Dejton, almost until '98 seems to me. It also created the obligations of this parliament, the Presidency and the Council of Ministers towards the institution. It is unacceptable for the Presidency to ask the Government to respond to this status to the vijeće, that life goes on, that no one is dealing with this problem for years and that there is simply no chance that anyone will give an answer to those institutions that are concerned, formal official either the BiH Council of Ministers or any third institution, which is responsible for this, in this case I mean the Presidency. Because this presidency officially got, as far as I know 15 days ago, an account of several hundred thousand marks to use the services of the BiH Earth Museum. I must say that I have participated on several occasions in various projects concerning the status of these institutions and, above all, I am fully responsible, because I have also been asked by representatives of the various institutions to address Parliament and to ask that all three levels of government, therefore, both the Presidency and the Council of Ministers and Parliament sit down and make appropriate decisions, proposals and laws and put them in the process of this solution. To do this work, it takes months and months of patient work. I need to talk to you. It's necessary.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1630	I'd like to beg you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1631	I would ask you, since it is the only opportunity for these institutions to respond in this way, since there is no way to even put them on the agenda. There's no way we can do anything. I just wanted to take the opportunity to ask in the context of the delegation issue, I put it in writing, that the Council of Ministers, indeed, be bound by the Presidency and Parliament, according to these institutions and to the public that I do not paraphrasise things from insects to... what needs to be protected, but what happens to institutions in which cultural wealth and heritage is and, indeed, an exceptional viracity not for every citizen of BiH, but for every resident of the planet of the Earth, it is a pity that we act as if we have no idea what this is about. There's no such thing as a dinar for these institutions in Budget either, as if it doesn't exist. It's swimming in the air.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1632	Mr. Spahić, you've had a chance to argue.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1633	I have taken advantage of my opportunity and it has been a great pleasure and I would ask the Council of Ministers, no matter how weak it is to have a good scratch on the head and to answer this matter urgently.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1634	I'm really going to be forced to use my business powers. There's no reason for you to use every item of the agenda to solve your motives, to have a break for anyone you say. Members of the Bureau, members of the Council of Ministers are very transparent and ready to listen to you, and possibly if you want an effect to the public you can call a press conference, but do not use this item of the agenda for something that does not fall under this item of the agenda. I also thank you for the good intentions of the distinguished envoy, Mr Ibrahim Spahić. Is anyone else answering the parliamentary question? 16
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1635	Word has the chairman, Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1636	On the basis of Article 117. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, I am asking the next parliamentary - envoy question to the BiH Council of Ministers. Did the Helsinki Committee on Human Rights claim that a series of human rights violations occurred, including, among other things, that SFOR members were unauthorized to bring BiH citizens in and interrogate them and apply measures that could be taken under inhumane, humiliating treatment, according to European standards. That BiH authorities illegally seized BH citizenship of 94 citizens. That deportations and extraditions have been made to countries where there is a death penalty or a delivery of citizens threaten to die as a result of torture which is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, which has priority in domestic law over all other laws, that local police have detained citizens without it being clear to the police, cantonal, federal or special units. Namely, the police had no prominent accreditation or introduced themselves during their detention. That the APTF international police had attended some illegal deportations and extraditions, which involved in breaking the law rather than guaranteeing its respect. On 16.1.2002, Mr. Srđan Dizdarević, president of the Helsinki Committee on Human Rights, wrote me a letter stating that a number of human rights violations had occurred in the course of an anti-terrorism campaign, and that there is indications that this practice will continue and continue in the future. If these allegations are correct, it is indeed about drastic violations of human rights which are done inconceivable to BiH's international reputation and which produce legal uncertainty for all BiH citizens. The fight against terrorism is certainly one of the most important priorities of BiH institutions, which has reached a general consensus of political entities, including the parliamentary assembly, and which enjoys the plebiscite support of citizens. The determinations of BiH institutions and citizens are... one of the greatest halls of the modern world, it implies and should entail the exclusive and consistent respect of the Constitution, applicable laws and international conventions on human rights. Delegate Sejfudin Tokić. The question has been asked and an answer in writing is sought. Is there any more envoys - delegates who, Mr. Genjac? Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1637	Within this agenda point, I have one intervention. We have received an interpretation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the People's House of Parliament on the issue of parliamentary matters, which stated a few points of the Rules of Procedure correctly. However, there are also points that are not in the Rules of Procedure, such as that issues must be delivered to the chairman of the House of People before the oral statement, etc. This is nowhere in the Rules of Procedure and this has 17 tendencies of censoring the activities of MPs and the inability of MPs, in the manner of selecting questions that MPs are asking after a pay phone. That's one thing. I would ask the College to reconsider this interpretation and to correct the interpretation. One oral question. If any of the Council of Ministers are present to respond here. The extent to which violations of rights and human freedoms are related to arrests and extraditions, to what extent and extent are linked to the claims made by the leader of our delegation in the Council of Europe that the earlier chairman of the Presidency took pictures with Bin Laden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1638	According to article 118, it's clear. The questions are asked to the chairman in writing. The submission shall contain a statement, whether the envoy requests an oral response at a session or a written reply and the essence of this business provision, intended to provide, if requested orally, the presence of the person who may give the oral response in a specific way. And as far as censorship is concerned, it's not going to be a policy either of this college or of me as chairman or of the House, but merely of providing an adequate response. Since there is no need to conduct the debate and since it is exclusive to interpret the Poslovnfik of Procedure of the College, if there are further questions, I would ask you. In the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, one particular fact is that it is impossible and that no question should be asked amongst the MPs, because I must tell you that in the election campaign in which we are going in this situation, this House, and especially delegates – the envoys, MPs from two homes, have found themselves in a situation to break up only about each other. I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.2. Records 10, 11, 12 and 13 sessions We will first consider whether there are objections to the minutes of the 10th session. Who's answering for a word? Niko. We can adopt the minutes from the 10th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Who's in? Do you mind? 14 envoys voted yes. Which means everyone in the O.R. is present. It's the 11th-session log. Is anyone answering for a word? No one. Who's for the record? Do you mind? 13 voted for -14 here is Mr. Spahić's late vote. Unanimity. It's a 12th-session record. Does anyone have a word to ask? The word asks for Mr. Genjac and then, as I understand it, so does Mr. Ilić. Here you go. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1639	Dear colleagues, Article 66. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House, paragraph 2, states that the envoy may request that his complaint concerning a possible violation of the BiH Constitution or of this MP be brought into the penitentiary. At the 12th session, when it was discussed the Law on concessions and on the treatment of our objection to the threat of vital national interest, Mr Džaferović and I argued that it was a harsh violation of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. We ask that, in accordance with that article, that our observations be made in the minutes. Furthermore, during the adoption of the amendments to the Consumer Protection Act in BiH, we also remarked that the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of this House were severely violated during the vote count and that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure were severely violated. We have remained in the minority, and we still believe that it is a grave violation of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and we ask that it be in accordance with Article 66(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples introduce our remarks into the Rules of Procedure for further steps and history.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1640	I'm thanking you. You didn't ask for it at the session itself, and you called for this Rules of Procedure. However, there is no problem, given that such a course of the session was, I repeat that the component of the minutes is a complete record of the session, but I think we can accept these remarks and be introduced as observations and opinions of the two envoys, but it works before the promotions, when something insists on this member during the debate should be said immediately, because there is no reason not to enter, all of which the individual delegate – the envoy wants to enter as an integral part of the minutes. Mr. Ilić answered. We're talking about the 12th session.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1641	It is completely irrelevant, Mr. President, since my remarks are of general nature, I could put it on any of these minutes, so here is the 14th session, and there are always the same problems, and I think it would be necessary for the dom sekretarijat to warn those who write the minutes, that the pens are properly written in language, correctly grammatically, spellingly and to respect all three languages and all three letters, or two letters. So, really, it's inappropriate for the Cyrillic text to show up, to mix up the c and c where the c is supposed to be, where it should be d and d, etc. I'm asking you, I'm talking, I'm hoping in a perfectly correct language, I've always had a good grade in Serbian, and I'd like it to be spelled properly. We also agreed, that the chairman of the House's committee, therefore, that in that language and letter to which that member belongs, it is written in that language and in that letter, and then we will achieve full equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1642	Thank you. I think this suggestion can only be accepted, just one explanation. We don't have technical capabilities when we transfer, but I would suggest 19 that Jadranko explain in the course of the session to Mr. Ilić, but certainly this suggestion stands. The Assembly must be technically trained to provide all these assumptions. Can we approach the plea? Who is in favour of these accepted remarks by Mr. Džaferović? Unanimity. It's the 13th session. Is there anyone to answer for? There isn't. Who's in favor of adopting the minutes from the 13th session? Unanimity. I realize we've exhausted the debate on the second item of the agenda, and it's about the 10.11, 12 and 13 sessions. Ad.3. The appointment of members for the joint commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to reach an agreement on the same tariff text of the Proposal for a College to this home, which you can amend, is complemented. Three members of the commission are elected, yes, Mr. Novaković, Mr. Jusufović and Mr. Ivanković. Any new suggestions? Any objections to that proposal? Can we accept this composition of the committee for alignment with the section of the delegation, the commission from the Representative's House. Who's in? Is anyone against it? It's nobody. The composition of the Commission, the joint commission of both homes, was unanimously accepted to reach an agreement on the same customs tariff text. Ad.4. Declaration on the Joint Commission Report of both homes on the conclusion of an agreement on the single text of the Law on Industrial Property in BiH Is there a need for any of the members of the Commission to appear? You've received a written report. Is anyone looking for an additional explanation? If not, please join the statement on the Joint Commission's report, which has reached agreement on the text. Who's in favor of accepting this report? Do you mind? Anybody got any abstentions? With 3 votes abstentioned, I realise that the accepted and secured majority and entity majority are needed to accept this report and thus defacto the BiH Industrial Property Act. Ad.5. Declaration on the examination of Article 100 Polovniki Home of the People, the law on the purpose of using the property that BiH receives under the Agreement on Ex-SFRJ Sucession Issues – Proposer Ivo Divković I would ask, you know, that, according to the procedure, we are first considering the need for a procedure under Article 100 and in this context I would ask Mr. Ivo 20 Divković to explain the need for this procedure and then explain the motivation of the proposal of his law. Here you go, Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1643	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, members of the Presidency and the Council of Ministers, who are really very few here. Dear fellow delegates, I am, using the right of the envoys referred to in Article 76. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House, requested that the current session of this House be included in the discussion of the law on the purpose and use of property, which BiH receives under the Agreement on the SFRJ Sucession, at a high level of urgency, i.e. in accordance with Article 100. The business of this house. The reasons for such a request, directed towards the College and this home, are, in fact, the first thing that it is about the law, which, by adopting, there is an exceptional interest in the state structures of BiH, entity structures in both BH entities, all budgetary users who are able to reach the intended funds through this law, in particular the category of socially endangered and pensioners. I appreciate very important that, before you, the proposed text of the law, from the previously presented text, differs only from Article 11 which brings the Parliamentary Assembly into office as a law enforcement entity, from all those to whom the funds will be transferred, in accordance with this law, which was a requirement of a single number, primarily of Serbian delegates of this House, when considering this law, proposed by the Council of Ministers, which has not received support in this House. Thus, the proposal met with the demands of a number of delegates at home, without prejudice to the other elements of the law, which were also agreed on by the Council of Ministers, agreed with the entity authorities in both BH entities and which, I consider particularly important, were adopted at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, which is why the parliamentarians of this House expressed full responsibility, I would say for the functioning of BiH institutions. You today, therefore, have a bill that includes an important requirement for this home, which, if accepted, has a realistic chance, a realistic chance of being supported by the BiH House of Representatives, because the basics only fix the text of the laws they have already adopted, and there are no important reasons not to support this text of the law. Dear colleagues, aware of the fact that any significant intervention in the law would question already agreed positive views, both the Council of Minsitarians and the Entity Governments and the House of Representatives, which would call into question, the fact that the paralysis of the functions of certain segments of the BiH state and entity, without the adoption of this law and the exceptional interests of the public for its adoption, respecting and also the fact that the content is close to the text of the law that was already in this House, and you know that it is formulated in a simple and relatively short manner, which requires Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, I request that this law be declared in accordance with Article 100. The rules of procedure of this house and thus we are decisively contributing to the more efficient functioning of all the institutions of the system in BiH in the coming period. Thank you very much. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1644	I thank the honourable envoy to Mr. Ivo Divković. I remind you, Ivo Divković has passed a law on the purpose of using the property that BiH receives under the Agreement on the Ex-SFRJ Sucession Agreement with the requirement to consider it under Article 100. The business of the House of the Peoples and first to discuss whether the law will be considered in accordance with Article 100. The adoption of such a procedure has been prevented from proposing amendments and a defacto debate on the law would have led to an argument for its acceptance and its refusal. Please lead the debate in that context. I'm opening a debate on whether the law will be considered by Article 100. Who answers the word. You've heard the proposal's explanation for this procedure. Who's answering for a word? Here's a word from Mr. Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1645	The bill by Mr. Divković was accepted into the Parliamentary Assembly on 28.12. 27.12. last year, Mr. Džaferović and I, as delegates in this house, made a request for a meeting of the House of Nations to be called, to consider this law, starting with the importance of this law and a series of issues related to the adoption of this law, which Mr. Divković spoke of in more detail. We were aware of the fact, of course, that it takes five delegates for the initiative to call a session, however, according to the Rules of Procedure, there is a provision that the chairman of the House of Nations may call an emergency session of the House of Peoples by assessment. We had information that the Council of Ministers was preparing a law equivalent to Mr. Divković's proposal and that law was delivered in the procedure, was subsequently withdrawn. Because Mr. Divković is the day after this law. In view of all this and our request, which has previously been chronically followed, it can be considered that we, as delegates, are also Mr Džaferović and I and we are fully standing and justify the need for this law to be considered by an emergency procedure at 100. The Rules of Procedure in the House of Peoples and we will support this proposal, but I would ask, indeed, that the public be answered, why it is only today that this law is being considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1646	Is anyone else answering for word? Mr. Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1647	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished delegates, esteemed members of the Bureau, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the media. I will, of course, remind a little of everything that followed the adoption and not the adoption of the law on the means of succession. You know that I was the proposing three amendments, which no one felt the need to consider either adopting or saying that they had neither received nor received, nor the Council of Ministers felt the need to make a statement about the amendments at all. Unfortunately, the result of such work by the Council of Ministers as a proposing has led to the fact that the law did not go through in the parliamentary procedure and, particularly interesting, what happened afterwards. I must tell you 22 that I have had more conversations with the representatives of the international community regarding the law on the means of succession than with fellow parliamentarians and the Council of Ministers. I have to have no conversation with anyone. How come one of the Council of Ministers loses the need for urgency? What's the need to withdraw the law? Instead of the Council of Ministers saying, Mr Špirić or this or that, this amendment may be incorporated into the law, this one cannot for these and those reasons. There is no one here who is not ready to make good arguments by adopting the law. But, ladies and gentlemen, the Council of Ministers can't, in fact, try to search for bypass mechanisms to offer the same law that didn't pass. It's a punishment for this country. As possible, if there is a conclusion of the BiH presidency, in which the means of succession cannot go to the budget, so I ask to say whether there is such a conclusion or not in the draft law. I highly appreciate Mr. Divković's initiative. It's about a man who was with me an MP in the Representative Council. By appreciation and his noble intent, but ladies and gentlemen, have we come to a situation where we lead delegates on principle to take or leave. Is that the care of parliamentarianism? Why does the Council of Ministers put us in such a situation at all, and it is not true that the essence is respected, and it is not true that it is agreed on at the entity level, but here nobody wants to speak honestly, but that I would not enter into the essence of the law, I will enter when allowed as a delegate to have the right to the story of the essence. So, then I'm going to go into the debate and say why I'm standing in the position of this amendment. The Council of Ministers can tell me, they can't do it for those and those reasons. So the reasons must be valid. The Council of Ministers cannot keep quiet to withdraw the law and manipulate the public of BiH that someone is not taking care of the pensioners about this and that without the pensioners of the disabled and the rest standing there. You know, if such a formulation were offered in any European serious parliament, that would be the reason for changing the government or the council of ministers. What does the rest mean? How many pensions, how many disabilityes, how many left? Is that what's left 100%? How is it possible that such a formulation is even offered a number of other things, but when I get a chance to talk about the essence? So, esteeming everything Mr. Divković did, I'm not ready to plead. If we had a brief procedure regarding the law offered by the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers had a chance to offer a law, an innovative law under a shortened procedure, by an urgent procedure. But he had to consider amendments to keep the public informed about why he respected something, why he didn't respect something. It was such an announcement in the media. I was pleased when the chairman of the Council of Ministers said: "Here we will, as the Council of Ministers, adopt an amendment relating to parliamentary control and see if those seeking control are ready to adopt it." And behold a wonderful miracle the Council of Minsitarians withdraws its law, tries through delegates to, with minimal correction, return the old law. Such games should not be played by the Council of Ministers towards us. We are a serious parliamentary home, such as the House of Representatives and the Council of Representatives, and it is not true that it is agreed there in the Representative's Council, but it is serious differences and now a dilemma is being put in place, if there are serious corrections here, whether the other House will react in the way it has reacted because items that are not agreed on have been incorporated. I therefore ask that only the public of BiH be properly informed. There's no one serious in this country who cares about going through a good legal project. But I don't get to serve to cover the different agreements in which he says everything we've agreed and no one's ready to sign what he's agreed on. 23 If an agreement has been reached to give the funds on a credit basis, I ask that the signatories of those who have reached the agreement be signed. What's wrong with that? What's wrong? I have information that this has not been achieved and I beg you, therefore, I am not so that we delegates offer laws by procedure take or leave. I will plead against this procedure for the reasons I have stated. It must be allowed to delegates - MPs to have the right to amendments, to come up with the best legal solution with one debate, in a tolerated Roma. Please, no one was getting involved with the essence of the law and the amendment. Everyone was talking about delegates, whether they were Srbin, whether they were tall, whether they were cooperative, whether they were not operational. I say, I want to talk about the law. When it comes to the agenda, the behaviour of Nikola Špirić or Sejfudin Tokić or Ibro Spahić or Goran Turjačanin, then we will talk about what we have about each other. When it comes to the point of the law, we need to talk about the law and the amendments. I see it so, I understand my parliamentary obligation as a delegate. So, I'm clear, which is why I won't support the reasoning of urgency by article 100 without the right to amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1648	Who continues to answer the word of the envoy – delegates? Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1649	Dear members of the Bureau, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, fellow delegates, I would only like to inform this House that, following the adoption of Mr Divković's bill, I have referred Mr Divkovic to a specific suggestion with a request if he can make suggestions in the law and improve the text, so that the law is acceptable and that we can then decide on him with a greater opportunity to be accepted. Of course, I also want to express my reserve in a way that the draft laws by the delegates are considered by an urgent procedure, regardless of the business possibility, because this way we would indeed do not only derrogation of individual delegates, but also of this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1650	Mr. Sejfudin Tokić, for his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1651	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished fellow envoys - delegates of this high home, since it was also a request for an esteemed fellow Genjac to explain something about the procedure but in public too often the issues of procedure appear, I would like to inform you on behalf of the College of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH that the College of the House of Nations has a unanimous, absolute consensus that the procedure does not stop, in any procedure, any of the legal acts and that everything else is speculation. All that's left is speculation. Mr. Genjac and Mr. Džaferović made a 27th request for an extraordinary session at the time when it was protocold in the House of Peoples 24 of the Parliamentary Assembly was not a single law on succession in the procedure nor was there one draft law. We held our resources with full communication with the Council of Institutors when he delivered the Proposal for a Law on Sucession, with a view to the need to insist on an extraordinary session, as well as to the presidents of all delegations and all three peoples in this House. With the willingness to hold a session and I remind you, it is business-clear that the absence and even the attempt to disable it if none of the chairmans can block the work of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, the procedure has provided that the session can be called. There has been no commercially relevant request for the extraordinary session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and when I say relevant, I believe it requires five delegates or that it requires one of the legislators. As far as Mr. Ivo Divković's law itself is concerned, I don't want to comment now. The Council of Ministers Act, it's just that he's not in the process. The Council of Ministers has withdrawn its law on succession and we are having a debate today on Mr. Divković's procedure. Mr. Divković submitted his draft law on 28.12. with a request for it to be considered as soon as possible in the short procedure. The shortest procedure of business with the letter he has set is 24 days, for the College to decide to shorten all deadlines for 24 days. Mr. Divković proposed the following text of the law to be considered by the emergency procedure under Article 100 and on the same day I consulted Mr. Divković and asked whether he felt that an emergency session should be scheduled on the eighth or not, I don't know which date. Mr. Divković said he estimated that this should go as a proposal for a regular session by procedure 100. Why he asked for this procedure, the esteemed envoys here had the opportunity to hear it. I am saying this for a reason that this high house should be a home where arguments will be discussed on the law and where it is normal for some to accept certain legal projects and some do not accept and that there should be no labelling of envoys and delegates in this house, especially not by those who had an earlier parliamentary majority, so they did not adopt this number of laws for the entire poseiton period. In that context, as chairman, I will stand in the protection of the legitimacy of this high house. I'm going to sazvati an emergency session every time there's an authorised proposing for that extraordinary session, and I'm never going to call an emergency session, although I have a chance that's why we're going to show we don't have a quorum. For me, for the College, it would be devastating if we couldn't decide for procedural reasons not to attend the quorum. As for my position on this law and the speculation that appeared in public, my view of the law is clearly presented in the first debate on the law. All means of succession, in my personal opinion, should go into development, employment, job creation, investment, the promotion of excessive agricultural production and support for the export of our companies. If we get that, then there'll be money for the pensioners, then there'll be money to solve the social structure. However, this is my very personal position and I only mentioned it because there have been various speculations, related to the procedure and... this in response to the question, all the documentation on the dates when it arrived, and even if you want phone conversations with Mr. Novaković, Mr. Jusufović, Mr. Divković, you can get, this is what the notes are going on, but I appeal to you, 25 it is important that we discuss content, essence and call again all the envoys in this house, to take a good look at what we lose if we do not adopt this bill today and what we get if we adopt it or vice versa. In that context, I think we should speak with the strength of the argument, along with my own, mildly said surprise that the Council of Ministers gave up its proposal. Mr. Džafeorvić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1653	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to fit into the time of the replica provided for by the Rules of Procedure. You mentioned me once in your discussion today, Mr. Tokić. It was once in an indirect sense of the word. First this second one. You were probably alluding to me, to Dr Genjac when you said that those who had the parliamentary majority of Dayton so far did not bring to date that more laws were passed for this period from 2001 to 2001, but by those who had the parliamentary majority from Dayton to 2001. Mr. Tokić's laws as you have passed and for which you have given consent could have been passed by such laws much, much more in the earlier period. It could have been long, long before the holiday law could have been passed, for example. in which the 25th of November will be only the day of Antifascism, not the day of ZAVNOBIH, or the day of statehood. So much about the law and I recommend that when you boast about the number of laws passed, you open the Official Messenger of Bosnia and Herzegovina and tell us how many laws have been published in the Official Messenger of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As a delegate and as a citizen of this country, I would be happy that there are many more of them than you say, and unfortunately there are none in the number that you speak in your public statements. As for that direct reference to the Sucession Act, it's true that Mr. Genjac and I are 27. The 12th request for an emergency session, and it is true that we were aware and that we knew that according to the Rules of Procedure, two people cannot demand it, but that it is the right of five people. It is also true that the 27th law has not arrived in parliamentary procedure. But it is also true that the 27.12. law in this text as proposed by Mr. Divković by the Council of Ministers was adopted at the session and immediately after we heard about this detail, so the text of the bill was re-established, we asked for an extraordinary session, estimating that this issue is extremely important for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'll finish up, don't interrupt, please, because I know what you're getting ready for. So it doesn't stand, and it's also true that you as chairman have the opportunity to call an emergency session in such situations and we've only done this. After learning that the law was laid down by the Council of Ministers, we appealed to you as chairman of the House to exercise your business rights and call for an extraordinary session. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1654	I thank you, without the need for additional replicas, it is logical that I listen to a different council of ministers as a proposing than Mr. Džaferović and 26 Genjac. And as for the very number of laws I would just say I didn't adopt the law, but this tall home and I'm proud of all the laws, including the holiday law. It is a law that has been promoted in BiH legislation for the first time in the holidays of ZAVNOBiH as a state holiday. I wouldn't want to speculate, just one explanation. The Official Journal did not disclose all these 41 laws because the House of Representatives did not adopt those laws. But this also shows the quality of the work of this home that used to be a place where laws were prevented from being passed by the House of Representatives, and now it is the House that precedes the adoption of the law. Mr. Šimić came forward for his word. Here's my colleague Šimić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1655	Dear colleagues, members of the presidency, Council of Ministers, honored guests, first one apology, I traveled yesterday, it was cold, so if my throat serves no one. Please, I would really ask this high house not to return to the replicas of past laws, as we have adopted, etc. that we do not lose our energy knowingly or unconsciously. It would be very dangerous if it were conscious, to try to cover the importance of the issues we are currently discussing. I think it's an extremely important law, and I think it's about the extremely important days that have passed and we haven't passed this law and the extremely critical days that will go by if we don't set ourselves up under this law. I also have to say that I was surprised and sad that we didn't do it at our December session. I also have to say that I do not share the opinion of my colleagues in the College that the funds of the succession have not gone away, or that, as proposed by this law, they will not go into development. We have heard this very argumentably from the Minister of the Treasury and from other debates at the last session of ours at which we have not passed this law and I ask that the public to whom we are all calling not be buried again, and I do not ask that this be discussed again, but these funds are being channeled to the extent to which this country can do so. That's what I wanted to say before. The following is purely formalised, I support Mr. Divković's proposal to consider the proposal under Rule 100 of our Rules of Procedure. His explanation was such that he said about being a thing all he had to say. I think we'd be wasting our time if, I repeat that argument that's inconceivable. It's also about the economic and political and social aspects of the law's need and we here obviously, I will now be free to say a very large thing we express different political views, and we do not see the country's interest free from personal, group and political interests. Thirdly, the predstavnički of Representatives passed the law that we refused last time and Mr. Divković's attempt to please, I think it is very important that what I am about to say satisfy the essence of the amendments that fellow Špirić and the Club of Serbian delegates had supported. The essence of this was Parliament's control and we have a proposal for this law. All the logical exercises in that field I declare logical and political exercises, because I cannot maintain professional or any criticism. Of course, I'm aware I'm speaking pretty hard, but what we can do is situation 27. The public that we are all calling for most of the time is said behind this pay phone, for the sake of the public, I will now say that and so this parliament cannot be put in a position to etc. adoption without amendments without votes, etc. I think that the public any, and our fragmented and frustrated public to a good extent and our merit would not have lost anything if he knew not all these difficult ways that we come to law and consent. It would be good if he had the help of our work to the public. In public, I mean citizens, people, entities, whatever you want, you know what the public is. So let's help that public. It's helpful to accept this bill this time, to pass this law, and I'm not going to abuse the public and the pensioners now and say what's waiting for us to adopt this law. Once again, I underline that what we rejected this law last time with Mr. Divković's proposal, I would say was completely replaced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1656	I'm thanking you. It's very difficult to separate the procedure from the content debate. I remind you, then, that we'll discuss it first by procedure, then the content, and then we'll have the opportunity to talk about it. The word came from Mr. Turjačanin. However, if the proposer possibly asks for a priority word, I don't think Mr. Turjačanin will be angry. If you'd like to, or perhaps eventually, you'd like to give your word. Here you go, Mr. Divković. Proposer of the law, Ambassador Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1657	Dear colleagues, I'd just like to clarify some of the things I've heard in the discussions so far. First of all, we are here discussing a bill that I am as an envoy in accordance with Article 76. Rules of Procedure proposed. The debate on what the Council of Ministers did or did not work, why it withdrew, gave or did not give the law, you can ask the Council of Ministers. Although I personally think it's completely formal stuff. In my view, and relevantly, who is the legislator, the essence and meaning of the law is important. And I would ask you really collegiately if we thought about it that way. I really thank Mr Novaković, who made certain remarks and suggestions which were comments and suggestions in his opinion that should have been corrected, etc. application of some things in the law. I couldn't respect them for the reason I listed there, which is that I asked not to change the essence and meaning of the law for the reason I referred to again in the introduction. And don't think I'm not here since yesterday, I'm not a Parliamentarian or the last two or four, but many more years since this country exists and nobody can play with me or the Council of Ministers, or any individual, etc. so that these formations that the Council of Ministers is playing with some detours etc. I think they're more malicious than they contribute to, I'd say, one relevant decision on the law. One more thing to explain, it was a matter of emergency session. It is true that the chairman asked me for an extraordinary session, indeed, because I submitted the 7th request to go according to article 100, and I did not insist on an extraordinary session because 28 were now current holidays in Republika Srpska, the Serbian people as a whole. It was Christmas, New Year's, etc. And it wouldn't be, there wouldn't be any space, especially until today, maybe two days earlier to hold this extraordinary session, and I thought there was really no reason to hold an extraordinary session. And a third thing. In this law, I didn't mention it at first in the text that was in my possession. There is one said that it would also be very important to change the text of the law on the draft law which was by the Council of Ministers who also came after the proposal seems to me exactly to be Mr Špirić of Republika Srpska, which is to allocate funds to entities and not to the budget, not directly to the budget. This creates the possibility that entities, meaning this through funds, are so placed in pensions, etc. So the use of funds is wider than it was in the original proposal. I didn't do it at the beginning. I thought you all had a chance to read the law, etc. You could see for yourself. That's how much I appreciate it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1658	I thank Mr. Divković. Replica, i.e. the correction of Mr. Novaković's quote, then the discussion of Mr. Turjačanin and please sign up for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1659	I must say that the suggestions that I have proposed do not change the essence of the law in any case and I do not think that for that reason they could not be followed and included in the text. I'll pročitati my vision of Article 11. It's parliamentary control. The Council of Ministers will submit to the Parliamentary Assembly at the beginning of each year for the adoption of the programme of use of these funds, and report on its implementation to the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina six months. So, I can't agree with the motionary, I'm talking about the incorrect assumption that this suggestion has changed the essence. She hasn't changed, and I think it should have been a good will from the promoter to appreciate this and allow this job to end. I don't think it's too late for that good will if the promoter has it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1660	I would remind you so. We're discussing a procedure per article 100, and maybe we should discuss whether or not we should accept this procedure. And there will be a later discussion of the content if this one is, of course, if the 100th procedure is accepted. There are no amendments, but with statements, in principle, arguments for and against the law, and if you please, Mr. Turjačanin. Turjačanin and Jusufović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1661	Dear colleagues, gentlemen delegates, envoys. First of all, I'd, I think, ask the chairman that the soufflés from the places where we sit that no longer know who the discussion is, who goes out for this pay phone, be priorities on the way out. I think things might have gone well. In some ways, I am more pleased to discuss the proposal for a law passed by a delegate or an envoy to me than to discuss the draft law passed by the Council of Ministers. Because that 29 is the final return of essence to a parliament that is a legislative authority, ultimately a super-forming legislative executive in the whole time that we have been trying all along to raise this tone so that I do not at all dispute that Mr Divković's proposal is no less valuable and valid than the Council of Ministers' proposal, even if I do not say that there is one and more quality parliamentary practice in the work of this home. I also appreciate Mr. Divković's reasons for the procedure perhaps for urgency etc. A law project like this. Counting on the fact that in previous discussions, we have acted on a sufficient number of amendments, etc. in the correction of the content of this law in its proposal. However, I don't want to be able to accept or give up here a little bit sooner or later, we're dealing with things over our knees. So here we still have very high-quality initiatives coming from the Club of Serbian MPs, which do not significantly change the essence of the proposed legal text, and at the same time we have a proposal that is offered by emergency procedure, where we as others cannot act as an amendment when it comes. So we have a promoter who's still not to say before the emergency statement here if there's a certain willingness and one correct co-operation, I think there can be a more qualitative solution. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1662	Mr. Jusufović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1663	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, respected guests, I think it's working, that the debate begins in a certain way in the wrong direction. Two things need to be developed here, and I'm afraid if it continues this way that we'll return to that debate we had for the first time on the distribution proposal, or the criteria for the distribution of the funds of the succession. I don't see any reason why some of you mention what you were saying, or what attitudes you had last time. I won't say it again. I had an overly hard-assed view that this law as proposed did not appeal to me for reasons similar to that of some differences which was unmistakablely chaired by Mr. Tokić, but it does not matter. I also don't see any reason or particular need for you to be here, unless you want for the sake of the public and some points, you better say a diary that I don't think you're going to be holding for a long time, that you're going to hold those points, which is going to bring up the pensioners again whether they're going to receive or not this... I ask you to make it clear to me exactly where you said it would be divided into pensioners, although in principle I believe that no single dinar should have been spent on liquid consumption. If you want points for pensioners, tell them exactly where they say they'll get those funds. Please vote for procedures. This time, no matter what I think, on my understanding of the law, on the criteria, I vote for the procedure, and I think we really need it, so if we reopen the debate then let's discuss it. So I agree with the initiative as it was filed for the procedure. And to make it easier let's vote on procedures. We'll see what happens after that. Then let's reopen the debate and eventually see if there are any new moments we didn't have in mind last time. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1664	Minister Domazet called for his word. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1665	Mr. Chairman, esteemed working presidency, respected members of the Bureau, gentlemen of the MPs, colleagues from the Council of Ministers. I should like to inform you that yesterday the Council of Ministers discussed the initiative of envoys Mr. Divković and concluded that this initiative could be supported, while also discussing the proposals made in Mr. Novaković's letter. In this sense, the Council of Ministers held views that this provision concerning the credit base, which seems to be very important in order to finally adopt this law, should in some way be explained. You know that the first version of the law was addressed to the House of Representatives by the Council of Ministers, that it did not contain that provision. This provision was included as a result of a decision at the House of Representatives when the House of Representatives was unanimously accepted, and we later, as the Council of Ministers, simply referred such a version of the law, after the House of Order and since then began this odyssey. So in this, we have the position of the Chamber of Staff on this credit relationship and the Council of Ministers has made an effort to explain it first, and secondly to realize that a credit relationship is possible to formulate in a very mild form. For example. We also have such a formulation as to say a non-immediate credit relationship. The fact is, therefore, simply that the intensity that these funds must be maintained is integral, and no intention is that the Council of Ministers is making any interest and I don't know what profits. We can simply also write that this is a credit relationship under the IDA conditions, these are the conditions of 35 years of payment and the interest rate of o.7%. These are some kind of operating costs. So we suggest that we overcome it as a stumbling block, and it seems to me to be a very important qualitative provision. Secondly, when it comes to Mr. Novaković's proposal to determine the programme every year. I would like to express one opinion that these are actually one-time funds that are not being renewed annually. You once adopted the program you'll practically have.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1666	Minister, I'd really like to ask you. We don't have a letter from Novaković. If we need to take a break, because we're simply taking part in something that's not first debate about the procedure, the second is not about the material that we have and with full respect for the minister, here's what we're going to hear, but we are.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1667	All right, let me get this over with. Well, I would simply like to conclude with the appeal really to make an effort to solve this problem to find one, to find an acceptable solution by saying that we have also taken our views as the Council of Ministers on Mr Špirić's amendments, so there is no claim that we have ignored it, because it is not prescribed in what form views are on the amendments. It is clear that we have come to terms with the amendments. Thank you very much. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1668	I thank the ministers. I'm sorry, it's really about the need, and obviously we need a little break. I hope in that direction we can now get a statement from the promoter.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1669	I was pleased to hear the explanation of the Minister and the Council of Ministers who have now been given these discussions which have been and I propose before our delegates declare whether they will accept that the law is discussed per member, this one to take a break from here for, say, 10-15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1670	I'll give a half-hour break, given the experience that usually goes. So the continuation of the session is in 20 to 2. Please be specific. I remind you of the work we broke up just over 40 minutes ago, with a request for a break from the promoter, a law on the purpose and use of the property that Bosnia and Herzegovina is receiving under the Agreement on the issues of succession of former SFRY envoy Ivo Divković. [[PAUZA]] In the course of the debate on the procedure, we declare ourselves under Article 100, which means if it is accepted that it is automatically accessible to a statement of the law without the possibility of discussion and without the possibility of amendments, that is, if the procedure is not accepted automatically, it means that the proposal for a law goes into regular procedure. He would ask envoy Divković if he needed to possibly address this high house after a break and declare whether he remains on proposal and procedure 100th in order to end the debate on this very important agenda point. Here you go, Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1671	So I asked for a break after the presentation, above all, of the Council of Ministers, this representative of the Council of Ministers, because the minister made one point that seemed acceptable to me for most of this house and for me it is now acceptable, etc. It's that the law itself stands there in the text of a unambiguous loan. So that's the missing-camera word. We tried to find a form I'd say in the talks with each other if, in accordance with my request and Article 100, and with some general agreement on that term, we could find a formula to pass this law today. Unfortunately, for the time being, at least I haven't been able to hear that professional services eventually the College found the formula, and if they found it, I'd be very happy to hear the proposal, and if I don't, I certainly stay on my proposal to go along with Article 100. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1672	So, please, the Proposer remains on the proposal that the above text of the law goes according to the procedure in Article 100, and you know what this procedure means. I think we've exhausted the debate unless there's someone else to report for the debate. He reports on the words of the club president chairing the Serbian people's club, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1673	First of all, let me say that we took this break to try to find a solution and that seems to us, at least to me, we found that solution as far as the essential part is concerned. So as to the essence of the law and the Serbian delegates' club is ready, so when it comes to the essence, it means the law to plead for this law. Of course, with those remarks the Council of Ministers accepts. So that's where you go means on a credit basis without interest and respecting this Article 11. With this right now, it would practically mean stopping the debate about this. If there's a business possibility, of course. We don't want to do anything against the Rules of Procedure. So, if there's a business possibility we're ready to wrap it up. It seems to me that there is and that we are very close, that there is a desire and that we are very close.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1674	Thank you. I would really ask if we were very aware. Amendments may not be made if the applicant remains at procedure 100. If the proposer gives up the procedure 100th, then the procedure can also be shortened, can be regular, etc. Therefore, and then he must give up the procedure, to be quite clear and to discuss the procedure. And the promoter is making a move. Here comes Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1675	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we are on track for a solution to get to the law and I think that only basic debates can lead to good legal projects. There's only one question to ask. Can the Minister, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, agree with the legal text? Can she or can't she? If he can, then it's a valuable interpretation of Minister Mr. Domazet or it needs a Council of Ministers' position on business. As far as I know what is the essence and what is the problem, and that is indirectly explained by Mr. Domazet that no credit arrangement has been agreed at inter-entity level. But then in the Representative Council through the debate, it came to a situation that entities said that they could continue to distribute these assets on a credit basis to business entities, not that Bosnia and Herzegovina would lend the entities on a credit basis. That's a huge difference. And now it remains in this proposal. I need an interpretation. Is the credit base to entities at the unscathed level? And that's a strong point. You see, so it's a credit base, and the agreement between governments and ministries has been reached like this, and I have that text exactly as it says -- says this is how the concession from Article 4 of this law will be distributed so that the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina belongs 65%, and Republika Srpska has 30% of these funds, and that's the point. That's the deal that's been made. If the Council of 33 ministers accepts that agreement, it stands in agreement, we will vote in favour of such a law, but of course we must respect the procedure. We care if we can... Not today, but we don't need to violate the Rules of Procedure. Nothing will happen if we do it tomorrow and the day after tomorrow to respect the Rules of Procedure, to honor the agreement. So we're very close to solutions, but we have to have a decadent statement. It's not the same if you say 65-35% and say 65-30% on a credit-free basis. It's not the same economics. And that's what we're arguing about. I didn't want to open up the debates even media to say, that's what I was saying was not a deal reached, and they convinced me that it was and eventually they realized that they would get out of it that the deal had to be respected. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1676	Mr. Špirić, the procedure is a debate, a debate on the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1677	Here, if it's a procedure, as far as the procedure is concerned, we need to make a statement about it. If delegate Divković insists on the procedure, unfortunately if he insists on the procedure, the chances are that we are attending the procedure because it is impossible to intervene textically in this regard. Because Article 100 implies who only declares the law in the same text without adding a dot and a comma. But if Mr. Divković is prepared for a brief procedure and to be involved in what Mr. Domazet said we will support that law. We would also support him at the first session if the Council of Ministers had shown this level of understanding for the amendments. Well, that's the essence of our amendments. So we're ready, no, now it turns out we weren't the problem, but we were ready for the first session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1678	Mr. Turjačanin, is anyone else answering for a word? Home has a very clear way to go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1679	I'd ask just to ask the chairman to decide here what's the debate, what's here... Well, obviously we're all discussing it. I think the president of the Club of Serbian MPs has said very well here also the president of the Croatian Parliament Club. So we basically made a deal. Please find a form for this essence to get its implementation for law-making. So that's the fact that we're in. Any further discussion does not bear... Here you go, Mr. Jusufović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1680	Since the gentlemen of the club Serbs and the Croats have reached some kind of deal, which looks like a carat, I'm not involved in those dogs, I'm just kidding. But not serious, not serious. However, I continue to insist that we vote on the procedure, but I suggest a compromise with the view that it is not possible to disrupt the procedure to say, one conclusion afterwards, what we all mean and what we think and what is explained that these are unambiguous funds. And it's in the spirit and those decisions of the House of Representatives, because if this is 34 what Špirić is saying now, then there's no talking about the law. We return to essential things because they lose the means of integrity. It's getting back.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1681	Thank you. I'd like to ask you if you have a suggestion of conclusions, that's a new topic. We're talking about procedure. Mr. Jusufović's discussion was followed by Mr. Ilija Šimić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1682	I am convinced that Mr. Jusufović does not think this way as he said it, but he demonstrated that he has a completely or unreasonable or condescending relationship with the public. You can't talk about a carajorjevo in the House of the Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Karadjorjev worked two countries outside Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we all condemned it as not a topic here. It's an illicit, low and malicious discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1683	Thank you. The replica was before that.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1684	Let me put it a little bit more than I'm going to avoid replicas. It's absolutely possible that it was clean enough that I didn't realize it was going to cause it like this. If there's an apology, there's an apology.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1685	Thank you. I would beg you regardless of the significance of the replica you have to wait for me to give the word. Mr. Divković contacted you earlier. He's giving up. There you go. This one. Is anyone now reporting for a discussion on the subject we have, and it's about, uh, here you go, Mr. Genjac, for the procedure. I'm really not going to ask the promoter anymore. The promoter holds the procedure in his hands.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1686	I also need to support this apology by Mr. Jusufović. Mr. Šimić, I hope you understand that by Wednesday, it's an attempt, I mean a failed joke. That's one thing. Another thing about my question about why we are just discussing this law today was that it was possible to answer the Rules of Procedure, the procedure, and it was possible to explain why we hadn't discussed it before. It is also possible for the Rules of Procedure to decide that this law has been discussed before. But what is extremely unserious to me is that after all this time and after the time that has passed since the entry of the law into the procedure, we, on a half-hour break, are talking about this way about this much and this important law. In doing so, manifesting a situation where neither who makes up the parliamentary majority nor who appointed this council of ministers, nor who chose the College, 35 because the members of the College are also different political lobbys. Because members of the College do not respect the stance, they do not support the Council of Ministers' position chosen by the parties from which they have also been elected, as some MPs have been seeking to resolve issues that have been under consideration for several months within half an hour. Please, gentlemen, with all our praises for our daily work, I have voted for every law. Every success of this home of the people has had my success as well, and I'd be happy if that was how it is spoken and how it is spoken. However, this many manifested indifference and in this way manifested indifference with regard to the important law, I do not think the high House of Nations can tolerate it and I ask you to approach the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1687	I would ask you your discussion is understandable from the aspect of your political needs, but I did when I asked if anyone still has a word asking if anyone has a debate on the procedure. I think this house works in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and I hope that we will lead to the end, and I would ask you to refrain from the replicas. Mr. Ilić, you can replicate, really unlimited by hundreds of times in three minutes, that's the Rules of Procedure's permission, and I'll give the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1688	I've never used replicas, but really this time to my esteemed colleague and friend Genjac, I have to say that everything we do means everything we do and everything that time has been through, it's basically looking for a solution, and that's why we shouldn't be judged if we found a solution today at half an hour. So we've taken into account everything that's happened before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1689	Thank you. The debate is exhausted. I'm closing the debate. Please approach the plea. Who is it that the Law on the Use and Use of Assets, which Bosnia and Herzegovina receives under the Agreement on the Sucession of the former SFRY, is under the procedure of Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Who's in? - 9 Who's against it? Who's being held back? I'm giving a five-minute stand-up procedure. The procedure didn't go through. [[PAUZA]] In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it goes into regular procedure. Does he have any objections to the vote, to the procedure? Here you go, Mr. Divković. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1690	Since the law gives the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1691	Mr. Divković, I beg your pardon. There are dissonant Dons here, so I'd like to ask you to hold an entity vote on this, although it's visible. Who is against this procedure, should the law go according to procedure 100 in Republika Srpska? That's what this matter of procedure is all about. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1692	Since my request to go by article 100 has not been accepted, I am withdrawing a set of laws from the procedure of regular procedure so that this one as a pronoun requires that the law be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1693	Me as much. Here you go, Mr. Genjac. As far as I know, you're no longer able to do that. I'm saying the proposer can't pull the law anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1694	Namely, I understand if some proposal gets most of the votes present, and it doesn't get 1/3 votes from an entity, then the proposal goes to a consensus. That's what happened this time. Most of it was for, but we didn't have the RS entity needed number and the proposal goes to the alignment.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1695	That's why we've been agreeing and voting extra on who's against it. We'll see business. Anyway, he's going into regular procedure. We'll see business. The College of Interprets Rules of Procedure. So no consent has been reached in the College to follow procedure 100. That's why we made the vote extra. Representatives from Republika Srpska opposed that the law goes according to procedure and we did so for each case, and there were different interpretations here and this vote was otherwise in this context and so will be verified in the minutes. We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. Ad. Six. Proposal for a law on the use of the Red Cross/Cross sign protection and the name of the Red Cross/Cross Society Proposer of the Council of Ministers first reading. Does the promoter need to explain this possible law to some additional interpretations, suggestions? 37 You've received a report from the committees responsible. I don't suppose there's a particular need for representatives of the commission to come forward. First, we have a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded. Who's reporting for a debate on this law? First reading. Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1696	Dear colleagues, since the debate is under way on the principles of the law on the use and protection of the Red Cross/Cross and the name of the Red Cross or the Cross of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I feel the need to suggest to the legislator, or the Council of Ministers, to consider the possibility of regulating the same law and the issue of the use and protection of the Red Crescent sign. It is known that the Red Crescent Society is also operating in Bosnia and Herzegovina and there is a sign of the Red Crescent. In the world there is a confederation of the Red Cross of the Red Crescent and since the meaning and content of the Red Cross and the Red Crescent sign in this case is almost identical, I think it would be good to settle this issue with one law and then there would be no need to pass another law that would apply to the use of the Red Crescent. Otherwise, I support the adoption of this law with an earlier note that the final result of the procedure in both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly should be the adoption of laws in society and the law on the protection of the Red Cross sign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1697	If no one answered the word anymore, I would have concluded the debate. Who is it that the above law is held to discuss members? So to pass the law in the first reading. I'm asking you all to approach the vote. Unanimously, all 13 present voted in favour. Ad. Seven. A contract between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on cooperation and mutual assistance in customs matters You have received a report from the Commission. The proposal is the Presidency. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Who's answering for a word? Niko. Who's to give consent to ratify this agreement? All 13 present envoys voted yes. Ad. 8. An agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Italy on the promotion and protection of investments You have received a report from the commission. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. The motion to ratify this agreement is, of course, the presidency again. Niko one's answering for a word. 38 Who is it to give consent to ratify this agreement? Unanimously, all 13 of them. Yeah, yeah. He just said they got a report from the commission. Ad. Nine. The agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the co-operation and surrender of persons whose stay is unlawfully proposed by the BiH Presidency. You've received a report from the committees responsible. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Is anyone answering for a word? No Niko's answering for a word. Who's to give consent to ratify this agreement? Ad. Ten. The agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Slovenia on reciprocal improvement and protection of investments by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency. You've received a report from the commission. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Is anyone answering for a word or perhaps from members, the representative of the commission needs to further clarify this issue? No, I don't. Who's to ratify this agreement? Unanimously all 13 present envoys, the delegate is in favour. Ad. 11. The protocol to prevent and stop and punish human trafficking especially in women and children, which complements the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime signed in New York on 7 September 2000, is proposed by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You've received a report from the commission. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Who's answering for a word? No one. Who's to give consent to ratify this agreement? 13 of the delegates present gave consent. Ad. 12. The agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Swiss Federal Council on international road transport of persons and goods to the BiH presidency. You've received a report from the commission. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Is anyone answering their word? Nobody's answering. 39 Who is it to give consent to ratification? - 14, all 14 present voted yes. Ad. 14. Protocol on the establishment and functioning of cultural centres between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey. You've received a report from the commission. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Ilić reported on this agenda point. Here you go, Mr. Ilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1698	Mr President, fellow delegates in the framework of setting the agenda have already expressed the Commission's position and explained why the Commission considered this item to be a matter for the majority of votes to be left out of the agenda. But as we have received an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure that this is not possible then, I do not think we can accept this protocol because it is in fact in the same text as it was adopted, or signed on 7 February 1994 between representatives of the Republic, the then republic, or the Government of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Turkey. It is also said in Article 2 that these centres should contribute to the implementation of an existing bilateral agreement in the fields of culture and exchange programmes in the fields of culture concluded between the ministries and the institutions of the two sides. So the question arises who verified from the current culture of Bosnia and Herzegovina and bilateral agreements. Since neither the House of Representatives for similar reasons could accept this protocol, I suggest that this protocol be withdrawn in some way and that until we get the right interpretation and that further information be given that we are then potentially pleading.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1699	I regret to say that none of the members of the Bureau are present. Although everyone individually apologized for the necessary obligations, I expected it to be someone in the service. In principle, we are in a situation where, in conclusion, we may be prolonging a statement about this or something, and then we need to set a deadline and reason for the prolonging, or we need to define ourselves by voting, because there is a possibility that the Presidency should reconsider the ratification of a certain agreement. Since no conclusion has been defined, but in principle it has excluded the vote-related position, I, if no more, would have joined the vote. Who's to ratify this dispute? - 5 Who is against ratifying this agreement? - 5 Who's abstentioned? - 4 There is no need, no entity, no majority at all. The majority was necessary to access it at all. I find that the House of Nations has refused to ratify this agreement. 40 Ad. 14. Protocol against migrant smuggling by land, sea and air through which the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime is being supplemented in New York on 7 September 2000, Proposed by the Presidency. You've received a report from the commission. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Is anyone answering for a word? No one. Who's to give consent to ratify this agreement? The House of Nations has unanimously decided to ratify this agreement. Ad. 15. The UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime is the BiH Presidency's proposal. You've received a report from the commission. Is anyone answering for a word? I'm closing the debate. Please approach the plea. Who's to agree to be ratified in the text we got? The House of Peoples unanimously decided to ratify this agreement with 14 votes in favour. Ad. 15. The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court of the BiH Presidency. You've received a report from the commission. Is anyone answering for a word? No one. Who's to ratify this statute? All 14 present envoys voted unanimously for ratification. Ad. 17. An agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic official travel documents has been reported by the commission. Is anyone answering for a word? No one. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favor of ratifying this agreement? All 14 envoys voted and this agreement was ratified by this high House. Ad. 18. The free trade agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Slovenia is proposed by the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. You've received a report from the commission. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Is anyone answering for a word? 41 Mr Ilić, President of the Commission, responsible Commission. Here you go, Mr. Ilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1700	At its regular session yesterday, the foreign and trade policy commission discussed the agreement and concluded that this agreement should delay its ratification and give the Council of Ministers the opportunity to try again with representatives of Slovenia to fight for a more favourable treatment of Bosnia and Herzegovina products. We believe that due to the negative trade balance with the Republic of Slovenia of Bosnia and Herzegovina if this agreement were ratified without Bosnia and Herzegovina's products having the same treatment in Slovenia, it would still be at the expense of Bosnia and Herzegovina, regardless of what in this sense would have suffered the budget, but in any case, it is the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina to have its products on the Slovenian market in equal treatment. In this respect, the Commission proposes to the House unanimously mean that this, the ratification of this Agreement should be postponed.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1701	Okay. You heard the ratification of the Agreement would be delayed on a proposal from the Commission, and in the meantime the Council of Ministers should inform this House of the measures taken on the basis of the achievement of these tasks and the objectives we had. The president of the Envoys' Club in order of the Serbian people is asking for a break for 10 minutes. Is it gonna be 10 minutes? /PAUZA / I would like to ask everyone that we have taken this break on the 18th item of the agenda which speaks of the Agreement, namely the ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Slovenia, whose proposal is the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You heard a report from the committee responsible, their proposals, and then a break was requested by the Representatives' Club, i.e. delegates from the Serb people's order, and if there is a need for the chairman of the club, there is no need. Is anyone else answering for word? If no one answers the word, the conditions have been met to approach the plea. Who's to give consent to ratify this agreement? - Four votes for who's against giving consent? - 8 Who Is Restraint? With four votes in favour, eight against and two abstentions, I find that no ratification of this agreement has been accepted. We need to make a statement about the conclusion. So that the ratification of this agreement is extended until the Council of Ministers has provided an adequate argument relating to protection, that I do not repeat what the Commission concludes. 42 Who is the Commission’s conclusion as set out in the Commission’s report? - 11 Who's against it? Abstained? So with 11 votes in unanimous terms, this conclusion was adopted, which was set out in the Commission's report on Foreign Trade and Foreign Affairs of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. Ad. 19. The agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the state of Kuwait on the signing and reciprocal protection of investments is proposed by the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You've received a report from the commission. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Is anyone answering for a word? Unless nobody's answering, I'm closing the debate. Who is to give consent to ratify that agreement? All 15 envoys, the House of Peoples delegates of the Parliamentary Assembly voted in favour of ratification of this agreement. Ad. 20. A proposal for the conclusion of the delegations of delegates Džaferović and Genjac The text of the conclusion you received. An explanation for such a text of conclusion you have heard of setting the agenda point and the proposer's willingness to adopt a possible and different text of such a conclusion. Who answers for the word regarding this proposal? I'd like to ask you if you need a break for everyone to get the material. Does anyone answer for a word? No Niko's answering for a word. I'd just, give me your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1702	Mr. Sejfudin Tokić, for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1703	There is only here in reason and implication of something that is not true and that should ultimately determine the revision. And I think that by prejudged the review report, which is that there has been an excess of costs in the explanation, and in this context, I find it not good, to be an integral part of even the proposal for a conclusion, and the complete text of the conclusion in a certain way limits the opportunities of the College of the People's House in a way that is not provided for by the Rules of Procedure and I will make myself known in this respect when voting. Here's Mr. Džaferović's need to give clarifications. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1704	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I am obliged as one of the promoters, so we are obliged to give Dr. Genjac and I the written form of the reasons we were handling when we proposed this conclusion. Of course, the argument, it's an integral part of the text of the conclusion for you that you need to decide, and the conclusion of what's the sentence of the conclusion, what's written under points 1.2 and 3. From conclusion to reasoning, that's what you need to be clear about. As far as I'm concerned, just to be clear, since you said about this excess of costs, that's why the planned costs and the carry-over are about 100%. I, i.e. we used the report on the implementation of the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions for the past year, and it said that it was 198%, here it was said by the eye, but here is the part that can be deleted. So it's irrelevant here in terms of reason. Here are the reasons. Points 1.2 and 3 are important and are voted on. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1705	Okay, because of the public, I'd repeat what's official. The Parliamentary Assembly did not go beyond spending the intended financial resources in line with the budget, and the audit will eventually establish and we will have a review report on all institutions, as well as the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you for your clarification. So, what will eventually be said, if there is no debate, is the conclusion, the text of the conclusions, as Mr Džaferović, was said. We can unless there's a debate to access the plea. I'm sorry, sir, we already have a debate, so I'd like to pray for the word first Mr. Turjačanin, and then Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1706	I would only like as a member of the Foreign Trade and Foreign Policy Commission to address the proposals of this conclusion, because I believe that the text of the conclusion is acceptable, the text of the reasoning other than the middle text in the course of last year and I read it, it is. So is it finally or is it, I just now got a proposal in front of me. So I think the reasoning conclusions without a middle sentence, not to say the items that are being elaborated specifically... for 2001 was quite enough and acceptable to declare it positively. Otherwise, I won't plead otherwise if this conclusion has such a connotation in mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1707	I would pray if possible, perhaps at the end when everyone points out whether it's a replica or a discussion. Discussion, Spahić answered first. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1708	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, would like first of all to say that there is basically one element missing that many of these issues would become simply 44 declassified or less irrelevant if they were to act in 2002 on the basis of the debate we were having, at one of these sessions in the past year. The first thing I would like to say is that and quite clearly to say that there are different experiences in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament regarding this conclusion that has been provoked by practice in Parliament. For example. in the previous term at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, the Foreign Policy Commission considered before the College could make its own decisions, the composition of certain delegations and platforms, and it was an obligation to submit a report. Also regularly in the context of not the accompanying material, but the component, and this can be seen from the magnetogram of the work of the home either on several occasions provided information on these trips. The second incomparably smaller was the communication of the home and at all the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples two years ago than it is now, which is quite understandable, because the good part of the delegations did not function at all in the way it is now functioning. On the other hand, the position of international Bosnia and Herzegovina implies parliamentary diplomacy and Parliament's responsibility to establish contacts with the world and I don't think that the situation can be compared practically when you have no excessive activity, but you have an activity that is so relatively valuable in parliamentary practice, then it is possible for you to see in this casual relationship that there are no particularly heated passions about these issues. What I'd like to say is about those two falsified women that exist in our work. The first is compared to this home of the people and last year. We last year, but I still hope this will happen, but it is likely that this people's home as the House of Peoples does not have a programme of work in which one parliament that has two types of activity, when it comes to travel. One type of activity is the travel of delegates to Bosnia and Herzegovina, so on the ground in its country and insight into things that are quite normal. Which isn't a work programme last year, and this new program hasn't even been discussed yet, we haven't even had a chance to see it. It is probably expected that we will get the work programme, although January is moving away. I think we all do.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1709	I'd like to beg you. If you want to answer the question of the work programme.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1710	Let me just say what this is about. Let me just say it precisely. I'll ask you to say it. I suggest one practical correction to this conclusion. I think a lot of things would fall off if the work programme were an item called parliamentary co-operation. This means obligations, for example. which are related to calls that never come from other countries 3 days before or 15 days before, but come a month, 3 months, 6 months before the contract. And I think it makes sense for our next period by October of the month to plan which is 10-15-20 parliamentary visits that are of interest to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament, in which both the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples participate. And that task should be done by the commission and prepared one such proposal for the College and then, of course, for the House within the framework of the work programme. It would seem to me that this first conclusion that colleagues here propose has a different meaning and I would say that it owes the Colleges of the House of Nations in the framework of the work programme to anticipate parliamentary co-operation and parliamentary co-operation and obligations in this parliamentary diplomacy. 45 I think it's very correct and that in that sense that conclusion would then get other connotations. As for the mandatory request of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, the latter would then fall off. There would be no conflict of interest in the House, the kolegija and the Commission at all, but the work programme would create obligations called the platform, reports and, therefore, it seems to me that point 1 is very acceptable. Because the right to be told when there is a work programme, so I am undermining both internal and external travels, so parliamentary activity in the area, is then being placed in the right place. And then the Commission monitors and works as it writes in the Rules of Procedure and achieves parliamentary co-operation and international visits, etc. As far as point 2 is concerned, I think the question is practically resolved if the Commission, I insisted on this during the two sessions that I participated in the work of this committee at the outset that it is necessary, of course, in this strategy to demonstrate the possibility of, of course, our travel, work, etc., but if this Parliament, and I have to say, open, this Parliament has one resolution on foreign policy, which obliges MEPs to create as much more meaningful co-operation as possible in Europe and the world and with neighbours in this area. Then, of course, I further argue that the Commission has a certain role to play in point 2 and that the text could say that it does not refer to this type of travel verification because if the first position is accepted then it is understood that it is according to the work programme, that this programme is adopted, that it is known how delegates and its structure are formed, etc. Because it's practically reduced to point three to the next. It is clear exactly what permanent parliamentary delegations are and that is clear. As far as these other delegations are concerned, they are mainly ad hoc delegations or delegation calls to the president or chairman of one or both homes. My suggestion here is that we draw a conclusion that makes no sense in the name of the so-called principle. national equality travels to six members of the College on a journey where a call from one of the presidents of any country so as not to make it known that it would not be called. I think that we can bring, this is a good reason to agree that it is perfectly fine to go to the chairman of one home and chair from another home, if it is Parliament's representation. And secondly, if it's a national-based team, it's quite correct that they don't go on the same basis as the College of the House of Peoples and the College of the House of Representatives, because it doesn't really make sense. I mean it's irrational, it's absolutely one principle that should be agreed just like tears. And I would simply like to support the motives and the debate on this, not because we would draw a conclusion in a sense that would lead to this in some way bringing our relationship into question, but in order to establish a programmed, precise work, that the Foreign Policy Commission has an adequate role in accordance with its rules of procedure, that it must ensure that it is on the agenda because of this rich interparliamentary cooperation of information on the work of this Commission and these reports and thus suggest that we face the fact that this debate should not be forgotten, that there is no real sense for both colleges to go on a journey on a double basis, and that is what may most possibly have fallen into the eyes. And as for the protocol visits that the chairman has to perform in the function he or she will perform, I think it is correct and that this is actually a programme of work for the representatives of the one representing the home of the Parliament. So I think it's one 46 very important fence that would create a different climate in our relationship if it were to be considered that there's no reason to exaggerate what would be said in this kind of representation. And in the end, I would like there to be no problem behind each trip to submit an official report at each of the next sessions as we have, and to stand one point on permanent basis, that would be my point 3 that I propose that Parliament be informed of the results of the visits that have been revised between the two sessions. It is a very strict conclusion and I think we would get to say the quality of today's conversation on what Mr Genjac and Džaferović have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1711	I thank Mr Spahić. I guess we all saw in principle that this is a kind of proposal, not an independent suggestion to the motionor. If he agrees, if he disagrees, then you insist on your suggestions. It's important for the MP. Okay. Then I would ask you to make a precise suggestion that we may have the opportunity to know what we are pleading on. That's why I asked. Mr Špirić answered for the word and then Mr Divković. He would ask his colleague Spahić to define the conclusions, he would ask you for real.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1712	Ladies and gentlemen, on the trail of what Mr Ibrahim Spahić said and, of course, by respecting the initiative of the motions of Mr Genjac and Mr Džaferović, and regarding the parliamentary activities of the House of Nations against international co-operation, I would like to say that this parliamentary co-operation was in the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that the environment in which Bosnia and Herzegovina is located is such that it is necessary to carry out intensive parliamentary co-operation on the promotion of Bosnia and Herzegovina. God forbid Bosnia and Herzegovina is in an economic situation such that these visits and mutual parliamentary correspondence are higher. I agree that there must be order, that there must be reports, and if there is something controversial about travel, then it must have a name and a name. It is easy to talk about that too much has been traveled and that these trips are not in the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina itself is not good for the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina itself. I speak for practical reasons assuming that no journey applies to me until the end of my term. So not personally motivated on any journey, but if you have a call from one of the parliaments in Europe from the world, sometimes you won't be in a position to call the chairman of the College to request a report from it, etc. You will not make an important parliamentary visit which is of interest to Bosnia and Herzegovina. That is why I am on the trail of what Mr Ibrahim Spahić said that the level of international parliamentary co-operation is being defined programmeically, and that if there are objections to the Rules of Procedure against the mandate of the College to seek amendments to the Rules of Procedure. It is no problem to ask for an amendment to the Rules of Procedure in which the points they define, which are related to the competences of the College, will be redefined. I'm afraid by doubting our conclusions, we won't exactly punish what's called the main idea, based on which the proposings were inspired to propose this conclusion. So I am on track to control the journey, that they must be in the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc., but I am not in the sense that it is one restriction that will reduce the important visits that are on the line of opening Bosnia and Herzegovina and 47 Herzegovina. And I must tell you that the level of this parliamentary co-operation has well improved the picture of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the eyes of the international community in the eyes of European parliaments. We have had demands, we must be honest to form a permanent delegation from members of both colleges at the Council of Europe. You know, sometimes when changing delegations come, they tell different stories. It would be good for Spahić to say he was going to preside over each other's homes, but believe that it will be after that, if we bring different stories to that conclusion. We were now on a visit where the hosts told us that this was the first time that a multi-entity delegation of Bosnia and Herzegovina came to visit them, a symbol of their political stability in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't know if anyone in this country would be pleased that, that may be the goal we are seeking and that Bosnia and Herzegovina will probably find itself in that instance, so it will be enough to leave one or two to go and talk about the position of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But different stories were told about Bosnia and Herzegovina outside. And I have to tell you that the presence, though, of these delegations may be less, that rationalisation in any case comes into consideration. And so I am on track that these conclusions, if it is possible for Mr Spahić and Mr Halid and Mr Džaferović to define common conclusions, would have much greater weight. You know the vote on one another must fall off, and I care simply that this idea of Mr Genjac and Džaferović is simply accepted to the extent that is good for Bosnia and Herzegovina. So it would be good if we had one conclusion and adopted it. If we go through a series of conclusions, some will have to fail, and we are not convinced that we have achieved our goals in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1713	I'm thanking you. The word came from Mr. Divković, according to this Jusufović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1714	I in this and the proposal, as well as the debate on this one that is being led, actually I see the problem I would say the overlaps between the business, i.e. the business indeterminateness of the Commission on Foreign Trade and the College of the House when it comes to interparliamentary co-operation. If it is read well, then it can be seen that some things are not defined to the end, etc. And so would I, my suggestion goes to the proposer of these conclusions, that I do not suggest my conclusion, but to the Proposer. I would like the Foreign Trade and Foreign Affairs Commission to propose to the House of People a methodology of cooperation with the College on planning, preparing travel, reporting from the travel of a parliamentary delegation, etc. It means that we have one debate on the Commission, a proposal from the Commission about it here, and we have to take that position. That's one of my suggestions, I think that would make a lot of difference, and I'm telling you that I'm a member of this committee and that the Commission has turned into the Foreign Trade Commission, and when it's foreign policy, we're not there. Either we're not doing well, or the College has taken our powers, or none of us know enough of our ingenuity not to have any doubts about it right now, because I don't have an answer, but I really think that this is the way to end the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1715	Okay. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović. No, no, just go ahead. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1716	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, so we don't need to have any big discussion about these things. My goal is to actually our goal is to bring order here into this area. It's obvious he's not here. It's not the point of politicizing at all. Dr Genjac and I accept those proposals which go in the direction of providing this conclusion as the starting material to the Foreign Policy, Foreign and Trade Policy Commission, that the Commission, as an expert body, should study this issue and propose to this House for the next session at its Rules of Procedure in the Constitution a well-founded procedure for resolving these issues. It's not our goal today to appeal to the two of us one conclusion against which this house would vote. Our goal is to do a fundamental thing, that in this home there is a prescribed procedure that we no longer deal with these issues. And please nice, those who mentioned the explanation. Explanation is not the text of the conclusions. The explanation is our view of conclusions for proposing conclusions. As far as the objection is concerned, I would just like to give a brief answer to Mr Špirić as to the possible disturbance in achieving Bosnia and Herzegovina's parliamentary co-operation because of this conclusion, there is therefore no interference. This conclusion does not apply to the activities of the chairmans of the Houses who, according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, represent the Parliamentary Assembly and within that House cannot limit them, nor is the aim of this conclusion. Therefore, there cannot be a situation where Bosnia and Herzegovina suffers adverse consequences, because there is a home chairman who at any time can reach co-operation under the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, and this does not apply and cannot apply to them. This cannot apply to permanent delegations formed. We will not, nor will we, nor will we want to interfere with the work of a parliamentary delegation in the Council of Europe in the Interparliamentary Union in the Central European Initiative in the OSCE. These delegations are not covered by this conclusion. They operate by their own rules. The Chairman of the House works according to his own rules. This applies to ad hoc delegations. There's been a lot of these last year, and it seems to me in many cases unnecessary. Mr. Špirić says Bosnia and Herzegovina has benefited from this. Maybe it is. As a delegate, I don't know, we're even, and I have the right to know that, and the purpose of this conclusion is precisely to keep me informed and not to go out for this pay phone anymore. I've been insisting on these questions for half a year. So, the promoters agree to conclude today that the conclusion we proposed as a draft, let's say, the adopted draft by the House is delegated to the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy. Let him define the final proposal on procedures and deliver it to this home for adoption. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-01-17-0.u1717	Thank you. I have consulted on other promoters and I ask you to listen very carefully. So the proposal for conclusions proposed by Mr Džaferović and Genjac, as well as the proposals for the conclusions of Mr Spahić and the discussion tabled here and the suggestions to be made, constitute the starting basis of the task of the Foreign and Trade Commission to propose a conclusion on this session by the next session. We agree. 49 Who is the conclusion of this proposal? Do you mind? I'm guessing we've exhausted the agenda point here. The next regular session, with the consent of all members of the College, is scheduled for February 21st. Regular session on February 21st. The session is over at 3:30.
