ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2460	Ladies and gentlemen, honored delegates, distinguished guests, representatives of public information funds, the esteemed chairman of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, I am opening the 20th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen of today's 20th session of the National Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina is attended by 12 delegates, 3 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people, 4 from the order of the Serb people. So we have a quorum, we can make full decisions at home. The absence was announced by Mr Sejfudin Tokić and Mr Goran Turjačanin, who attend the plenary session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. So they're justifiably absent. Of course, the Minister for Foreign Trade announced that he would not be able to attend today’s meeting of the People’s House. I expect that a representative of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina will join us, given that I have information that they have an extraordinary session of the Council of Ministers whose results will be more important for our session today. Ladies and gentlemen for today's session, the College of the People's House proposed the following D's n's d's: 1. Answering Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions, 2. Minutes from the 18th and 19th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 3. Declaration by the People's House on the Report of the Joint Commission of both homes on the conclusion of an agreement on the identical text of the Consumer Protection Act, 4. Law on the State Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions under Article 100, legislators Ibrahim Spahić, Nikola Špirić, Dragutin Rodić, Goran Turjačanin and Sejfudin Tokić, 5. Law on Obdusmen BiH, Member of 100th, legislators Ibrahim Spahić, Nikola Špirić, Dragutin Rodić, Goran Turjačanin and Sejfudin Tokić, 6. Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Taxes of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 100, legislators Ibrahim Spahić, Nikola Špirić, Dragutin Rodić, Goran Turjačanin and Sejfudin Tokić, 7. Law on administrative fees and tariffs for administrative fees, also under Article 100, legislators Ibrahim Spahić, Nikola Špirić, Dragutin Rodić, Goran Turjacanin and Sejfudin Tokić, 8. Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, article 100, proposed by Ibrahim Spahić, Sejfudin Tokić, 2 9. Law on the Foundations of the Public Radio Television System and on the Public Radio Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Article 100, proposed by delegates Ibrahim Spahić, Sejfudin Tokic, 10. Law amending and supplementing the Framework Law on the privatisation of enterprises and banks in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Article 100, proposed by delegates Sejfudin Tokić, 11. Law amending and supplementing the Law on filling the vacant seat of the BiH presidency member, Article 100, proposed by delegate Sejfudin Tokić, 12. The Law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, Article 100, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, and in materials you have received the motion of delegate Sejfudin Tokić, - I will, of course, when we open the debate on the agenda to say what changes are proposed here by the House of Peoples' College, 13. Law on legal aid and official co-operation in criminal matters between the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska and Brcko District, Article 100, legislators Nikola Špirić, Dragutin Rodić, Goran Turjačanin and Sejfudin Tokić, 14. Declaration by the House of Nations on the consideration under Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Air Force of BiH, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 15. Declaration by the House of Nations on the consideration under Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Law on Veterinary of BiH, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 16. The agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of Germany on achieving and protecting investments with the protocol, proposed by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, 17. Agreement on the amendment to the Loan Treaty dated 2 November 2000 between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Bosnia and Herzegovina, proposed by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, 18. Agreement between the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on international road transport of passengers and cargo, proposed by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, 19. Information on the situation in the area of immigration and asylum in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 20. Resolution on the original financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and international commitments, proposed by delegates Sejfudin Tokić and 21. Information on the implementation of Annex VII of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH, the proposal of the Council of Ministers. So the 21st point of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, in a conversation with OHR representatives, the Council of Ministers and the Permanent Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have been asked to amend and supplement the Standing Election Law by July 2nd to have a complete legislative legislation regarding the October elections. We in the College have reached agreement that if, until the end of this regular session, we get material and a request from the Council of Ministers to discuss the urgent procedure, we should hold therefore an extraordinary session of the People's House behind this session to consider and adopt this material, so that we do not have to take an emergency session during the week and thus make double expenses from the point of view of spending funds from the Budget. I hope we get your support for what we suggested, but let's keep it a matter of time before we finish our first regular session, so regular 20th session. 3 I'm opening a debate on the agenda you've been given. Here, who wants a word? Sir, delegate Halid Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2461	My fellow ladies and gentlemen, an impressive agenda, a large number of points on the agenda, of course, gives me pleasure at first sight. I was surprised by the great law to propose MPs, which is very commendable. However, when I did, I was surprised that some laws had been proposed by three or four MPs. Then I looked a little more closely, and I saw that the same texts of the law were proposed by the same MPs, which is amazing. Then I did a little more checking, and I found that these were actually all the laws declared by the High Representative, so now they're being proposed by the MPs. But then I further found that these were some of the laws that we were considering in January, so we rejected them, so today we propose them again, and what is particularly surprising, those same laws have been rejected by some of the MPs who are proposing them today. Now, of course, I'm going to tell you right now about all these laws, and I voted for all these laws, but I would ask that political efforts between the sessions be made to achieve agreement between parties and clubs so that the laws that are on the agenda, especially the laws proposed by the High Representative, or declare that consensus is reached and that they are definitely adopted at the session. Especially given the laws of the road map commitment, because I remind you that these days, that is 16 July will be held a session of the Advisory Body of the Council of Europe to discuss meeting the conditions of the road map and this will be the basis for considering and preparing the production....studio for our accession to the Stability Pact, i.e. the project of accession and stability. If we don't meet the requirements of last July's deadline, last June's commitment to do so was not met, now here's the end of June's not yet met. And unless these laws are passed, there's a question of... a study for this year, and probably not until next year. Some of these laws, such as public TV service are now on the agenda proposed and I would pray therefore that we have this in mind and, of course, I support what is being put on the agenda today if political agreement has been reached between parties and clubs, which is the purpose of the bodies run by this Parliament and this home. I have two other suggestions. This was an introduction. Let me make two suggestions. When I saw this impressive agenda with the 21st point of the agenda, I was surprised that there were no budget reports for the past year in today's agenda. Here I express my suspicion that this persistent ignoring that last year's budget report is being put on the agenda, and I doubt there's anything clean about it. And I would therefore like to put an end to the agenda – the conclusion of the deadline within which the Council of Ministers will submit a report on the implementation of the 2001 budget. In the 2000 election campaign, the key word was transparency. Transparency is not available unless the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Implementation Report is under consideration. It is therefore a business obligation not to refer to members of the Rules of Procedure as proposing this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2462	I would only ask you to stick to the agenda and supplement the agenda if there is. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2463	Supplement, so supplementing the agenda proposal to the agenda item. I have a written proposal for a point and a supplement. The second thing, I was even more disappointed and amazed by the scandalous fact that today there are no agendas Appointing a delegation of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Council of Europe. A number of countries have been admitted to the Council of Europe. All these countries have resolved their delegations' proposal. Our delegation is about
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2464	I beg you, there's no need to explain, suggest a item on the agenda, if it passes, we'll open the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2465	I have to explain.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2466	I beg you, suggest a item of the agenda and an explanation if we open the debate now there's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2467	So I have to explain the proposal so the MPs can decide whether to accept that item on the agenda, you know. As long as delegations are admitted to the Council of Europe and before that, prepare and confirm the delegation at the time when this is confirmed in the Council of Europe, that delegation shall be verified. In our case, various translators, secretary, went to that session on April 20 and 22, but the permanent delegation did not leave because it was not elected. There was a temporary delegation there, so it's in the halls, and the halls chairing the two homes have signed that the previous guest delegation is attending the session. When it was done then they said you know by the Statute this delegation that was then appointed should be, cannot be changed. Of course we reacted, we called for the conclusions of the House of Representatives, which at the 25th session found that a delegation had to be confirmed, that a delegation had to be filled and an amazing thing was happening, that a group of officials from the House of Peoples were reacting and you know what, they were not MPs that were right, the elected delegation only needed a supplement. That didn't happen in Biafra either, you know, that the Department of Public Dispute the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2468	I'm asking you to change and supplement the agenda for three minutes. Stick to business time, otherwise the time is up, suggest changes and additions to the points you think you should. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2469	Since, meanwhile, all of this documentation has been obtained and the letter by Bruno Haler has stated as the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe that there are 5 members present there, but it is not known whether they are permanent or deputies of what Parliament needs to decide and that a further completion of the delegation should be made, because there are 5 there are some who do not know the status, but a delegation should count 10. It was a letter from Bruno Haler at the request of the chairman of the House of Representatives. And for this reason, I propose to include at today's session the item of the agenda called – Establishing responsibility for the violation of the BiH delegation's reputation in the Council of Europe, which has not been confirmed and not completed by the delegation within the required time. This is therefore the second addition, based on the Rules of Procedure, also a member who regulates the role of the Colleges in co-ordination is well known. And in the end, there's one point I suggest that it be removed from the agenda. It is a resolution of the original financing of the institutions of international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In fact, in the programme of this Parliament in the majority group of parties that has for this term, it was the adoption of legislation now proposed here in the resolution to be passed. And here is the mandate almost passed, these laws have not been passed, and now at the end of the term, one of the MPs who is from that group of ruling parties is proposing a resolution to pass those laws. You know when the mandate is past, a man proposes a resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2470	I'm asking you to take care of the weather again. You've run out of time. If possible, shorten the explanation. I didn't write my own Rules of Procedure. Three minutes won't anyone, believe me, get more than three minutes. A pre-election story on the party stands.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2471	Mr. Špirić for every proposal for three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2472	Not for every proposal, but one proposal for three minutes. Come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2473	So, at the end of the term, when it's all over, a man suggests we make a resolution, that is,
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2474	Well, here's what you're suggesting is that the agenda point be removed.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2475	Please, I'm done. So I suggest we give the honorable word that we adopt those laws. Since I, in the resolution, said in the Rules of Procedure that the motion for a resolution has 20 minutes to explain what this is about, I think a man is teasing us and since he's not here to ask him if he's kidding or serious, I suggest that this point be removed from the agenda. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2476	I thank the delegate Mr. Halid Genjac. I want to find out that we've got Mr Spahić here to have 14 delegates now. I am pleased to welcome the chairmanship of the Council of Ministers, dr Mikerević and members of the Council of Ministers Dr Domazet and Rasim Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2477	Mr. Špirić wants to talk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2478	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished fellow delegates, distinguished guests, the chairman of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, chairman of the Council of Ministers, I would like to give a brief, so just a brief explanation of the allegations of enthusiasm and disappointment of Mr Genjac. I see no reason to be disappointing to someone that delegates in the meantime managed to reach a political agreement and put on the agenda today all the laws imposed by the former High Representative. I think it's a success, especially how much power we can make today's laws to pass. I think it is the only possible way to compromise through hard-line political talks comes to legal projects. If this is a disappointment for Mr Halid Genjac's delegate, and in the second part he calls us to make an effort to adopt other important laws, which are important for Bosnia and Herzegovina, which I also agree with. There is no other way than discussions and compromises between delegate clubs and political parties to reach legal projects. I would also like to say that the delegation groups have independently proposed this adoption of these legal projects under Article 100, without waiting for a single proposal from the Council of Ministers. We in the College only united all these requirements, so here you get a unique list of Ibrahim Spahić, Špirić, Turjačanin etc. Because these were separate proposals, but we didn't mind because we proposed that, therefore, by Article 100, we together propose this together and that today we adopt the House of Nations. I think it's a good way, a good move, and in the future, of course, along with Mr. Šimić and Mr. Tokić, I will try to make a concrete contribution to the adoption of the laws in this way. I think that at least if today's House of Peoples, I believe that it will adopt these legal projects, I want to say that we belong to the most productive parliament at all levels in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I think, of course, that it should make us happy. I'm not going to say, of course, it's the right of the delegates to seek to take down the agenda points or the new agenda, but I was quick to explain this just so that it doesn't get the impression that this was the result of some unserious work. So we've done some serious work, and today we'll see if we're ready to confirm it by voting for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2479	Thank you very much. The word has been given by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, sir. At all times, the President of the Council of Ministers has the advantage. You doctors will get your word right after the chairman. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2480	I would like to welcome you on behalf of the Council of Ministers and, at the same time, to inform you that during the meeting of the Council of Ministers, there is also an emergency session of this House to adopt this set of laws and round up legal regulations for the next elections, and in that sense, I would like to suggest to you that we are not present here, because we really have a lot of work to do since we have a working text in several options, and we would like to come to you with a consolidated text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2481	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. That's the decision we made. We're waiting for text from the Council of Ministers. We're ready to hold an emergency session. I ask you, as chairman, to do everything possible to get this material to us during the session so that we can declare ourselves related to the material. Thank you very much. For word's sake, it's Mr. Genjac's guilty quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2482	It's just that it's not appropriate and unusual for the agenda to be conducted, but Mr. Špirić obviously didn't exactly register my sentences correctly. I'm not disappointed with the number of laws on the agenda, on the contrary, I'm thrilled and I'll support them all, and I've supported them all so far. I am disappointed that there are no budget reports and there is no delegation appointments. I'm disappointed in the team. That's the difference. Maybe it didn't sound good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2483	I don't think the House of Nations needs to deal with your disappointments or enthusiasms. You made a suggestion, let's move on. Mr. Ibro Spahić answered the word. No business intervention. I'd like you to hold a press conference if you want an election campaign. Here you go. He can't. You can call yourself what you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2484	Mr. Chairman and the guests, first of all, I would like to say that it's perfectly natural that now suddenly a tract of proposings is made for these laws. I have now read on the table that the Council of Ministers has subsequently joined as a legislator of these laws. It reminds me of the manner of one here in Parliament when someone suggests something, then it is blocked, and later a new initiator appears with the same text and a little bit changed. For example. as a resolution on young people. I was thrilled to see how mani-pedi had been made in this House and how much energy was spent for it. But I'll talk about it when it's on the agenda, one day until the election and after. Otherwise, I support all the resolutions on young people. But I will show how the administration dictates relations in Parliament and how it manages to play card parks for its representatives of the authorities who put it here in this House. Because that's why there's eight press conferences I'll talk about in public. And now I'm going to say something about the agenda for another minute. These laws that I have proposed as well as fellow MPs are a pity that we have not all proposed them, so I see that there are no representatives of the Croatian People's Club and it is a pity that I think they will also be given in the honorable pioneering word as well as Mr Genjac to abide by these support and the Council of Ministers, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2485	I'm just asking you to consider changing the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2486	In order not to make a promise to each other, I suggest we simply adopt the agenda proposed by the College. We should also support Mr Mikerević's proposal that he already passed to us yesterday, the law on which they hold an extraordinary session today.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2487	I beg you, this is a proposal from the College of the House of Peoples, not Mr. Mikerević.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2488	Well, then I also support your proposal by saying that I have a bill on amendments to the Election Law and addition of the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with a date that arrived yesterday on 24th, and today it is 25th, so you put on a table one proposal that is under discussion at the moment and requires an extraordinary session. Well, since there are some changes yet, additions and creative views I support from the College and the Council of Ministers. So I won't make a problem about it, I support it and it's on the agenda. We can continue on the agenda, we can do part of the agenda, we can have an emergency session. Whatever the college suggests. Now, just about what's on our agenda. I do not think it makes any sense to establish responsibility for why we did not select a permanent delegation in Parliament, and I do not agree with Mr Genjac's proposal, but I would simply suggest that the obligation from the letter of the Council of Europe be met on the agenda of this or the next session to be the choice of delegation and deputy members of the delegation as planned. There's nothing controversial about that, and I think it's clear as day. The only thing that can't be broken here is this session and it won't happen that there's no quorum. I hope that people will endure facing the fact that this delegation will be appointed. It is my proposal to include, therefore, the choice of delegation and deputy members of the Council of Europe delegation without accepting Mr Genjac's proposal to determine responsibility, because it makes no sense in my opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2489	I thank Mr Spahić. The word is Mr. Dragutin Rodić, so Mr. Divković. 9 I apologize only to one explanation, what Mr. Ibro Spahić said is about amending and supplementing the election law of the Council of Ministers. I'm asking you to read the materials you get from the studio. This does not refer to a special session of the House of Peoples. Point 12 is proposed by Sejfudin Tokić, but the Council of Ministers has completed all the amendments and additions imposed by the High Representative and our proposal will be that the point be related to the Council of Ministers' material by letter to which you have called.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2490	(?) Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would like to suggest two new points of the agenda. I think that both committees that agreed on the unique text of the law, which was adopted in the House of Representatives and the home of the people, have done their job. This is the Commission's report on the alignment of the text of the Law on Administrative Procedure and the Law on Administrative Disputes, and I think it was already in the House of Representatives' session, and I don't think there's a need to delay it when we can adopt it here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2491	I would beg in writing, I would only beg written material to submit a request for a item on the agenda. Next, it's Mr. Ivo Divković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2492	The Honorable Chairman of the Presidency, the Honorable Chairman of this House, dear colleagues, I came out just outside the Hrvat klub to say our position on the proposed agenda, and I would say we were initiated by the debate of Mr Spahić. Today we have here on the agenda a package of 10 laws declared by the High Representative, which were in some way in the parliamentary procedure in this house in the earlier period. I want to say right away very clearly and loudly that the Club of Croats before and before these laws were declared by the High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina was ready to support the proposed laws and we will still support these laws today and therefore support that these laws are on the agenda and we do not seem to mind at all that no one legally until the Hrvat are on the list from the legislators of these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2493	I thank Mr. Divković. Who's next to the word? If no one calls, I can get a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2494	Mr. Špirić's word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2495	Ladies and gentlemen, I only want to be on the 12th item of the agenda so that we can understand ourselves, you have, as a proposal for the 12th item of the agenda, received the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 100, the proposal of the Council of Ministers in brackets 10 stands for Proposer Sejfudin Tokić. Namely, Mr. Tokić, as a proposer, included only two amendments imposed by the High Representative. The Council of Ministers covered all amendments concerning the corrections of the Permanent Election Act under the orders of the High Representative, and we discussed and decided in the College, since the Council of Ministers therefore included all amendments to make today's basis for discussion the subject matter of the Council of Ministers, taking into account, of course, the demands of Mr Sejfudin Tokić, which are identical to the two amendments, because there was no different option. So just to know that today we are pleading against the material of the Council of Ministers, bearing in mind, of course, what Mr. Sejfudin Tokić requires in his proposal. As for drawing conclusions within the deadline for discussing the implementation of the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2001, I am prepared to support this conclusion by Mr Genjac and to determine the responsibility for the summit of the non-complete delegation in the Council of Europe, I think that we should at least in this home, with more love for the state we represent, talk about the performance of our delegation, which I think has worked as part of the efforts of the Bosnia and Herzegovina authorities to become an integral part of united Europe as soon as possible. I think our commission has been working successfully, but I also think that it should be completed by the Deputy Permanent Delegations in the Council of Europe, but I don't think it should be done in a way, I don't think it should be done in the way that it is intended to be potential. So that's my attitude. I will, of course, declare myself on the proposed agenda points. Thank you. What's the intervention about? That's my attitude. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2497	First of all, I'd like to say we're not making a mistake. My position is very clear. There is no such thing as Mr Špirić, nor Mr Genjac, the Institute of Responsibility of MPs or any institution that could formulate itself as a point of determining moral political responsibility. It's been a while. I don't know what kind of responsibility you expect from who, from two colleges.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2498	I don't know what your discussion is about.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2499	I do not agree with this, and I do not support the proposal that you have supported once and for the second time to formulate the point of responsibility for not determining the delegation's appointment of the delegation and the deputy delegation. I suggested the point, wrote the agenda. I'm against Mr. Genjac's suggestion. I'm just suggesting that a normal election procedure be conducted for members and deputies. It was never done after the time it was meant to be done. The signature stands only for Mr. Željko Mirjanić and Mr. Tokić. Tokić, which refers to a delegation he led when he was chairman, for that session when we were admitted and is now being made public to interpret how it was done. That's not true. Even if the job had been done, the College couldn't do any of the other chairing on behalf of me and the other delegates. I therefore seek the agenda point, here are colleagues from the club of Serbian, Croatian, Bosniak, agenda point – The selection of members of the delegation and the deputy delegation. And the responsibility of them at home about it. You know that. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2500	I'm asking you all suggestions will be put on the agenda. Youimaćete have, of course, a way of voting will define our position whether we support the agenda or not. I don't want us to replicate, so we'll have a way to plead. I'm closing the debate on this. The word is Mr. Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2501	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I only need to clarify one thing when it comes to the agenda. Point 12 of the Agenda of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 100. Rules of Procedure on the work of this house. You, Mr. Chairman, have said that the basis for this item on the agenda is the material we need to get from the Council of Ministers today.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2502	No, I don't. This is what I warned Mr Spahić that the materials are being read. These are imposed, as imposed by the High Representative, Mr Tokić united two imposed decisions, and the Council of Ministers three, and the amendments and additions refer to the election of the Council of People in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, the Council of Peoples in the Federation and the president and two vice presidents in the Federation.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2503	So I just want to clarify the situation. What we will get from the Council of Ministers today is, in fact, the procedure of the Council of Ministers and the competent state authorities after amendments to the entity constitutions have been adopted and those issues are being settled in the Electoral Law that remained unregulated when we passed the Electoral Law. So you weren't exact when you were talking here. I just want that thing to be clear, so we know what we're talking about. And I am very well aware that the High Representative has intervened three times so far in Electoral Law Article 18b. in the registration of political parties and candidates, then a multi-member electoral unit and the other, this was the third and second amendment that one day moved the deadline for elections, and I know what Mr. Tokić covered with his proposal, but it is very important therefore when you spoke about the basis for today's debate on the text of the Council of Ministers that this is not really what is now in the course of the session, which we will get and will be the subject of a special debate. So let's clear this thing up so there's no confusion. That's why I went out for a pay phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2504	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Genjac here, is that a replica, a false quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2505	I'm going to make a quick misdemeanor because it's been mentioned twice as much as mine has. Of course, the categories of disappointment, enthusiasm, but love is also the categories we express ourselves about. Now, if we don't want to talk about disappointments, we won't talk about love. And I'm here to talk a lot about the love of Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, it is not a disputed work of the delegation you know and the contribution of each individual, I am in order to valorise it. 12 However, I made my proposal on the basis of Article 17. The Rules of Procedure, which says the College is in charge of achieving co-operation with the House of Representatives, including holding joint meetings of both homes on request and holding joint colleges. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. The appointment of a BiH delegation to the Council of Europe is an evident and obvious eclative example of work both colleges should do, coordination needs to be done by the College. Mr Bruno Haler's letter, which arrived in Sarajevo on June 18th, and Bruno Haler is the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, states that we have 5 delegates certified in the Council of Europe, but whether they are members, whether they are deputies, should be the Parliamentary Assembly to determine, to confirm. Therefore, it is unclear status. For this reason and the obvious fact that we have come to hold this plenary session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe under such circumstances, I have presented this proposal. Of course, we can vote against this proposal here today, but the story does not end because this debate and investigation is also going to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. It would be very good for the arguments to come from here and our attitudes to come. because no matter what we decide, the Council of Europe is being debated and investigated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2506	I thank Mr. Genjac. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'm closing the debate on the agenda. We're going to a plea. First, we declare ourselves on the requirements for amending the agenda. Mr Genjac's first request was to reach a conclusion on the deadline within which the Council of Ministers will submit a report on the implementation of the 2001 budget. Is there a date for the promoter? Who's to make this a part of the agenda? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? - 2 I realize we adopted, so it can't write, it says 11, and you're telling me 10. So Mr. Genjac's proposal was adopted to make this a part of the agenda. So it's going to be the last in the regular place, since the promoter didn't propose, I suggest that it be the point of the 22nd agenda. Mr Halid Genjac's second proposal was to determine responsibility for violating the BiH delegation's reputation in the Council of Europe, which occurred by unconfirmation, by failing to complete the delegation within the required time. Who's to make this a part of the agenda? - Two for who's against it? Who's being held back? Two for, eight against, three abstentions. I find that this point has not gotten most of it and cannot become an integral part of the agenda. We plead on Mr Dragutin Rodić's proposal – Report of the Joint Commission on the conclusion of an agreement on the single text of the Law on Administrative Procedure as well as a report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of an agreement on the single text of the Law on Administrative Disputes. Who is it that these two points of the agenda are classified reports? - 13 Unanimously, so it becomes an integral part of the agenda. 13 Please be patient to listen to one another. Ibrahim Spahić's proposal – Selection of a delegation to the Council of Europe and the deputy in the delegation. Who's in? Who's against it? Four for, four against, who's restrained?-- four abstentions I konstatuj that this did not become an integral part of the agenda. So, ladies and gentlemen, we propose a statement on the agenda and the additions we adopt. Who's in favor of the proposed order and the adopted additions? _____________________: There is another proposal – removing the resolution from the agenda. [[speaks from place]] I don't have it in writing, but here's what we'll say if the delegates agree. So Mr. Genjac requests that the 20th item of the agenda be removed. Who's that? - for the 3 who's against? - 9 versus Who's abstentioned? - 1 abstention I konstatovati that this proposal by Mr. Genjac is not accepted. We declare the agenda you received in the proposal with the additions we adopted. Who's on the agenda like this? – I unanimously suggest a break of 10 minutes for the service to type the agenda as we adopt it. Let's not continue the agenda to win once we have to start doing the right thing. So 10 minutes to get the agenda on the table to go from point to point. [[/pause 10 minutes.]] I suggest we go. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad. 1. The answers to the delegates' questions and delegates' questions Answers to the previous questions were given to delegates Nikola Špirić, Ibrahim Spahić and Dragutin Ilić. Of course (Rogić) asked me if we were satisfied with the answers. There were no other answers. So I'm opening the agenda for asking new delegates questions as part of this delegate's watch. Here you go. 14 The word has Mr. Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2508	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, between the two meetings of this House one group of MPs and delegates of the United States more specifically delegates in this House Dr Genjac and myself and the MP at the House of Representatives of Professor Neimarli, we had the need to hold a press conference in Parliament, using our rights as MPs and delegates. At this press conference, we met the public about some non-disciplineities that happened in our court regarding the presentation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and two days later I was really amazed by the fact that three MPs, or delegates of the press conference, sent the Department of Public Relations to this Parliament. I, the existence of the Public Relations Department in this Parliament, understand, above all, in the context that this department is available to the public with all the facts relating to Parliament's work. I have never and in no way been able to understand, and for me it is completely out of my mind that a section of my Parliament on behalf of Parliament is having a debate with me as a member of this Parliament. After reading that statement in the paper and that alleged response from the department, I ask myself a question – am I not a delegate to this house or is this department not a department of this Parliament? This department cannot lead the controversy on behalf of Parliament with a member of Parliament. It is contrary to the democratic principles on which this Parliament is founded and I have come out here for a pay phone to say this to the public, because if we continue with this practice, or you who created it if you continue with this practice then you are taking a very dangerous risk, at risk of this Parliament establishing a fully anti-democratic practice. I am asking the College of this House to consider this situation in co-operation with the College of Representatives, and I want you to inform me by next session that this could have happened in our Parliament. I repeat after that statement, the dilemma for me is - either I am not a member of this Parliament or that department is not the service of this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2509	I thank Mr. Džaferović. I would ask him to deliver a delegate question in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2510	I apologize if I may have a word? I came for the pay phone myself. Thank you. I think, Mr. Chairman, there's no need for me to write you anything. This is our internal communication in front of the public, at Parliament's session. This, you've given us an interpretation that we can't ask questions to the members of the College. I don't agree with that, but I respect that, is that why this is not a delegate issue, this is simply a request from me as a member of this House within my rights to you as chairman, the current chairman of this House to do so for the delegate of this House. That's it. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2511	I thank you, of course. I have no reason, nor do I want to pummel. The agenda item is the answer to the delegate issues and the delegate issues of all other initiatives can be a special point of the agenda. So I don't think so, but the Rules of Procedure is a thing that we all have to respect for me and all the delegates. Of course there's no reason not to answer every asked delegate's question, at least I stand up for it. Who's next to the word? Mr. Rodić, then Mr. Ilić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2512	Since I didn't get an answer to a delegate's question that I asked two sessions ago, and there's no Council of Ministers here today, what I'm about to say is just to record myself in a stenogram, otherwise I delivered it in writing two sessions ago. In fact, it is a very sensitive issue, and to this day there is no answer to it. A treaty on mutual rights and obligations was signed between the Republika Srpska and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina funds in 99. The contract was simply taken down by the Board of Directors of the PIO Fund. But to date, there are no initiatives by the Council of Ministers and the government of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina to sit down and try to resolve certain things the way they should be resolved. I have to tell you that this is a very serious issue, because this is about achieving the rights of returnees and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska, and I think that there is something that needs to be done about it at the most recently. The only option is to ask a delegate question. Otherwise, the practice is that we get very little answers to questions, and it seems to me that this practice as it has been so far continues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2513	Thank you. I ask you to ask the delegate questions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so in writing, that this is not a delegate's tribune, otherwise we would call it that. So in writing. So there must still be a request in writing to ask for an answer. Thank you very much. A delegate, Mr. Ilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2514	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the delegates, distinguished guests. I rarely ask delegate questions, and I must express my disdain that I have not received an adequate answer to any of the delegative questions so far. I asked at the 15th session two very specific questions that could be answered specifically, and the question was: - How many apartments were owned by the Socialist Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina Assembly? - Who's the beneficiary of these apartments today? 16 - Is the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH a legal follower of the SRBiH Assembly and, if so, has it taken measures to return the apartments in question to its property? I've got such an unmistakable answer here from which absolutely nothing can be concluded. The answer was signed by the secretary of the Joint Service, Mr Vedran Hadžović. Indeed, another question of mine that I asked was these property laws that corrected injustice on one side against people who were violently left without their property, and on the other hand, violence was made against those who were real property owners, which is state-owned enterprises, i.e. then social enterprises and institutions that bought and built apartments for their workers. Today we have a situation where these people who legally get apartments from their institutions are being thrown out on the street, people are coming back, housing rights to people who left before the war from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and they're speculating, selling and getting rich at the expense of society, and these people are going to the streets today. Niko of the politicians in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as far as I know, have done anything to correct this non-selective law that has been passed by the High Representative in that section and that injustice. I am once again taking this opportunity, since I have not received an adequate answer to this question, and I believe that the Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina must take care of its assets as well as any other institution, that this issue is once again, please, especially Mr Belkić, a member of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, yes, and the Presidency of this issue, because among others I have addressed, see once again what can be done to correct this injustice and to prevent this faceless manipulation and the creation of conditions for the wealth of some people who have not earned it, and on the other hand we leave people on the street who are neither guilty nor liable as professionals of these businesses or institutions from getting legal ways of those apartments.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2515	I thank the delegate, Ilić. Mr. First Deputy Chairman Ilija Šimić came to the floor, so Mr. Jusufović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2516	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Belkić and dear guests,
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2517	I'm asking you to listen to the speakers, so let's take a break for a chat.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2518	I'll čekaću. I'll wait. I'll wait. So for the brief text here to say so to Mr. Džaferović who is not a question, I also offer a short text that is not an answer. I would like to say that Mr. Džaferović's surprise was completely shared, and when it came out in the newspaper a statement in response to the three envoys, I had the same dilemma, or not at all a dilemma, but it would have been a greater shame if I had reacted publicly. I didn't know as a member of the College for such an answer, and some of the members of the College did not know. I do not know who the author of the text is, or it is known that the service that she has signed, and as a member of the College, I have a lot of understanding and I do not think that such things can happen to us and that the services must refer to the public and representatives in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in the position and in the ordinary public communication. 17 I think, because of the public that Mr Džaferović spoke about, Mr Spahić, I therefore think because of the public that Mr Džaferović spoke about, because it was a public fact that I had to and I have a need and a desire to make this public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2519	I thank Mr. Šimić, and I share his view of the problem that he has highlighted, so Džaferović. There's no need for me to get into this, we're gonna have this at the House of Peoples College. I beg you, then, not to open the replica, this is a question, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2520	So, Mr. Chairman, I would like to thank Mr. Šimić's College member for his correctness. Šefik Džaferović did not go out for this pay phone for himself. I'm over that thing already. I have come out for a pay phone for this House and possibly bad and ugly practices that can continue in this House. And I ask you to stop this sort of thing and thank you once again for the correctness of Mr. Šimić. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2521	Thank you. If a lot of things could be prevented that I want it to look quite different, but unfortunately, in this country, there are far more complex relationships than we think. Mr. Munib Jusufović came to us for his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2522	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen. I'm going to ask a question that I've already asked on one occasion, but the situation about it has changed something about the border crossing issues in Brcko. Well, let me explain briefly what this is all about. Several months ago, there was a closure of the Brcko border crossing, which is otherwise the first-class border crossing for certain technical reasons, at least as indicated. In fact, it was one-sided by saying the unilateral decision of the Republic of Croatia which closed that border crossing justifying it by certain technical assumptions about portability. For months it lasted activities where OHR was included in the good part, carried out by the OHR Office in Brcko supervisor, the Brcko District government and SFOR. Finally, the matter was resolved on mutual satisfaction in one direction by certain experts finding that the previous decision was not in line. Certain reconstructions have been carried out so that the issue of portability has now been removed from the agenda and the issue between the authorities of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina has been resolved. But with that thing, it's absolutely not solved. The bearability issue has been resolved, but no one has mentioned the question of returning the high tariff goods. The rest is liquid fuel and all other high tariffs. It's simply a frozen question. On several persistent attempts by supervisors for Brcko, i.e. the OHR and the Brcko District Government, the Council of Ministers has not taken any action on this issue. 18 My question is in fact – What has the Council of Ministers, or a particular ministry, taken on this issue despite persistent insistence, means both OHR and SFOR, etc. And the Brcko District Government, because the Brcko District budget is significantly disrupted, over 30%? Here I would also take the opportunity to ask Mr Belkić as the chairman of the BiH presidency to also influence the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers, in particular that the District is a territory under the direct sovereignty of the presidency. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2523	I appreciate it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2524	Chairman Špirić has a question to ask.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2525	Ladies and gentlemen, I have repeatedly asked questions to the institutions, different institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because these issues are too difficult, so I can't get an answer, or it may affect something that is not good to talk about and what is not good to talk about in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Unfortunately, I have to say, I'm not satisfied with the answers to the questions asked so far. But here's the question I'm going to ask today about this building. So they don't have to go far to check information to give an answer. I ask the question of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Joint Affairs Service – how has the provision of catering services in Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions been resolved? - Who's the service provider? - Are the workers employed for a certain or specific time? - Have workers been reported neatly and are they paid the prescribed contributions, or have they been provided with other rights based on working relationships, annual vacations, a warm meal, transportation fees and other corresponding fees? Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, this is an institution or this is a building where there's work on black. This is an institution where money is laundered through this process. Does it really make sense that through this orphanage that provides work here, it happens in front of the eyes of parliamentarians and the Parliamentary Assembly. I'm very interested in why 20 workers of different profiles here are paid in cash a month without knowing if they're budget funds, whether they're paid for work, whether it's an act contract and how these people are even employed. This is a building that must be an example, an institution that must be an example for others in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The way it is done is not good and I am voting in favour of protecting the rights of people who are thus employed in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I'm interested in the answer, and I don't think it takes a lot of time for them to check this out and write this down. Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? He's asking a question, Mr Ibrahim Spahić. Here you go. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2527	Mr. Chairman, I would just like to remind you that the deadline for the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to respond to the interpretation of the economic and social situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which I know has been unanimously forwarded to the BiH Council of Ministers. He would pray that the College once again insists that we see when the response to the economic and social situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina will arrive and what they have done since last year. I just want to illustrate with one example.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2528	I'm asking you a delegate's question.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2529	Yes, I beg you, I have asked a delegate question, you have passed the interpretation and they have a deadline to respond to that interpretation in accordance with the business matter. I therefore remind you that you are uraging with the Department of the House of Peoples to make that answer available in writing, of course the adopted response to the request for interpretation. It's not a delegate question, I'm just reminding you of a commitment. These are questions, suggestions and delegates' questions. Second. Is the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina ready to give answers to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament on an open issue with neighbours? Here is Mr Belkić as chairman of the BiH Presidency and in the public we have received different information that is not controversial, but are important that Parliament also formally receives text from different meetings with neighbours from the East and the West. What are the issues open and what does the BiH Parliament have to do with its powers and responsibilities in this regard? This is important to me because there are many of these issues that have been resolved positively. One part of the issue is not at all how I would say that it is now being realised and in particular that it is primarily for international co-operation of stability in the region, co-operation with neighbours I think it would be useful for the BiH Parliament both on the economic and on the political, dual and any other agenda. And the third issue, which is part of the debate that was once opened, and never in fact presented – What about the list of assets that Bosnia and Herzegovina's state institutions have and how the state institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina have with regard to the state property held by different institutions was Parliament, whether the Presidency or the Council of Ministers? He has information today how this property is managed and who on behalf of it is, so time is short, but I'm not asking for an immediate answer, I'm asking to formally initiate the procedure. Here we adopt a decision on the Court of BiH, Mr Špirić supports the prosecution and the defence and other institutions. I think it is time for the registered property of BiH state institutions and BiH state in the country and in the world to finally put under good governance of Bosnia and Herzegovina's state institutions as the responsible owner. I think the questions are very precise. 20 This third question in order to have an address, I point to two, three institutions. 1. Council of Ministers, 2. The BiH presidency, not because of the importance, but because of the order itself. 3. As Parliament is known to exist from housing units to large buildings of the country, I think it is time for Parliament to deal with it in some way. There's no one else. It is not necessary to give up what belongs to the BiH state and should not disappear in various privatisation and restitution processes. I would like the BiH Parliament to be given delegates and MPs a list of the property and how and how it will be used. Who will manage the good ones. It's about today's meeting with delegates.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2530	I'm asking you to get delegate questions in writing, and whoever supports it, I guess everyone has the strength to say what they support, what they don't support. I'm asking you to leave it out of the delegate's question. Yeah, my discussions are usually great, I hope the more time runs, the more I hope Ibro learns from them. Let's go. Who's on the phone? There isn't. I therefore conclude the debate and the delegate's time to ask delegates questions. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. Ad. 2. Minutes from the 18th and 19th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina Who answers the word? Any objections to the record? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who is it to adopt the minutes of the 18th and 19th sessions? So unanimously adopted. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. Ad 3. A statement by the People's House on the Joint Commission Report of both homes on the achievement of an agreement on the identical text of the Consumer Protection Act You have received a report. The Joint Commission reached an agreement, so there was a common solution. We need to plead today. Who's in? Who's against? Who's abstentioned? So no discussion, the debate is closed. 21 I call upon you to declare by vote who is in favour? - Unanimity. I find that the law has been passed in the same text and that it can be published in the Official Messenger. We're moving to the fourth item of the agenda. Ad 4. Bosnia and Herzegovina's 100th state service law, legislators Ibrahim Spahić, Nikola Špirić, Dragutin Rodić, Goran Turjačanin and Sejfudin Tokić raditi the laws imposed by the High Representative. Delegates who proposed this request did not await a statement by the Council of Ministers. They proposed the procedure themselves, the 100th is the second procedure. It doesn't exist. I'm opening a debate. If no one answers, I'll close the argument. I call on us to make a statement first of all. Who is it to discuss this law in accordance with Article 100? - Unanimity. I suggest we now enter a plea on the State Service Act. Who's that, who's for the law? - It's jedoglasno. Thank you. We're moving to the fifth item of the agenda. Ad 5. The Law on Obdusmen BiH, Member of the 100th, proposing delegates Ibrahim Spahić, Nikola Špirić, Dragutin Rodić, Goran Turjačanin and Sejfudin Tokić, sa the same explanation. So I'm opening a debate. Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. I call on us to state who it is so that we can plead to this law in accordance with the procedure of Article 100. Rules of Procedure? - Unanimously, I would also like to invite you to make a statement about the law. Who's up for the law? Unanimity. We're moving to the sixth item of the agenda. Ad. Six. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 100, legislators Ibrahim Spahić, Nikola Špirić, Dragutin Rodić, Goran Turjačanin and Sejfudin TokićTakođe too. I'm opening a debate. Who's calling? Niko. I'm closing the debate. I call upon you to plead 22 Who is to discuss this law in accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? - Unanimously, I call upon you to plead therefore on this law in accordance with Article 100. Who's up for the law? - Unanimity. Thank you. We're moving to the seventh item of the agenda. I am sorry that there is no Mr. Džaferović to see when the agreement is good, not Džaferović, Genjac when it is a good agreement to adopt the laws. So we move to the seventh item of the agenda. Ad 7. The law on administrative fees and tariffs for administrative fees, also under Article 100, legislators Ibrahim Spahić, Nikola Špirić, Dragutin Rodić, Goran Turjačanin and Sejfudin Tokić, is the same explanation. Article 100 is required because the law is imposed by the Office of the High Representative. I'm opening a debate. Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Here's a pleasure to vote for the first time. Yes, it is. Who is it that, according to article 100, we plead to discuss it? - Unanimity. I call upon you to vote on this law? - Who's up for the adoption of the law? Fantastic. We're moving to the eighth point of the agenda. Ad. 8. The law on the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, article 100, proposed by Ibrahim Spahić and Sejfudin Tokić, I open the debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. Who is it to declare this law in accordance with Article 100? - 11 for who's against it? - No abstentions I konstatuj that this law has been passed, so the procedure has been adopted by 11 for, 1 against, no abstentions. We're moving on to law enforcement. Who's up for adoption for this bill? - 11 for who's against it? 1 Are there any abstentions? - No. I'm pleased to find out that this law has been passed. 23 We move to the ninth item of the agenda. Ad. Nine. The Law on the Foundations of the Public Radio Television System and the Public Radio Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Member of 100th, proposed delegate Ibrahim Spahić, Sejfudin Tokić, I open the debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2531	Dear Mr. President of the Presidency, the Honorable Chairman, fellow delegates, I'm sorry that I'm going to seem to spoil how it went nicely and without a breakdown and without discussion, just a vote, but it's beautiful that it would take a long time. Namely, when it comes to the law we are discussing in this item of the agenda, which is the Law on the Foundations of the Public Radio Television System and the Public TV Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was also declared by the High Representative, I must tell you that the delegates of the Serb people have a position here established at the National Assembly of the RS, which clearly obliges us to vote for this law only if certain provisions are amended. Since Article 100 does not allow for any change, and since the laws of the High Representative are mainly meant and always actually proposed under Article 100, I would like to inform this home that the Club of delegates in the order of the Serbian people cannot vote in favour of the procedure under Article 100 under this law. I also want to say the reasons why he can't. In addition to the above, the attitude of the National Assembly, we see that the law has two parts. The part relating to the system and the part relating to the service. The part relating to the system is problematic and touching in constitutional jurisdiction prescribed by the Dayton Constitution. In this section, it is therefore necessary to provide such legal solutions, which do not endanger the editorial independence of entity public services, as well as the monopoly position of public tv services. In the light of the fact that these legal solutions do not offer satisfactory solutions in this direction, therefore they are not a satisfactory Club of Delegates in the order of the Serb people will not support the debate under Article 100, i.e. they will not support the law under Article 100. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2532	I thank Mr. Novaković. Ibrahim Spahić answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2533	Mr. Chairman, I would just like to say that this bill on the basis of the Public Radio Television System and the Public Radio Service of Bosnia and Hercegovan, which was decided by the High Representative, is not only part of this logical system of declaration in the House of Peoples, I hope also in the House of Representatives, but also enables a circle of any Serb, any Bosniak, any Croatian people in the House of Nations to adopt this law by an urgent procedure appropriate proposals and amendments to amendments. If the debate on this document is blocked today, this law, any argument, and any representative is aware that this law is of the power to respect it and that there is no way that some other means of political exorcising a solution 24 past the procedure provided for under this particular Dayton Peace Agreement, and that the Supreme Arbitre is a High Representative unless Parliament has a solution to certain issues to resolve them through the law. That is why I would like to appeal to the Club, which represents Mr Novaković, that, in the best interest of those who believe that the solution in this law is not adequate today, above all, to declare by procedure by emergency procedure and how it is envisaged by the Rules of Procedure and to support this law and to adopt it as our law so that a normal parliamentary debate and amendment to this law may take place. Otherwise, this is so-called. car disqualification, as this makes it impossible to have a political interest precisely if it has any other interest or legitimate or more or less justified requirements to come into parliamentary procedure. So I would simply like to support the right of everyone in the BiH Parliament to respond to the amendments to legal projects, but when these projects are subject to conditional ownership and decision by Parliament itself. Since this is well known and since we have practically put all the laws that we have previously adopted in a position that can be processed, upgraded and changed, I would like to call once again on my colleagues to support this approach in the best interests of those who represent this procedure and to accept this law. That's the first thing. As for the problem of the system of part of this law which says – the bill or the public radio television system and the Public Radio Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which refers to a statement that is problematic to the words that when it comes to the system it is problematic from the point of view of the Constitution and the position of independence of the editorial and the argument that we have now had, I would like to say what my argument is, that this is quite the opposite, quite certain. So in that argument, we can express when we have the opportunity to see your amendments in the parliamentary procedure. We won't have them at all if you block the adoption of this law, at least not in this assembly. That's why it's my argument, it's not necessary for me to re-establish another kind of argument that would support the law itself. I call on you in the best interest of your bodies and individual organisations, the people behind such a political stance to make a positive statement about the proposal I have made and, as far as I can see, the fellow Tokić Sejfudin also supported, who is absent today. And I think it's quite clear that this argument isn't quite as firm as we've heard it comes from a letter that arrived at our session today with date 19. 6th, which refers to the Council of Ministers meeting. The chairman, Mr Dragan Mikerević, who comes from the same political environment recommends, on behalf of the Council of Europe, the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure, in accordance with the member of the relevant Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, noting all the arguments that have been conducted by me as well as my colleague, Tokić, that we recommend that this law be adopted. Since there is therefore a full political consensus in the Council of Ministers and since the logic of the parliamentary procedure creates the conditions when it is said positively about such a proposal and such a law that a debate on articles, amendments, etc. could be opened, I had the need to make these two facts as well as Mr Novaković, using an argument that is completely logical, parliamentary, founded in relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina and creating conditions for the actual work of Parliament. That's all I'm thinking. Thank you very much. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2534	Thank you, Mr Spahić. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. We're moving on to a plea. Who is it that we declare ourselves to this law in accordance with the procedure of Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? - Eight for who's against it? – 4 against the rest of us to go to the alignment, since we do not have a third member of the College, we will carry out the alignment in accordance with the business procedure and inform the House of the Peoples about it. We're going to the tenth item of the agenda. Ad. Ten. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Framework Law on the privatisation of enterprises and banks in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Article 100, proposed by delegate Sejfudin Tokić, I open the debate. Who's calling? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Who is it to make this proposal known in accordance with Article 100? - 12 for who's against it? - nemati uzdržati? So unanimity. I call upon you to state the law in accordance with the procedure of Article 100. Who's up for the law? Thank you. We're going to the 11th point of the agenda. Ad. 11th. Law amending and supplementing the Law on filling the vacant seat of the BiH presidency member, Article 100, legislator Sejfudin Tokić, I am opening the debate. This is Mr. Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2535	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, this is a law that is in force. So he was declared High Representative. We have already acted here in Parliament under this law and I will vote in favour of this law. But I can't say one thing, so I want to say here that after we adopt this law today, I am also proposing to the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers and Parliament to move immediately to change this law and to bring it into line, because the text of this law, it was made before the elections, before last elections, a month or two before, after President Izetbegović left the office of members of the Presidency and it is clear that those who created this law created it so that the candidate of the SDA can't come to that position. So that's quite clear. We've pointed to this thing, because be careful I think it's not normal at all, it's not logical that two parliamentary homes have 26 different roles in this process. This law gives priority and advantage to the House of Representatives, and it is not normal for a parliamentary assembly to rule out, say, three or four months, I don't know what time-limit it is, I think it's 120 days. If it is 120 days before the election that this parliamentary assembly does not have the right to make decisions. That was, of course, done then by those who have accumulated it with this purpose. I will vote in favour of this law today in order to strengthen this parliament only because immediately afterwards we can enter into the procedure of amending the law and be able to pass a law that will allow for a normal democratic choice of officials to which this law applies. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2536	I thank Mr. Džaferović. Who's next to the word? Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2537	Mr. Chairman, I am pleased that we have received this last interpretation that we will have the support of this legal solution with an explanation that will initiate that procedure on which I am in the previous law. But for the first part, I'd just like to say something. It is perfectly natural that in the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as in the laws followed by the constitution, the position is different from those of the two homes, because it exists in connection with what the Council of Ministers would say, as well as in relation to the political will of voters. According to the political will of the voters, it is expressed in the House of Representatives, and whenever the political will of the voters changes, it is legitimate to verify the changed will of political voters. They are not the owners of the party's mandate or individuals, but rather the will of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The will of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in a concrete case, referred to an express alliance that was formulated after these elections. It wasn't an election alliance, it was a post-election alliance. If in politics they made an exclusive right for strangers and an individual to determine the heirs and to determine the positions then they would consider the election process. That's my deep conviction. Therefore, it is no decision that I would now like to return to talk about it more widely, but again, after you have made Mr. Jaferovic's proposal, the view that you will vote to initiate this procedure will be my pleasure, as I hope to the other MPs and delegates, to then present a mutual argument and to discuss this matter. And as far as this law is concerned, the same logic that you've been doing great as a lawyer is tied up so that we should let the law go in the process of our own free will so that if the relationship of power is different, we can change it. That's what everyone's right to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2538	I thank Mr Spahić, I beg you, if I may. Please, Mr. Džaferović, let's bring him in.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2539	Well, of course, to bring the end. So I said I'd vote for this law. As for your allegations, Mr. Spahić, don't be angry, but I'm afraid you didn't understand what I was talking about. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2540	Mr Dragutin Rodić answered the question and to conclude the debate. Here you go. Let's hear from delegate Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2541	Since it's all clear about this law and that it goes according to the procedure of Article 100, but I have to say for what will follow in the amendments and additions of this law, certain illogicalities, and what happens to us when we get to be able to serve these laws that we must adopt. Here's what I'm going to tell you about when this is over and how it's going to be applied to this law. Here's what I'm going to say about article six. After the appointment at the House of Representatives, the majority of delegates at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the text of the House of Peoples who belong to the same constituent people as appointed. If the House of Nations has twice refused to confirm the appointments proposed by the House of Representatives in the third round of voting, a member of the Bureau shall be appointed as members of the House of Representatives by a majority of the votes of the delegates in the House of Peoples who are from the same constituent people as appointed. If we know what kind of Rules of Procedure we have and how we vote here in the House of Peoples, then it's clear what kind of proposal this is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2542	I thank the delegate Rodić. Who's reporting for further discussion? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. I suggest we make a statement. Who is it that this law is considered under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? - Unanimity. Thank you. We're going to make a statement about the law. Who's in favor of this law? Unanimity. Thank you. We're moving to the 12th point of the agenda. Ad. 12. The Law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, Article 100, the Proposer of the Council of Ministers, of course, said that when adopting the agenda, the base is therefore the material of the Council of Ministers which we have received and the proposals of Mr. Tokić, those two proposals that are identical. I'm opening a debate. Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Who is it to declare this law in accordance with Article 100? I ask the delegates to attend the vote. Unanimity. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you. 28 I suggest we make a statement about the law. Who's up for the law? Unanimity. I thank the delegates. We're moving to the 13th point of the agenda. Ad. 13th. The Law on Legal Assistance in Official Co-operation in Criminal Matters between the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska and the Brcko District, Article 100, legislators Nikola Špirić, Dragutin Rodić, Goran Turjačanin and Sejfudin Tokić, therefore, is about the same reasoning as other laws imposed by former High Representative. I'm opening a debate. Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who is to make this law known in accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? So unanimously, 12 for, no one against, no one abstention. We're going to make a statement about the law. Who's in favor of this law? I would pray when I am told unanimously to say the number of delegates to serve. So 13 delegates for, no one abstention, no one against. This law has been passed. We're going to the 14th point of the agenda. Ad. 14. Declaration by the House of Nations on the consideration under Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Air Force of BiH, Proposer of the Council of Ministers I open the debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who is it that decides on this law of the House of Nations in a shortened procedure, so Article 99. Rules of Procedure? - Nine for who's against it? - 3 v. So there's most going to the alignment. There's no entity majority. I suggest that we do not have a third member of the College to comply with the Rules of Procedure. That's what we'll do and let Dom know. So we move to the 15th point of the agenda. Ad. 15. Declaration by the House of Nations on the consideration under Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Law on Veterinary of BiH, Proposer of Council of Ministers 29 I open the debate. No one's answering for a hearing. I'm closing the debate. I suggest we make a statement. Who is it that, by a brief procedure, we plead on this legal project? - 12 So unanimous. I suggest we make a point now who's in favor of the law? Oh, he's going in a short procedure, I'm sorry. Lapsus, my mistake. So we have decided unanimously to discuss this law in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. We're going to the 16th point of the agenda. Ad. 16. The agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of Germany on achieving and protecting investments with the protocol, Proposer of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, so we are required to ratify this agreement. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Who is it to ratify this contract, or agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of Germany on achieving and protecting investments with each other on a proposal from the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency? - 12 for, no one abstention, no one against. So we have carried out a unanimous ratification of this agreement. We're going to the 17th point of the agenda. Ad. 17. The Amending Agreement to the Loan Treaty dated 2 November 2000 between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Bosnia and Herzegovina, proposed by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with one explanation that the Republika Srpska Parliament has ratified this amendment and I have no information as to whether Parliament is a Federation. I think so. I think it would, if it were a sign for delegates, if the entity parliaments had also ratified that we would do the same. I'm opening a debate. Niko one's answering for a word. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who's in favor of ratifying this agreement? – 12 I therefore conclude that we unanimously ratified the Agreement on the Amendment to the Loan Treaty dated 2 November 2000 between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Bosnia and Herzegovina. 30 We move to the 18th point of the agenda. Ad. 18. The agreement between the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on international road transport of passengers and cargo, proposed by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina I open the debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Novaković, then Mr. Ilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2543	Fellow delegates my discussion is not aimed at contesting the provisions of this agreement and it is not disputed for me. What is controversial here is the terminology that has been used, which is not constitutional terminology for our conditions, of course. We have warned several times that and asked for constitutional terminology to be used for our institutions, and among other things for the institution of the Council of Ministers or the Council of Ministers or the Council of Ministers. Depends on what we call it here and what we call it. This is the second agreement in the last month that has entered the procedure, which mentions the term of the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We don't mind the term when it's stopped to use it, of course. The explanation we received on the previous protocol and the dispute on the Commission for Financial and Administrative Affairs by some institutions did not convince me that it was necessary and that it was just a matter of translation. Because if it were then the force of these other agreements would have treated it the same way, even the one just before in the 16th point of the agenda would not have been the agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina, but between the government and I don't know either. etc. It's obvious that's not the case. What's indicative of me is that behind the previous one, Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija is behind this. So that was during he was the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Because the rest of the text is not disputed we will not dispute and because of the importance of the agreement itself we will not dispute the agreement. But once again, I want to warn from this place that our language is translated into the terminology used in our constitution. It is not disputed for us if the German language will be written by the government, but let the Council of Ministers write in our language. At least we can do that, and that shouldn't be controversial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2544	I thank delegate Novaković. The word is Mr. Delegate Dragutin Ilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2545	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, I would only remind myself of the Commission's position on foreign and trade policy. We have reached one conclusion by referring to this agreement in the further parliamentary procedure and have asked the competent ministry of the Council of Ministers for information on how to issue and the conditions for issuing transport permits for both freight and passenger. Unfortunately, we haven't received that yet, and it has been a condition that the Commission supports this agreement to prepare it by the House of Peoples session. It means today's session. I cannot now seek, on behalf of the Commission, or only to request a break so that the Commission, since we have not received a report on this issue, but in that conclusion, in this conclusion, that we have formulated it, the Commission could not stand behind this agreement. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2546	I'm thanking you. I would pray, of course, if we can avoid political stories about this agreement. If we declare ourselves willing to ratify the prozama, let us do so, and leave all other stories out of this agreement. I beg you, this will best let us know that, it will be our greatest contribution. I'm asking Mr. Novaković not to replicate. I wasn't thinking about him, I was thinking about the announced discussions. If it is already said that it will vote for ratification and suggested by the authorities to keep an eye on it, I think it is enough that we do not open political stories today. I'm asking you to conclude, if you don't mind. I thank you all for giving up. We're closing the debate. We're going to a plea. Please. We're closing the debate. Who is it to ratify this agreement? Who's in? He discussed it, didn't give up the discussion. The debate is closed. Who's in favor of ratifying the agreement, please? Who's in favor of ratification? I'm begging you, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2547	(speaks from place)
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2548	Can I? There's no problem. Whoever's looking for a break has the right to rest. We got an OHR explanation and we got different explanations. We'll have enough suggestions to ratify the deal after the break. That's why I think it's a good thing we do it now. Here's a break, how many 10 minutes. [[pause]] I suggest we continue our work. We have a quorum. The commission asked for a break. Please report to the Commission. The chair of the Commission shall submit a report so that we can complete this agenda item.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2550	Mr. Chairman of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy held a consultation and concluded that it supports ratification of the agreement, with the conclusion that our request is respected and that the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications provides the requested information on the conditions and method of issuing licences for transport in freight and passenger transport. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2551	I thank the President-in-Office of the Commission. We move to a plea after this encouraging position of the Commission. Who is to ratify the agreement between the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany in international road transport of passengers and cargo. Who's in? - 12 for who's against it? No abstentions? No. So unanimously we have ratified this agreement. It says "Government." I have to read what it says. So I've been taught, and we've had discussions and suggestions today, and I hope that the relevant one will learn from the debate. We're going to the 19th agenda. Ad. 19. Information on the situation in the area of immigration and asylum in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Proposer of the Council of Ministers, I open the debate even though there is no proposal. They are occupied by the debate on amendments and additions to the Election Act, which in some ways justifies them. You've got the material. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Here you go. Mr. delegate Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2552	Dear colleagues, the usual practice to consider information on the realization of Annex VII useful,
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2553	Information on refugees and asylum is not Annex VII.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2554	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2555	No problem. Okay. I thank Mr. Genjac. He had a debate on the second agenda. We'll get to her. I'm closing the debate. Who's to adopt information? – 13 So we unanimously adopted the Information on the state of immigration and asylum in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 33 We are crossing the 20th point of the agenda. Ad. 20. Resolution on the original financing of institutions and international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, legislator Sejfudin Tokić, I am opening the debate. Mr. Jerko Ivanković, chairman of the committee in charge, answered the words, so Mr. Ibrahim Spahić. Maybe Ibro quit after the Commission's position.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2556	The Honorable Chairman, chairman of the presidency, fellow envoys, distinguished guests. The Commission for Finance and Administrative Affairs considered the Resolution and adopted the amendment to the resolution you received in writing. It then concluded that a resolution on the original financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and international obligations, proposed by Sejfudin Tokić, with the Commission's accepted amendment, which became an integral part of the resolution, was directed into a further parliamentary procedure and proposed that the House adopt the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2557	I thank the President-in-Office of the Commission. Is there any need for further discussion? Mr. Spahić, then Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2558	Mr President, I would like to say that this is a great resolution, that the Commission amendment is very precise and, at the same time, I hope that before the term of office, these laws of particular tax law will continue to be on the agenda of this house and of each other and would like to strongly support the operational work of several of these laws. And I express my confidence that we, as the Constitutional and Legal Committee, will get any from the Council of Ministers, either from the Financial Affairs Commission, the proposals of these laws as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2559	I thank Mr Spahić. Word has a delegate, Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2560	Dear Chairman, fellow delegates of the report, I will comment on the Commission's report since the Commission's report says that the Commission has adopted this report with 5 votes for, therefore, one vote against. Since I was that voice against, then this is how I want to explain my voice. In recent times, there has been the presence of strong resolutions delivered to this home, which are delivered in the procedure and thus express political views, whether individuals, whether or not individual parties. It seems to me that we have entered the election campaign process and that it now seems very current. When it comes to a competitive resolution, I'll explain why she's unacceptable to me. The first unacceptable is any spillover of the entity's budget revenue into Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions' budget. Why? The situation in the entity's budget is such that they and with 34 of these revenues cannot fulfil all the obligations they face. Taking part of the revenue would make this situation far worse and, of course, make it impossible to function normally. In this way, the funds actually taken would reduce the possibility of that other form, which is the grant of funds by entities. So we'd get something on one side, which, of course, we would lose on the other side. If it's us, we're starting from being motivated to take the money without it being the motive of politics. I'm afraid there's a policy motive here. Because how else do you explain the need for a resolution if not, of course, as Mr. Sejfudin Tokić's political stance which I can, I respect. But if it is taken even after the report, so after the change in its content that we are giving orders to institutions that are in the nature of the job in charge of doing the job, which is to pass the laws, then this resolution has a completely different sound. Niko one defends gentlemen to the Council of Ministers that the Council of Ministers proposes these laws. It's his normal part of his work. If they don't want it, and the Commission's argument was that the Council of Ministers didn't want it, so we need to support it a little bit, then we need to ask ourselves why they don't want it, not that we support them and force them to do it. These are the questions now new that opens this resolution. New questions from where the funds came from. There are no new gentlemen's funds. There are no new taxes, or there are. Are we going to introduce new taxes? If we're going to introduce new taxes, or raise existing taxes, then I'm not up for it. And if institutions newly formed at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina are to introduce fees then they do not need a resolution. They can introduce that, that is to say, laws that will be introduced here. This is more like one, one political game, a political game. Of course, we need laws here, not pre-election campaigns, and I could turn the discussion in some other direction right now so we can tell another story, what's in accordance with the Constitution, if it isn't etc. And so on, who needs this, who doesn't need this, and I don't know it. It's all political stories now that I don't want to talk about. What I am trying to say is that I will not support this resolution for those reasons, I also said to the Commission, I did not support it either, and I expect that the number of resolutions will decrease and that the number of quality solutions agreed between us will increase. I told the Commission, that's what I want to say here, the resolution would have been acceptable if someone here had written that the funds would be provided or increased taxes or taxes or customs duties etc. in agreement between the entities. Or we want to take it without asking them anything. That is why I will not support this resolution. Of course, the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be funded with and without a resolution, but they will not be without the law and that is what we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2561	I thank delegate Novaković. The word was requested by the chairman of the presidency, Mr Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2562	Dear Presidency, honourable delegates, I would like to inform the House of People about some of the activities that the Presidency as an institution led. I will absolutely refrain from saying so, or avoiding any politicization of things. On several occasions, the presidency launched a request to the Council of Ministers for the legal regulation of the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions in accordance with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which allows it to do so 35. The bottom line is, I sort of agree with Mr. Novaković and Mr. Spahić. A declaration is welcome to support certain activities, etc. The bottom line is that we have received the latest information from the Council of Ministers, which tells us that the support of the European Commission and the provision of expert assistance and financial assistance is a project, i.e. a feasibility study for the adoption of a legal project. It is a huge job, probably, from the point of view of the need for comprehensive observation of overall public spending and public income in BiH in general, and there is Mr. Novaković quite right. All public spending and public revenues must be seen as a system and see how much this country can, in general, finance public spending and in this context will come to a conclusion very quickly, because we have to complete the administration reform in the BiH state to do, start with municipalities, cantons, entities etc. So, for your information, the Council of Ministers is working on this project, the Presidency is monitoring and constantly supporting and seeking. It is good and... consensus that it is necessary to do so, however, it is very important that it is systematically done not to fall under the problem. There's one more thing I want to tell you that the Presidency has warned and pointed to a complete logic that we don't stick to. Niko one's following it, no one's analyzing it, probably because of the system's failure. When a specific function is transferred from the entity, it is no longer there. Therefore, all that entities have spent must be transparently and clearly transferred to the state and to the people and resources, etc. What happens to us? A certain function is transferred to the state institution, something remains in entities and is financed and there is no way that in one place we have an overview of what it is that has stopped spending in entities, whether or not the state has fully taken over it. We have a situation now, you will see, the BiH Court will take over certain things that entities have done. The Agency for Protection and Information will take over the work done by the entities and I don't see any extra new costs. So it's just important to observe the whole thing and ask the Council of Ministers to follow closely the transfer of certain functions to the state of entity governments. So, I only wanted to give you a few informations, to keep in mind what seems to be through the Presidency and the Council of Ministers when it comes to funding the BiH state institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2563	I would like to thank the chairman of the presidency, Mr. Belkic.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2564	The word has the chairman Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2565	Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the resolution on the original financing of BiH institutions, I would like to say that I do not dispute the legality or legality of the proposing to propose a resolution. But what could at this point be controversial is that the resolutions that claim to be a political document can do more harm than benefit projects that are under way in BiH. Funding BiH institutions is a complex job. He is intruding in the reform of the BiH administrative apparatus, which he strongly warned at the BiH Parliament's plenary session of the new High Representative, Mr. Eždaun. The way we also have the original revenues of BiH as the creator of the resolution thoughts is not enough to finance everything that BiH has from the administrative apparatus. 180 governments, ministries, I don't know 10-15 governments from canton levels, entities, etc. and this process will require a lot of effort, a lot of work and a lot of political arrangements and a lot of political 36 compromises. The way in which we resolution right before elections we want to issue a warrant to those responsible for doing their job is not good. I wish we were dissatisfied with the way we work by proposing legal projects in this area, we launched an initiative of responsibility for those whose task it is. That would also indicate the seriousness of this House. That's why I don't think it's good, given that it's working and I think that the international community is investing in funding these projects so that we simply don't politically pour oil on fire and I think that the serious parliament will appreciate, first of all, the seriousness of those who help us and want to reform the administrative apparatus to the end. I think it's going to take, of course, a lot of talks with the entities. These talks are already being held and I think people are aware that certain activities, what Mr. Chairman of the Presidency has been talking about at BiH level, require the transfer of financial resources to ensure that this activity and people and resources are financed. That's why I'm not ready to, whenever anyone comes to terms with a resolution rather than thinking about whether or not the debate is going to do more harm than the adoption. I think BiH institutions should be given a chance to do their job and we should do everything in this pre-election campaign to maintain the working continuity of the House, to adopt the necessary legal projects. It seems to me that today we have done a good part of the job by adopting these legislative projects that have been imposed and, hopefully, the next session will be productive, because we have a number of legal projects that we have adopted to discuss the shortened procedure. If the next session is as productive as today, I believe that the need for resolutions will be less and less. There, that's my attitude. So, I won't, I won't simply discuss the essence of the resolution, because I don't think it came to a good time, when serious efforts are made, serious talks to come to a compromise, when the international community is strongly funding projects and wants us to come to reform and administrative and other systems in BiH that, of course, the resolution wants us to fascinate everything. I don't think that in BiH we can fascinate anyone but by working to adopt legal projects. Thank you very much and it will be my definitive position on the resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2566	First of all, I would like to say to the gentlemen chair that when a committee of Parliament, such as the Commission on Financial Affairs, the Material Commission on International Relations or the Constitutional and Legal Commission stands behind a document, we discussed it and we had this resolution in the procedure we returned it to the Commission, the Commission discussed it and adopted it with a vote that the relationship of power in this Parliament is a position to recommend to the House of Peoples to adopt that resolution. We should once start respecting our working bodies and that commission, of course, could say no. She could say we have a lot of problems, etc. But we gave this resolution back to one of the competent committees to give their opinion. She said a positive opinion. I stood up, following a statement by the president of that committee to support this process, not intending to enter what you all entered after that. I must make it clear that it is nice that the High Representative and the Economist around him is working on reforms of the entire BiH Dministration, etc. There is no dispute there, but I must remind you, the foundation of parliamentary life is that the laws are in our hands. I said, proposing that this resolution be supported, yes, or the Commission on Financial Affairs or the Council of Ministers or the Presidency or each of us individual delegates come out as soon as possible with clear legislative proposals. Of course, the High Representative, who has international finances as a partner, supports the process and the work. So I don't argue, but I wanted to say that the spirit of this resolution is something other than the legs we're talking about right now. This is the original funding resolution. I would only like to say to Mr. Novaković that it is not about 37 transfer of funds from entities to the state of BiH, but about the original financing of BiH institutions. Today it's the Court on the agenda. sutraće will be the Prosecutor's Office, the D.A., the Central Prison and other interesting institutions, and in that sense I think that as users of these services, either the Central Prison or the D.A., the Prosecutor's Office, the citizens of BiH will be interested in the human working conditions, the same as in the Central Prison as in the Constitutional Court. I think we're talking about the essence of the resolution. This is the original funding and since there is no motion for a resolution, and I am sincerely supportive of this Commission proposal and I still want to draw attention to the same fact that we have said. This resolution will not shake anyone politically, it will not bring new political points to anyone. This isn't an election campaign. Let's not start with that. You spoke wonderfully of Mr Špirić about the need for change in these ministries all etc. So you know I'm a supporter of having this one government and I'm thinking of a big city of three and a half million and 500,000 to 800,000 people out there that we have one good mayor one government with one 12 ministerial assistants and it all works fine. What we've done to the state doesn't need an analysis and study to prove to us by the High Representative, the international community and experts, that we live in a monstrous system of administrative justice. You, as an expert in this area, know yourself that this is a correct effort, to take functions that are supernatural that are state-owned with original incomes. It's a perfectly normal, legitimate position. Secondly, I pray that whenever something is found, whenever a system is introduced and whenever a state or other level institution is brought to the service of citizens' interests, political issues are immediately created. I very well-intentionedly want to say that this is about the character of a resolution that warns the word as the original funding and that we are finally establishing a system in which we will be a service and not some... organization, at least... or High Representative or anyone else. I wouldn't faint at all because of what the High Representative is doing, but I would say. Our obligation as Parliament to make laws, to prepare these legislative projects with the Council of Ministers and the Presidency and to disband that high representative and those experts of great power, rather than support something here in this commission that they propose. I, therefore, once again support that our committee that supported this proposal has an authentic and good position and I will vote as you have said unarped for what it will vote for, as I have publicly supported this proposal. He's very reasonable, very reasonable. No politics, no politicizing. In this resolution there is no pre-election campaign, it is, all the arguments we have heard are very clear from all the participants in the discussion and I think it would be correct to support one resolution that says. BiH's state institutions need laws that will introduce original funding, which once emancipate from stories in every moment of everything. Bog's gonna give the tax system a reform. There'll be a number of ministries with me, etc. and I fully support this approach by Mr Špirić, and because of the essence, therefore, contrary to what Mr Špirić said and I support this resolution. Quite the opposite, because my argument is, precisely that there is nothing here that we call for and why we are against the discussion of the essence of the resolution, etc. The essence of the resolution is the original financing of the state institutions here and how do they get to them in what way? What system of laws? Who's going to be the promoter? How are we gonna push that? Who's gonna be active and who's gonna be passive? Who will hold hands as fast as they can when the High Representative's proposal arrives? There are, of course, real things again aren't... and that's where we're going to live this sage or some other, but the resolution is, as I would say, with a shaved intention and doesn't lead any way to hell. It leads to one normal, rational policy, in which simply one MP appealed through statements, because there is no other way. He can't discuss laws that aren't on the agenda. The only way to express his attitude to the resolution. We can challenge that, but the fact is that it is legitimately right to say to the resolution what he thinks about one problem and in that sense I fully support him and the commission, I underline, no matter what internal power schedule he was and I respect the various 38 arguments that have been made about the resolution, but I would like to respect a little bit of his own red body more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2567	Mr. Špirić has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2568	Ladies and gentlemen, I think respect for the working bodies means listening to that working body's position and having it in mind when it comes to pleading. I see no reason that no one here has anything against the position of the working bodies of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. I want to say that the original funding of BiH institutions is a constitutional category, not a matter defined by resolutions. Mr Spahić knows that, too. In order to change that, the Constitution must be amended. The amendments to the Constitution are made in a very different way and it is not impossible. We have shown that in BiH it is possible, surely, and of course there is a need for political dialogue, a compromise at different levels is needed. I'm saying that the resolution won't solve anything, it'll bring oil to the fire. The budget deficit of the BiH institution for the past year is 50 million. You know why. Because everyone has the right to imagine BiH. But it must develop in line with real resources, so we had a need for the Border Service that we supported, so it was said that the international community would donate in the first year and in the second year said, "Here, gentlemen, close out of the budget, no funds." I also know how big a financial get is in BiH. Next, the resistor of the resolution came up with that information, so he says. To finance the existing BiH institutions, 100m or 200m are missing. To get that in the bag of BiH, we need to open a political dialogue and say which original income belongs to BiH. That would be a resolution for me, a research piece and what BiH needs, and we here politically give orders without figures, without knowing how we're going to close the budget deficit for the past year, gentlemen, that's breaking down what we've achieved. We'll tell nice stories to the ugly. You know, this institution needs to develop, it needs an institution, and there it is, everything when we add up who needs to pay, where the funds can't be solved by the resolution. Let's get out of that dead end. It's a constitutional category I repeat. It is not forbidden to change the constitution, but, I mean, in the election campaign, to go to resolutions on every item that opens political stories is not good. I would respect, therefore, that the promoter has said which is financial... which must be closed and in what way, and we all know that institutions must finance themselves. You'll see when we get to the agenda for last year's budget implementation and we adopted Mr. Genjac's proposal today, what kind of analysis we're going to get. It will be a negative response to the attempt by the resolution to solve something for BiH citizens publicly from the speaker that we are concerned about their fates, and we have committed gentlemen to existing institutions 50 million more than there have been real sources. Niko one argues that people propose resolutions and see what we get. And, resolutions, too, must have part of the research within themselves. There can't be a list of political desires so if we were such a happy country that we could agree on anything, there wouldn't be a resolution. And, of course, for every original income, BiH will need a lot of dialogue in line with the BiH Constitution. Why this dialogue has not been opened before don't ask me, but the way we want to solve BiH's problems through resolution is the story of a foggy story for those who today are turning the containers and looking for bread bark. I'm not into that kind of story. Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Mr. Džaferović. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2569	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have suggested from about two or three months here for this speaker that our home adopts one conclusion that, on occasion, would mean support to the Council of Ministers for the development of the project, because I think it is a project concerning the original financing of the institutions of the BiH state. My proposal wasn't accepted then in this home. It seems to me that even then dom Chairman gospodin Tokić did not vote in favour of the proposal, probably just because I was the promoter of that conclusion. If I were to behave in the manner that Tokić was acting today, I should probably be against this resolution today too, but I will not be against that resolution just because its proponent, Mr Tokić, is, by the way, who, by the way, and for no reason calls his colleagues from this Parliament publicly on television to criminals and thieves. Mr. Tokić and I will discuss this in the right place. I'm going to talk about this resolution today from the point of view of this country's interest and I'm not going to look back on who its proposer is. The original financing of BiH institutions is necessary. This is a slow none of us here and I think it was much better to adopt that conclusion then and that the Council of Ministers as an expert institution has entered into the design of the project, which will mean the original financing of BiH institutions. I don't know if this resolution will help, but it's not too much and it doesn't hurt, and that's why I'm voting for this resolution. I think that in BiH, when it comes to the distribution of public revenues, customs, taxes, there will be a proper redistribution to finance institutions that are necessary for the BiH state. This simply must come because I cannot accept the thesis that Mr Špirić said earlier that BiH institutions can develop as much money as we have money. It's an unacceptable thesis for me. It's the thesis that prefers the status quo. We must have a normal functional state with all the necessary institutions and funds for it will be and there will be, because if we are to fund the State Border Service in quality and close the rest of BiH's unclosed state border and close over four hundred secret crossings through which goods enter BiH will then be money for financing BiH institutions. If we make one customs service in BiH. We have a single customs policy and customs tariff in BiH. We have an entity customs service, which can be avoided because there is no unique mechanism of functioning in customs charge. A lot of what, there will be money to fund BiH institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2570	I apologize to Mr Spahić for losing the quorum. poslvonik is clear when we lose the quorum.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2571	Can I go on?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2572	Okay, okay, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2573	So we can't approach this issue just on the formal side, or on the formal point of view. We have to watch and we have to look at the essence. As much money as 40, because we don't have an organised state in the way it should be organised spills into private pockets and into other funds and sources, therefore, so much money, if we make the effort and organize the state as it should be to come into the state and enable the financing of its institutions. It's our task here and it's essentially posturing this problem and this thing. That is why I will, given that this resolution does not hurt to support this resolution and I will vote for it. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2574	I have a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2575	Replica Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2576	I don't think Mr. Džaferović understood me, or there was a misunderstanding. I said BiH institutions will develop as much money as they do. There's no dispute here. Whether it needs more money and how to provide it is the question we are talking about, but it cannot be spent outside the budget by gentlemen in BiH. It's called crime. You can't get someone to counter the consumption this year for the next one. There's no such thing in any country in the world. And if we're going to reach a political agreement inside BiH, it's up to us. So it's impossible for institutions to finance themselves if they don't have the funds that we're going to come up with, of course, as serious people, we're going to open up a dialogue and see how the institutions grow up, so they have to finance. This one's not enough for him. But it's impossible to finance why someone wants it and imagines it would be good to have everything Britain, America, France, etc. and it is impossible for gentlemen to finance, no more crossings to shut down the BiH Border Service, which is the most efficient service, we are witnessing today to open an affair after an affair. So, we will, apparently, deny, unfortunately, and do so in the BiH area. Here, the intensive Border Service takes over everything, but we are intensively served by the data that crime and corruption in BiH is growing stronger and I am therefore, of course, that the Border Service is taking over everything to support it. I don't think it's disputed for anyone in BiH today, but it must share the fate of the BiH state. For nothing, we find that there are 40 million missing from the Border Service. We've got to tell them where they're coming from. So the original income story is, I repeat, the constitutional thing. It must be handled by all BiH institutions responsible for taking the debate and reaching a solution. We won't solve it with resolutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2577	Mr. Divković will continue Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2578	I see that this resolution has caused me to say political debates with a strong emphasis on the rheme we are in, or I would say pre-election time. We're going back a little bit to the essence of the resolution. Resolutions are the basic expression of the political will of this home or of another home where a question is proposed to potentiate, or to seek its resolution or to initiate it, etc. And that's how I experience this resolution. I see it as an expression of political will. It is clear here in the proposal, it will be an expression of the political will of this home if we accept it. If we don't accept it then it's not an expression, and I appreciate that it should be an expression of this home's political will to finance BiH institutions, and I don't have any claim at all to go into 41 now creating a state budget or creating an entity budget, etc. means to define the sources of that funding in the way I've heard it now in the debates how I've been listening to it in the beginnings so far here, etc. We cannot stay as the Dom, I would say deaf or deaf to the fact that BiH institutions have been developing lately, in other words, this home is making a decision on their formation, etc. It is perfectly natural that these developing institutions are looking for cut-off funds. From which sources and how, we must agree, but it should show the political will not to form institutions that have no defined sources of funding it is natural. We still had one law here today that was very important to us. It's been a long time since we've discussed it and today we've had it here, we've made a decision to discuss it in accordance with Article 99. I'll say one example, or I'll say two. We have two laws here. The Veterinary Act, etc. You know that because of the lack of that law, or institution, we cannot export meat and meat processing and it has been debated for months. We're going to form some institutions and we need to see where and how to fund them. We also have a law on aviation, which is, uh, looking for certain institutions, but these are sources of funds. It is clear how much air traffic charges are, who is now charging them, who is now controlling air traffic over BiH, etc. So let me go back to the beginning and ask you to take this resolution as an expression of the political will of this house and not to enter into detailed debates regarding, possibly, implications. The big question is what are the implications to demonstrate a clear good will to develop BiH institutions. I agree with the Constitution and the Dayton Peace Agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2579	I would like to thank Mr. Divković for his helpful suggestions, and I would like to ask that we stick to the resolution. Maybe some discussion and go beyond what's subject to discussion, but I'd like to pray that we stick to useful suggestions. Did Mr. Ilić come forward after that, Mr. Genjac?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2580	Indeed, we have heard opposing attitudes, which, in my view, again have a unique goal. No Niko argues that BiH and its institutions should function and, in turn, finance themselves. As a member of the Commission, I have intervened on the basic text of the proposed resolution, and therefore I want to say that I will vote for this resolution exclusively as an expression of the political will of the House of Nations to state its position that it is necessary for BiH, or its institutions to have original funding, but indeed not at any moment entering into the jurisdiction of the institutions that need to find the sources of funding and propose these sources of funding. It is certain, and I have repeated it several times from this pay phone that BiH cannot, at this economic moment with this kind of economic power, support such a divorced system of government and that it is for BiH politicians to find the most rational model of functioning and that is what we must do, no matter how impossible it may seem to someone, it is very possible and very quickly it must be done. I hope that the generations of politicians that the people will choose in these elections will be able to do so, and that is why I am also joining my colleague Divković with a request that we make a statement about this resolution, but it would really be good if we had these laws that this resolution proposes or some other proposals on how to get to the source of funding, rather than having a resolution, because if we had an Inflric resolution and a deflation of the law, then we did nothing.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2581	I thank Mr. Ilić. The word is Mr. Halid Genjac. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2582	Dear colleagues, all of what was the subject of the debate was also known at the beginning of last year, which is interesting because of a new beginning. So it was known that BiH had its own budget, that the budget was adopted, that the budget was adopted and that there are items in the budget and they are the law. On the other hand, it was known that BiH should develop more and more, that new institutions should be established, that growing and greater needs arise, that BiH cannot be dependent solely on the will of the entities and no one dispute that both the source and the way are needed. It was all known at the beginning of last year. With these two things in mind, it was necessary that the budget that was adopted and which and which the law respected, because the violation of that budget was a criminal offence, therefore, it was excruciating. He didn't pay much attention to the budget. The budget's been broken and we'll get a chance to see when we talk about budget implementation. It seems that funds have been spent in every way and beyond. On the other hand, instead of expressing political will in a way to find ways of additional funding, the adoption of special laws, the establishment of mechanisms to ensure original financing, among other things, and the adoption of laws listed here. None of this has been done, the mandate has passed and we are now being offered a resolution that we as the House of Nations will give an honorary word that we will adopt these laws within the next six months, or we will ask the Council of Ministers to deliver these laws. Now, in six months, the question is how will the Council of Ministers and the Presidency. Maybe someone will come to the presidency who won't need a resolution to handle this. That's one thing. Secondly, there is a formula for each institution of the legislative level, a configured majority that chooses its government, its Council of Ministers, and then communication between the majority of the parliamentary and the Council of Ministers takes place in a productive way, in such a way that the political will of the parliamentary majority in one legislative body is manifested by the law. The ruling majority of the political will manifests by passing the law, as its instrument is the Council of Ministers, which was mostly established and elected. The political will of the ruling majority turns out to be a solution to the problem, not a resolution. Given all of this, I believe that some of this, however, may not be too much of a benefit, but for all of the above reasons, I believe that this resolution in the pre-election period, at the end of the term, is an insult of common sense, and that is why I will use the possibility that according to Poslvonik there is simply that by voting you do not participate in something and I ask you to respect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2583	I would like to thank the delegate, Mr. Genjac. Mr Dragutin Rodić answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2584	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just going to say a few words about this resolution and I'm going to try to be very brief and clear. First of all, we have heard a lot of arguments here about and against why a resolution is needed and why it is not, however, one fact is that this is not a single question at all, because that a simple question would not require a resolution. If we were to express our political position on very important political issues, social, economic, etc. on every issue and to convince each other whether it is necessary or not, then the adoption of any legislative project should always make certain resolutions that we 43 commit ourselves to adopt certain legal projects. Here, I am now saying for this speaker, that we believe that 15 of us are very serious people and that I believe that in one legislative process, which will precede all of this, we can come up with quality solutions when it comes to these original revenues, but I also don't think that we need resolutions that we are going to commit to bring about something in the time that will be before us or those who come after us. So what I can say is that the Council of Ministers and those who are responsible for the Presidency is offering legal texts that we in the ordinary parliamentary procedure are going to have the opportunity to participate and this is what I believe is today that there is no need for us to adopt a resolution, because I think this is a political pamphlet that simply serves in this pre-election campaign that we swear before something that is imaginary and that, perhaps, in the coming time, will be current.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2585	I thank Mr Rodić. Rijeka has the first deputy chairman, Mr. Šimić and Mr. Jusufović, and no more employees.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2586	Dear colleagues, I think this is about how the author of this resolution would often like to tell you about the replacement of thesis. This is really about replacing thesis. I supported the resolution on the committee, explained why, and I will support it here. There's no harm in it. There's no harm in it. There's no harm in it. It is perfectly legitimate to run the campaign in a legitimate way, without violating Parliament's dignity. And where, in fact, it's about the campaign, it's this replacement thesis, that one act that is quite clear to me, quite positive intentions, and we've all said in the discussions that our country needs to make original incomes, should be restructured this way, as Spahić said a monstrously arranged country, I address it to him, I'm not going to say so, but our country is terribly complicated, arranged and this is one weak step, indeed, every step is weak but still, a step in that direction. So, in the context of one act or any act, we're defacto in this debate and it's a replacement of thesis. If we see the law or resolution as positive as it is offered and we conduct this debate, then the document could not be presented as propaganda or campaigning elements. We're giving him that dimension by running our campaign. I'm in for a resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2587	I thank Mr. Šimić. The word has Mr. Jusufović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2588	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, I personally think that around this resolution and about some other resolutions, although they are, after all, legitimate, so that's not to be disputed. But we seem to be wasting too much time. There are much more important things, but here I will say one of my own judgments about both this and some of the other resolutions that were present. So, not to slow down, after all, that this is a legitimate way for any legate or political party to express their opinion, no matter how much anyone likes or disagrees, to have a different argument. I'm basically in favor of the laws, so, for the regulation of the state, its organisational structure under the law. When I say this, I won't say anything new. Here's a 44 sentence that, here's the truth to understand me there's no political background. She's a reality, although there's been a lot of policy here today in this resolution, so maybe, here I'm not going to say that the way it is, that's the motive, but it's not to be talked about. As far as I'm concerned, it's been known since '97. the year Party for BiH and Dr. came out with about a hundred laws. Thank God they're through a different form mostly or a good part of them has been adopted. I'm glad to see that there's an initiator and a signer and something I know already God knows. So it's important to build this internal structure on the laws. I also agree with counterpart Špirić, who said this is a complicated and many other complex area. It's going into major reforms. Therefore, it is a matter of Constitution and negotiation and it is further in the procedure of how it will go, not disputed, and it seems to me that no one has seemed here that today, if we were to discuss a functional level of some kind that BiH must have an indisputable organisation, it must have institutions, so here lately there has been a transfer of jurisdiction etc. It's supposed to follow everything. However, if he comes here today, here's counterpart Špirić called for a speech, the first performance speech by this high representative of Mr. Eždaun, who said what we know, did not reveal anything hot water that in BiH is a totally dysfunctional organisation, too expensive, etc., when only the Federation has so many cantons, etc. So it's about a thorough reform that is under way and should be said in this order. As far as the resolution is concerned, I can only briefly conclude that I don't see any particular damage, I wouldn't talk about the benefits of whether or not there are any, I still think laws should be dealt with rather than resolutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2589	Thank you, Mr. Jusufović. I'm closing the debate and we're moving on to a statement of resolution. Who is it to adopt the resolution on the original financing and international commitments of BiH – the proponent, Mr Sejfudin Tokić? Who's against it? Who's being held back? – 1 I find that with 9 to – 3 against – 1 abstention, this motion for a resolution is going to the alignment did not get an entity majority. Ad.21. Information on the realisation of the Annex VII of the Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers I am opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2590	I was a little premature earlier, dear colleagues I think this practice of delivering information on the implementation of Annex VII to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is extremely useful and, I would say, important and I think that practice should be commended. I'm going to a series of questions that are affecting this problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2591	I'd like to ask delegates to listen to a fellow Genjac when he's talking. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2592	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. I would refer to a specific question besides a series of issues that are problematicd by this information. At the end of the information, the issue of land allocation is being addressed to address the problems of refugees and displaced persons in BiH. It is said, among other things, that the Ministry of Human Riving and Refugees is also very often informed about the frequent occurrences of land allocation in order to address refugee and displaced issues. This is said in the information that the indicators have not been collected, some of them have been collected, but it can be determined with certainty that over 10 000 pay in both entities has been allocated through this activity and the benefit has been achieved by a multiple number of users. Most of the time, there is one phenomenon of illegal and against the legal allocation of salaries of state land to refugees and displaced persons in order to resolve these people's issues, in a way that is against the law, which is pressed against existing regulations and, at last, has extremely harmful political consequences in terms of ethnic... and ultimately disrupting returnees to their pre-war hearths. According to some of the information available to the public and that I have come up with, it is a far larger number of paydays. About 90,000 salaries are mentioned, of which 80,000 and more pay in RS that have been allocated non-transparently, perhaps against the legal and necessary approval of the high representative's office. It is mainly the area of Kotorsky, Proposition, janje, etc. Because in the text delivered to us by the competent ministry of the Council of Ministers. This problem is treated in a way that describes the problem and offers some solutions that do not see the guarantee that the problem will be effectively solved. I suggest that, with this information, we adopt the conclusion of the following content. To schedule an extraordinary plenary session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the next month, both homes to which the Council of Ministers, together with the OHR, CRA, and other competent institutions in entities, would obtain information on the issue and prepare proposals for conclusions on how to address the issue in the best way. Therefore, the appointment of a plenary session special, dedicated, exclusively, to the illegal assignment of state land in areas across BiH. I suggest, therefore, with this information that we adopt this conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2593	I thank Mr. Genjac. Mr Spahić answered the word. Here you go. Can I just ask Genjac Gentleman to make this conclusion in writing to me?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2594	Mr. Chairman, I would like to say that this information is important to the House of Peoples and it is a pity that there is no one from the Ministry and I don't believe that everyone is doing exactly that dedicated, if the Minister can't do matters relating to the Election Law, amending the Election Law. But it wasn't set up by the Minister for Parliament. I'd like to say something three places I've had a chance to visit these days. First, for this information. The most common form of human rights violations are, of course, property rights and their demands, but the most common form of destruction of the practically potential invested by society in the return of people to homes and legitimately sustainable return is linked because this return as information is determined by all media, as is found by 46 people who have connections with refugees and displaced persons. We have the return of that part of the generation that in no way can provide for the revitalisation of certain spaces and the return to normal life, conditioned that it makes itself comfortable with living to form a family that has conditions for education, normal communication, etc. and, in that sense, is an illustrative example last Saturday regarding the organisation of that international refugee day, which was organised by UNHCR, it was very moving in Trnovo and it was right there in the space between a community that was once unique, now has different names it has some kind of... board and border that is inconsistencies, but it is, as it implies. There are five questions that must be answered urgently when it comes to the Ministry of Refugees and displaced persons and the activity of these...
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2595	I'm begging you. It's up to us to discuss information.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2596	There are no answers to questions that are crucial. What is under one sustainable return, in the opinion of the ministry what and how large and what definitions and what laws must be changed by a sustainable return? Two. How to plan the development of environments at all, such as Derventa, Srebrenica, Stolac and some other municipalities, Trnovo, for example. And what kind of development plans are they in here? Third. In what sense is finally meant to face the fact that, under this return policy, only formal acceptance of the conditions in which people live, in which, for example, the youngest who engage in such a single return process next to the elderly finds themselves... dozens and dozens of kilometers must go to their first school to their first health institution, to the first communal one, I would say, the service he needs for a normal life. It is one process in which, indeed, you have a virtually sustainable return and even return, and when people return, I will set an example in Trnovo... they are actually decorated to stay there, rather than stimulate them to sell that property, to exchange it, which is also legitimately right, but we have said that it is legitimate and basic that people return home and have sustainable living conditions and educational and work, etc. There is a very good initiative within Southeast Europe. I would like to say that this ministry has been excellently established in Istanbul on the first working table on human rights and democratisation, submitted one initiative to UNHCR to exchange information on refugees and displaced in the region,... thinks of a neighbour. This information, unfortunately, is still blocking the real realisation of interests related to all BiH citizens, who are particularly located in the region outside their homes. And, finally, because I think it's very useful that this information is on the agenda here, I think it would be on another example that I once mentioned, trying to resolve one central dilemma. It concerns local and regional democracies and concerns the positions of local authorities most strongly faced with this problem. In Srebrenica, for example. I would like to restart this, in view of this information, there is a request that I have also spoken to the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission of the Municipal Authorities that the powers normally belonging to each municipality and local authorities return to the Srebrenica municipality and that they may begin to work to address the problem of the return of people and the development of the region. I have to say 47 in no way does not exist operationally and in any way declaratively reacting to the authorities at the state level, to this ministry, or at the level of the RS, which the public has repeatedly been informed of, as well as the drastic examples of the absence of these people at the time of the debate on donor funds for Srebrenica and the surrounding municipality. It's all familiar to the public. Since a donor conference will be held at Srebrenica at the beginning of next month, and now that the public is again focusing on such issues, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it might be good for Parliament's high house to be with representatives of different clubs of Bošnjak, Hrvat and Srbin, the College or the Commission itself together, I think, with joint efforts to be present and to discuss this position as in a specific municipality such as Srebrenica to give incentives except for the adoption of formal information to the development of local democracy and the authorities that is the only one. That's what I'd like to recommend to you, so I think that visit would very much echo, not as formally promising, but as something that would check out the information we have. Namely, all information is general, correct formal-law, but they lack what is called real life and about it, it simply does not want to be spoken in either country, nor is it wanted to be spoken in the right way within the framework of sheep's institutions and it is quite logical that these people feel that these competent state institutions of the ministry and entity or regional or cantonal are essentially not dealing with problems but are formally doing a job that has long been well designed somewhere.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2597	I thank Mr Spahić. Mr. Novaković's delegate came forward for the word. All I ask is that we interpret the information from the point of view of the Ministry of State, which was written in accordance with its capabilities and competences. They are who they are. I think the information is correct. The second thing is the desire and feeling of delegates whether the processes go slower, faster, whether they cover everything that is the competence of local authorities etc. That's why I think we should discuss information today.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2598	I really won't talk much about information. I think there's been a lot of effort and ultimately writing this information and all this data coming in here talking about that the competent ministry has tried one comprehensive way to show this problem, but I can't help but comment on two things when it comes to this information. First of all, I think the part on the 35th part that talks about health insurance laws is, in one incorrect way, treated the same problem for the Federation and the RS. In the RS section, it is clear that returnees do not have adequate health insurance. That finding is artificially avoided, therefore avoided, to mention whether they have or do not have in the Federation. In this sense, it was necessary for the information to have this level of correctness so as to say whether or not they have or do not have or do not have in this other part of BiH. The second thing that I came out to comment on is Mr. Genjac's proposal, which, of course, I don't intend to argue or argue with, but in any case, I want to comment. 48 I will not repeat that everyone has the right to choose a place to live. So that's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about state land now. So, I'm not talking about the private, which is subject to restitution, I'm talking about the state. It's very problematic whether someone has the right to prevent or not and I won't comment on it, but I want to comment on the fact that much more is said here that many more crying has been allocated to RS rather than the Federation. A very simple ospodo. This information contains some data, which is: if 76% of the refugees surveyed in the Federation had declared to return to pre-war homes, 8% would not return and the other 24% were not sure whether they wanted to or didn't want to come back. In RS, 17% is for the return to the Federation, 60% is for staying in RS and the other 23% is not sure what the two want. Ma'am, the pressure of displaced persons in RS on local and republican authorities is much more pronounced, given their desire to stay there. I won't comment on why that displaced face from the RS won't go back to the Federation. I won't because it would cause political debate here today and that's not my intention. I just want to say that both local and republican authorities have been forced to address these issues. In the absence of financial resources, for the assignment of houses, first houses, apartments, etc. seek solutions in the assignment of the crying. And this is how these people's will is realized, so their first choice is where they're going to live, without, of course, analysis, cause and reason why they want to do it. For this reason, I think that the plenary session, which Mr Genjac spoke of, would give quite the opposite effects of those who want to achieve this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2599	Ladies and gentlemen, I will, of course, try for a moment. I want to say publicly that I belong to that category of people who think it's not good and that no one has the right to seek a solution to settle their refugee status under the law. The fact that someone chose to live in an entity, not wanting to come back doesn't give him the right to be granted power in an illegal manner by a country that is controversial, and I mean that the unfair relationship of entity authorities was towards refugees. There are so many countries in BiH that are not at all controversial. Has anyone ever asked the question, why refugees are given exactly the disputed locations, so that fear can be homogenized and the elections are lost, that's my message to the refugees. The government that wants to solve the refugee problem will assign locations that are by no means controversial. It cannot be a country of neither the Serbian Orthodox Church nor the Islamic religious community, nor a country that is nationalised, nor the Catholic Church, so I absolutely put the Jewish communities in the same plane. Therefore, the game of power at different levels, unfortunately, has only brought together the accident of the refugees and the scattered faces. I want to support today the information written by the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. It wrote from the level, therefore, of their powers and competences, of course, remains the authority of local authorities and other levels of government to solve this problem. I don't think it's a bad conclusion that Mr. Genjac's different levels of government of the Vija Minister, first of all the OHR's office, determines if he has incorrect land allocations that these people are not being further kept in agony. There is no greater accident for refugees than to be illegally assigned to the earth, so that the power of God now stands behind him, with honor, and that the people of the clear heavens may dwell. It is not aid to the refugee population in neither the Federation nor the RS, and in that sense, if the Council of Ministers or OHR is prepared, therefore, not to analyse specific locations, so let's say an interesting location in RS and the Federation, but all the locations, and to come out with that information, I am prepared to support it and discuss both homes in plenary. I don't think there's anything wrong with it, and I think it's in the way of solving refugee problems. 49 So today, that I should not judge the debate, I will plead for the information of the Council of Ministers, or of the Office of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2600	First, Munib has an incorrect quote, so Genjac replica if you allow the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2601	I will try two short parts of what counterpart Novaković was saying to take advantage of this business opportunity. First, taking care of the polls you mention here in information should not be commented on I am on two occasions before in the RS Assembly very well know the position of the RS and the authorities on budgetary positions... what mood it was. So, no wonder statistics like this, they are now a little bit like podcast and encouraging by 17 percent, but we were at an opportunity when we adopted a budget in RS that I am extremely familiar with that stay item is not even shown at the assembly for a while but only at special clubs, etc., but I won't talk about it. But what's interesting is that even now, here I am today using several times to call myself, maybe it won't do me any good politically... with my colleague Špirić, but it is the fact that what's said now is a true fact. I'll back it up and work on both sides, just depends on where more. I will back up with an example in Brcko where, before the Serbian district was declared, it was then divided into the District, built a church in private, or granted approval illegally on private land in the local community where 99% or 98% of the Bosniak population are. So this was all about manipulation. However, what I want to say to my colleague Novaković. It seems to me that you are consciously trying to manipulate yourself or us. I've noticed three times when you speak Republic authorities with your mouth, probably consciously. Knowing the overall state structure, to put it that way, or the legal structure in BiH, I don't blame you, you're obviously not a lawyer, so I suppose you don't know it, but you should know when you're talking like that with a full Republic, Republic of Serbia, that Republika Srpska, apart from the prefix, that prefix containing the name of the Republic has nothing else or can have a total part of the relationship in BiH. It would be better if you threw that delusion out loud to yourself that you throw it out of your head.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2602	I'm asking you to stick to the agenda so we don't come in. Mr. Genjac picked up the phone and then Mr. Novaković. I'm asking you to stick to the information that we don't enter political waters, to keep as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2603	Very short. Since he mentioned his colleague Novaković by name. So, whatever the will of the citizens in any entity, the will of the citizens cannot be carried out and fulfilled by breaking the law. In Kotorsko, 220 dulm of land belonging to Bošnjak was assigned to build contrary to all laws. So this is the way law works by road practice forest, entity behavior as it pleases and how it is believed that certain goals do not solve the question of these inadequacies. These unfavorable ones are in the insecure, uncertain, and their troubles are not 50 downsizing but larger. Indeed, I also consider the argument Mr Novaković made that the unification of this debate at the level of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, with the participation of the OHR, can contribute to the diagnosis of the issue and ultimately to the way in which this problem is addressed.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2604	I thank Mr. Genjac. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2605	First of all, I wasn't talking about the illegal land allocation, especially I wasn't talking about the land allocation of private land. I was talking about state land that is not subject to restitution. I think I've made myself perfectly clear, and I find that such land is not disputed in my opinion. I'm not talking about private assignments, but speaking of which, gentlemen, then we could talk a little bit about both the sanski Most and the Key, not just the Brcko and the construction of the church in Brcko, but a lot more, but it's not the subject of this today. There's a lot more of that data. Unfortunately, on both sides, I say, unfortunately, both entities have been awarded private land in an illegal manner and it is not disputed and I am against it. To comment on Mr Jusufović's statement, I don't know, really, had any meaning or not, I was talking about the Republic Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons because it's called RS, because it's republican. I have not once commented on the statements of some delegates here, which BiH cannot use without the prefix of states. I didn't comment on that.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2606	I ask you to stick to the agenda, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2607	So I could comment on that, but I won't.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2608	He has the word Dragutin Rodić and we're going to bring the blizzard to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2609	I just want to say a few words about this resolution and from the aspect of one that seems to me to be the inforation, which is quite comprehensive and treats all areas of social life. However, I have one impression that it seems to me that the resolution in many of its segments has already been overcome, and I apologize for the information. Since that information was written in March O.G. The Council of Ministers discussed in April, we came to jurisdiction in May of this year and, since we are adopting information, I personally believe that it has treated many areas of quality. However, when we adopt it today, we will see that we are adopting something that we already overcome and that is in practice quite different. Here, I will say only one segment, and these are assessments, such as co-operation between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on the contract and social security agreements between the two countries. In fact, it says here that no ratification notes have been exchanged yet, I am saying from the point of view that this is one very question about refugees in both the Republic of Croatia and BiH and I can conclude that this contract is one of the first contracts to be applied to the premises of the former Yugoslavia. But since the correct conclusions that are proposed here are 51, I think that this information can be supported, and I think that if you continue to start certain activities that this information suggests we end up with, we'll come up with a very high-quality solution in many areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2610	I thank Mr Rodić. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who is the promoter of the Council of Ministers for the adoption of information on the implementation of Annex VII of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH? Who's against it? No abstentions. I find that we unanimously adopted information on the realization of Annex VII. We also have a proposal for Mr Genjac's conclusion that the Council of Ministers, together with OHR and the competent entity institutions, prepare information on illegal distributions of state land and proposed solutions. The information would be discussed at a special plenary session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for a month. We're putting your proposal on a plea, with perhaps my suggestion would be good, that the deadline, I don't know if the deadline is enough, just in that sense, to consider maybe giving two months to the Council of Ministers and the OHR to cover the entire area of BiH, if the proposal agrees. It'll be fine, within two months. Who's to this conclusion? Why wouldn't you? I'm for the plenary session. Who's in? Why not a plenary session about a burning problem? - 12 for it. Who's against it? Who's being held back? With 12 for and 1 with abstention we also adopted Mr. Halid's conclusion with the correction that it would be within two months. Ad.22. The conclusion on the deadline within which the Council of Ministers will submit a report on the implementation of the 2001 budget – the proposer of this agenda is Mr Genjac I would ask him to propose what time-limit it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2611	I, as far as I have information, have been guided by certain activities regarding the drafting of the report and the Bureau is required by the Rules of Procedure, after receiving a report from the Council of Ministers to refer to the parliamentary procedure, since part of this procedure is completed, I think it is a realistic 15-day deadline and I propose a very simple conclusion that the Council of Ministers' obligations are to deliver within 15 days in the preliminary procedure a report on the implementation of the 2001 budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2612	I thank Mr. Genjac. Is anyone there to report for a hearing? I think the conclusion is logical, given that we will also have a meeting of the House of Peoples and we need a procedure for that report to pass by the competent commissions and that would be enough to win within 15 days. Mr. Ivo Divković. It's open at first. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2613	I voted in favour of that item on the agenda when there was adoption of the agenda and I do not dispute the need for this, for the Council of Ministers to deliver the report, in the rest, is his and his obligation. However, when the deadline is in question, there, indeed, - I can't support a 15-10 deadline or I don't know for 20 days, because, I don't really know, maybe Mr. Genjac knows, he says he has some information, I don't have any information. At what stage in the Council of Ministers is preparing that report and I would pray that, I don't know, or a more realistic deadline or that we are looking for a next session or another one of those reports but that we don't limit ourselves for a period of 10-15 days because I'm afraid we're going to get into a situation that just people can't do that job within the time limit we've given them.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-25-0.u2614	Ladies and gentlemen, I fully support Mr. Genjac's proposal. If there were any luck, if I were to repeat it, we couldn't have adopted the budget for this year without adopting the budget for the previous year. Well, that's why we came into a situation where we had... 50 million. So do you think Mr. Genjac is asking for this because there is not enough information, what happened to the budget, and that is why I think it is a big accident that the Council of Ministers, today is on June 25th and has not yet come up with a budget implementation document for last year and the Presidency, noting, is obliged to submit the budget proposal for the following year by 15th of October this year and we will not yet adopt the budget for last year. This speaks of the tragedy of the way the government was executed, to the soul that we do not choose, but to the Representative Council, and therefore I strongly support the conclusion that the budget implementation is delivered to us by the Council of Ministers within 15 days. If I can't deliver the budget in June for the last year within 15 days, then I don't know what I can deliver to us what their task is, and therefore I stand strongly behind this proposal and I think a 15-day deadline is enough. Thank you very much. Is there anyone else to discuss? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Who is it to adopt this conclusion by Mr. Genjac? I'm asking you to raise your hand. What are you so shy about? Ten for it. Who's against it? - 2 Who's abstentioned? 1 I find that this conclusion was adopted by Mr Genjac with 10 votes for – 2 against – 1 abstention. I ask the Service to forward this conclusion to the Council of Ministers to work on the report if it is not finished. Ad.23. A statement by the People's House on the Joint Commission's report on reaching an agreement on the single text of the administrative procedure law You have received a report. The Conciliation Commission has reached an agreement and today we need to make a statement about this law. Who's in? Unanimity. I find that this law, the agreement on the uniform text of the Law on Administrative Procedure, has been adopted and can be published in the Sanhedrin. 53 Ad.24. The implementation of the House of Peoples on the Joint Commission's report on reaching an agreement on a single text of the Law on Administrative Disputes has also reached agreement within the Joint Commission. Who's in favor of this law? - 13. Who's against it? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No abstentions. I also find that this law has been passed, i.e. the Law on the same text was adopted in both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Gentlemen, I hereby conclude the regular session session of the 20th session of the House of Peoples. We have discussed that after this we will take a break and hold an extraordinary session of the House of Peoples session with one item on the agenda that is the amendment and addition of the election law of BiH member 100. Proposer of the Council of Ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw attention to the public. We, the College of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly, were invited to a joint discussion by the OHR, the Electoral Commission of BiH. As Parliamentarians, we agreed that we would schedule an emergency session and adopt what the Council of Ministers delivers to us. Unfortunately, today the Council of Ministers held an extraordinary session. I have information that they didn't come up with a single bill. I ask BiH's self-publicity to understand what kind of ambience Parliament is in. It's not good that every time we go with the 100 point proposal, you take it or leave it. I am grateful to you for your willingness to have an extraordinary session. He won't be here today. You will be informed whether it will be until July 2nd, and I would like to inform you that we will have a new regular session between July 20th and July 25th. Thank you very much. The seat is over.
