ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6491	Gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 23rd session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to the MPs, the meeting was called: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, the chairman and members of the BiH House of People's College of Parliamentary Assembly, representatives of OHR, OSCE, the European Union, the Observer mission to BiH and representatives of the BiH Embassy. I find that 35 MPs attend the session. 22 MPs from the Federation of BiH and 13 MPs from Republika Srpska. The absence was announced because of the official trip: Mr Željko Bilbija, Mr Sead Buturović and Mr Marko Amidžić. The absence was also announced by MP Mr Zdenko Vukić. Gentlemen, the session has a quorum for full-time work and decision-making. I welcome all present MPs and guests, as well as representatives of the media. Gentlemen, honored guests, I have the special honor and pleasure to welcome his Excellency, Mr Rafael Estrelj, president of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Mr. Strelja has been in BiH for several days. The House of Representatives College called on Mr Estrelj to address the House of Representatives at the beginning of the session before we could move to the workplace. The Protocol provides for the honourable representative to be addressed. It's an honor to give my word to his Excellency and listen to his exposure. Here you go, Mr. Estelj.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6492	Mr. President, members of the Presidency, as well as the Council of Ministers, allow me to tell you how great a pleasure and great honor it is for me to be called as chairman of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly to address you today and to share with you my impressions, which I had after two days, intense and very intense with the leading persons in your parliament in your government and in the international community. This is an important period for your country and for the entire region. The situation in this region remains fragile, but there is a whole series of favourable political and development moments that have created the possibility that we can all share opportunities that we can all use together to strengthen peace, stability and security. 2 This is a critical period for you because it is now time to consolidate and continue to build on the progress that has been made over the last years and after the significant investments made by the international community. I am aware of the problems that should still be resolved in your country. I am aware, too, of the deep and more lasting tensions of hatred and suspicion that still exist as a result of a decade to say civil soups. However, from my own perspective, I already see the basis for optimism. As a Španac, I know and know well the legacy of our civil thorns and the times and patience that it takes to heal the scars of such conflicts. But I was also a witness and I saw my country reject such a legacy and it successfully shrinks on the European horizon to take its place in the Western community of the people. As a European, I am also aware of the importance of the integration and regional co-operation process. The European Union is a looser state border, and on behalf of a vision of a broader political unity. We gave up part of sovereignty by agreeing to a single currency and also by creating a common space for our judiciary and by being able to develop our common policy of security and defence in Europe. These are, of course, classic symbols of sovereignty. But by doing so, we are, in fact, more powerful than diversifying our identity and our national ambitions. Finally, as president of the National Parliamentary Assembly, I am aware of NATO's values and the sense of security and common security that Alliance membership and, in fact, partnership and co-operation with the Alijans brings with it. So these are all the reasons we have for optimism, because closer association with these structures is, in fact, the goal of your country. I know this goal is common to BiH citizens and authorities. However, all this requires a lot of work and constant efforts. Reforms and changes will indeed be needed to ensure that the institutions and laws here are compatible with the institutions and laws of the European states. These changes must be implemented in order to make BiH a healthy, sustainable and functional state and to guarantee the future and future prosperity for your citizens. These objectives include, among other things, the rule of law on which all persons, regardless of their communities from which they originate, could be equal to the right. Also an independent judiciary that would be free of political influences and capable of coping with corruption and organised crime. Efficient enforcement and enforcement of laws guaranteeing civil rights and freedom, market economy and sustainable and in an appropriate manner financed by state institutions. I am aware that there has been progress in these areas and I congratulate you on your membership in the Council of Europe which, however, will bring with it certain obligations. At this point, it is therefore critical that amendments to the entity constitutions be adopted in order to allow elections to be held and to give a tangible expression of commitments made in relation to equal rights given to all nations. Also, I'm glad to see that defence reform is also on your agenda, and it takes so many cuts in the number of soldiers to be executed in this moment. Also reorganising, restructureing and reducing your armed forces is an urgent necessity and I am glad that all of you have reached a consensus on this. It's something you have to go through to relieve the economy of excessive burden of spending on defense. 3 However, there are also changes you must implement to succeed in your aspirations to participate in the NATO Partnership for Peace, and the goal your top military officials also consider their priority. These changes would include, among other things, a single defence ministry and a united command and control of the armed forces at the state level, and I am here pointing out at the state level under proper democratic control, with full transparency and full responsibility towards Parliament. The defence budget, which would represent the country's real strategic needs and would be based on a real defence plan and in line with the economic resources available. Also, the development of the expertise of civilians in both government and Parliament to ensure that the defence does not remain exclusively in the domain of people in uniform. These are the changes NATO expects of you so that they can meet them. You can count on the support of NATO and NATO's parliamentary assembly. Mr. President, this region has occupied the attention and efforts of the international community over the past decade will continue to be occupied in the years to come, as well as the presence of our soldiers and our police force who will soon become European police for the European Union. Because we are trying to secure a safe environment for the development of civil society. These obligations will remain certain. However, BiH will remain a security consumer for some time. But my message to you today is that through the changes you are going to be going through, BiH must assume its responsibilities and obligations and become a manufacturer of security. In that sense, I welcome the steps you've already taken by sending your monitors to UN missions. It's small steps. But these are signs of your potential. The real foundations of civil society must be laid inside. They can't be imported from the outside. It is up to you to make these changes to implement these reforms, to build the necessary structures above all to develop democratic institutions and practices that are essential to civil society. Let me remind you that Dejton is not a ceiling that needs to be reached, but a platform on which to build the future. But above all, it is up to you to create a sense of common goal and common identity among your citizens and to develop a wider awareness that forever rejects individual interests and divides the future. Encouraged by what I've seen and heard. Despite many efforts and obstacles, progress has been made. However, this progress must be maintained. The NATO Parliamentary Assembly is willing to play its part and also contribute to helping you through this period of transition. We have played such a role for a long time, by providing programmes to reach the general public on which we have integrated our parliamentary partners into our work and which we have provided and provide political and practical assistance in professional knowledge. In particular, we focused on giving experience in many of our national parliaments, in order to ensure the efficiency of parliamentary supervision, over the armed forces. In this regard, allow me to congratulate those members of Parliament who participated here last week in a security conference and where there was a conclusion that a defence and security committee should be established, defence and security issues in the BiH House of Representatives. Let me also, Mr. President, express my hope that the issue of this committee will be discussed today during the plenary session, in order to allow this committee to begin its work as soon as possible. Let me make a commitment that the NATO Parliamentary Assembly will provide four permanent support, along with our partners in the OSCE in Geneva, so that they can work together to resolve... the security of this committee. And finally, Mr President, this is the hand of friendship that I now offer on behalf of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly to the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina as our contribution to your path of progress and recovery and reintegration into the European family you belong to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6493	On behalf of the House of Representatives, I would like to thank Mr Rafael Estrelji, president of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and Mr Sajmon Lan, the secretary general of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly for his participation in the work. Time out for 15 minutes. [[/pause 15 minutes.]] The draft agenda has seen changes as the sessions of the enlarged College and the U.S. College have been held. You know that the agenda determines the Expansive College at the College's proposal. We had scheduled two meetings of an extended college with the topic of preparation for the 23rd session of the House of Representatives, but could not for objective reasons attend all club heads. That's why we had this session of the Expansive College this morning, where we set the agenda for the 23rd session. So what you've got in front of you gentlemen MPs is, about it, a concession was reached, so consent at a session of the enlarged college that was held this morning. Please, did the professional service deliver a draft agenda for the 23rd session of the 16th point. Okay. Please, gentlemen, I wouldn't read it. You'll get your word when I give you my word. Hold on. So, the inability to meet the extended college has conditioned that we had to have a session of the extended college this morning and that we only managed to define an extended college proposal for the 23rd session this morning. You have 16 points. You got me not to read. At the General College session, no agreement has been reached on certain points of the agenda and then, according to the Rules of Procedure, if there is no agreement on the Extended College, then holds a session of the narrow college trying to reach agreement. If there is no agreement there, then according to the Rules of Procedure on the disputed points of the agenda, the House is declared. Therefore, you have received the Members of Parliament a draft agenda agreed upon by the extended College as you and your club heads have been informed of the disputed points. What are the points of the agenda that the College did not agree on? I wouldn't now, since Dom will get a chance to plead on all those points, I wouldn't be saying it now, repeating it, it's familiar. I expect the club chiefs have informed you of that. We'll put everything to the vote, everything, don't worry. Home will have a chance to make a statement, that's not controversial. Now, according to the Rules of Procedure, we need to open a debate on the agenda, as MPs can propose additions and changes to the agenda. Gentlemen of the Parliament, who's answering for your word? Mr. Begović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6494	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen. In the extended college, we agreed, there were different opinions in determining the agenda. Certain MPs have suggested that Budget be removed from the agenda. Others have suggested that it remain in the 5th agenda, including me on behalf of the Members' Club for Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Members' Club for Bosnia and Herzegovina remains on its proposal to put Budget on the agenda today and to debate, starting with the importance of this act and our responsibility, i.e. obligations towards the international community and other factors. That's why I don't understand how the new amended agenda could have left out the budget issue. If issues are controversial, if some MPs do not agree that Budget is placed on the agenda, others remain on the agenda, then it cannot be unilaterally entered into the agenda, but should inform the MPs here that through their debate they are committed to the final establishment of the agenda. Therefore, the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina's MPs' club is firmly on the view that today should be included in the budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6495	Thank you very much, Mr. Begović. I'll repeat what I said that what the extended college agreed on, there's a consensus and a list of that agenda you have. Those agenda points that the extended college disagreed on, did not agree with the Uži College, therefore the House decides. It will be placed on the House to make the House known. So we don't need to have a discussion about it. All these dots go before the House to plead. There's nothing to argue about, gentlemen. Here you go, Mr. Mehtić. I would only ask that we limit ourselves to the Rules of Procedure to the three-minute exposure and that any debate in the debate on the agenda must refer to the agenda, and cannot be talked about the scale of things that are foreseen for the agenda. So just about the agenda specifically. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6496	Gentlemen chairman, fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen. I propose that today's agenda include the text of the Resolution which speaks of a more energetic takeover of the international community in solving the Palestinian problem. Sir... Begović and I offered one text of the resolution. I hope you have all that text in front of you and after you read it, I would ask you to make a statement about it and put it into today's agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6497	Thank you, Mr. Mehtić. Is anyone else answering for word? Here you go. Mr. Borić. Request to three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6498	The Foreign Democratic Action MPs' club supported its MPs who launched an initiative to hold an extraordinary session of the House of Representatives dedicated to the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people in the light of Sarajevo paper. Today there were a lot of members of the club heads who were to treat this point, the truth not all tomorrow in the form of a resolution on the implementation of the Court's decision. So I'm staying on the stand to put this item on the agenda whether in the form of a special session or tomorrow in the form of a resolution, the Party of Democratic Action, or the Club is ready to hold a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6499	Thank you, Mr. Borić. You asked the question. You'll get an answer right away. A tight college was held before the session continued. According to Article 47(3), The Rules of Procedure, when 10 and more MPs request a session, then there is an obligation for that session to be scheduled. In order not to burden this session with this question, the College agreed that at the end of the 23rd session, i.e. This session of ours shall immediately hold its 24th session in accordance with the request of a group of Members. So that question has been resolved in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and we will respect the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Momir Tošić. Is he all right, Mr. Borić?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6500	On behalf of the SDS Club, we support the resolution, but we believe it has to be different. ... on the takeover of the international community in solving the problem in the Middle East and with a special reference to the problem of terrorism, because today we have not only the suffering of one people, but the loss of more people, more innocent children and what is a particular problem that we need to face here in Bosnia and Herzegovina is a problem of terrorism. So the resolution has to wear that side besides this.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6501	Thank you, Mr. Tošić. Just please, before you go, can you repeat the name exactly, I haven't been able to write it down.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6502	It means a resolution on the energizing takeover of the international community in solving the problem in the Middle East with a special aspect of emerging terrorism and the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6503	Okay. Thank you very much. Niko one's answering for a word. Mr. Buturović, not Buturović. Kulenović Salih, I apologize for looking the other way at Mr. Mijatović, who is right behind you. I was in a dilemma about who answered the word first.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6504	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to consider something that we have already received on April 3, 2002, and this is a proposal for the agenda that we have received in the materials and, of course, I hope that we are all prepared for that agenda. Now we get a proposal, another draft agenda that is significantly reduced compared to the agenda delivered to us. I don't know why the Expansive College didn't meet at the time, so it concessed the agenda so we couldn't discuss this agenda today. That's one thing. 7 The second truth in this agenda, delivered on the agenda, is said to be from 3rd to 6th point that it is conditional if these reports are. As far as I can tell, we've already got two reports on the bench, so we could discuss it. And what I'm going to say today is about this reduced agenda and how it is now delivered to the benches I suggest that Budget be placed in this session. I propose this as an MP and as a member of the Finance and Budget Committee. We have discussed it a lot, discussed it, and I think it is high time for this Parliament to discuss it. We're not waiting for our mandate to expire without adopting the budget of the budget for 2002. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6505	Thank you. Mr. Mijatović, then Mr. Minister Domazet. Here you go, Mr. Mijatović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6506	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues. Point 15. sub-b. – Giving consent to ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The very name of this agenda point is illogical, vague and linguistically incomprehensible. It turns out that the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the federal government of Yugoslavia will be lower and lower. I'd like to make this clear. I compared it, that's the name of the Agreement itself. I would beg for clarification, whether it's a technical mistake or if it's something else.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6507	It will be corrected, Mr. Mijatović. You're absolutely right it's a technical mistake.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6508	Yes, it is a technical mistake.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6509	If it wasn't a technical mistake, I'd really be begging for clarification.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6510	All right. Thank you, Mr. Mijatović. Mr. Domazet asked for a word. Here you go, Mr. Domazet.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6511	Dear Mr. Chairman, respected members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency, honourable MPs. I would ask that item 11 of the proposed agenda for the 23rd session be removed from the agenda and be referred to the committee procedure because, in the meantime, there are important circumstances following the signing of the letter of intent in relation to the Standbay arrangement with the International Monetary Fund, which suggests a completely different solution to the use of the concession funds. We would, by adopting this proposal, allow 8 new amendments, i.e. a new concept of the law, to be established in the commission phase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6512	Mr. Domazet, will you give us a new text of the law?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6513	No, but the existing law, but to the existing law in the commission, we suggest that it return to the commission stage.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6514	Mr. Minister, I ask you to answer the question – will you refer to the House of Representatives a new text of law or will you remain in the old text of the law?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6515	We stay with the old text of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6516	I beg you, Mr. Minister, if you change a single sentence, it's a new text of the law. So you can withdraw the old book, make a proposal, and we can accept that you withdraw the old text of the law and, as far as today or tomorrow, you can refer that amended text to the assembly procedure as a new text of the law. That would be according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6517	I can't say anything else here except that we stay in the same text of the law, and at tomorrow's Council of Ministers session, we can adopt a second position. Now my proposal is like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6518	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. We understand that you are asking to withdraw from the procedure or withdraw from today's session of the proposal for a law on the purpose and use of the property that BiH receives under the Agreement on Sucession, and we will see what you will do. If you give us a new text proposal, then it's a clear business procedure. Gentlemen, no one is answering for a word anymore. I suggest we approach the adoption of the agenda. I ask you to follow closely so there are no misunderstandings. So, gentlemen, before you there is a draft agenda for the 23rd session that has been established by the Extended College. It is from 1st to 16th, by deleting point 11 at the request of the Council of Ministers. Are you following me? All right. Let's move on. The points that are not, around which no consensus has been reached on the extended college and on the UZ college held after the extended college, require that they be declared by the House. I'll put those points to the vote. 9 First, we must make a statement, I suggest we do this first, because the House must declare itself on the position of the Council of Ministers to remove the proposal for a law on the purpose and use of the assets that BiH receives under the Agreement on Ex-SFRJ Sucession on the agenda. I'm asking Dom to plead. Who's in favor of the Council of Ministers? It must be declared because the Expansive College has put it on the agenda. Please make a statement. Only we can change the decision of an extended college. That's why the House needs to make a statement. Who's for please? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you, sir. I'll Borić for technical assistance. Count and Mr. Neimarli has lost his plate. I'm asking the service to get Mr. Neimarlija's ballots. Thank you. Please report. Does he need an entity vote? I'm scared. We'd better go to an entity vote? Please, we have to go to an entity vote. Who is from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina for a proposal from the Council of Ministers to get off the agenda of the Proposal for a Success Act on Concession of Assets received under the Agreement on Sucession? Thank you. Who's from Republika Srpska for? Thank you. Please report. The results of the vote. 36 votes, 27 present for abstention 5, not all voted. According to Bosnia and Herzegovina Federation entities for 18, Republika Srpska for 11. I find that the draft law on the purpose and use of the property that BiH receives under the Agreement on the subject of the concession of the former SFRY - first reading - has been removed from the agenda. Let's move on. The next item is – BiH institutions' draft budget and international commitments for 2002 – first reading. Who is it? That's where we have two variants. One should be, one should be, and the other should not be in the agenda. Who therefore gave the BiH institutions' draft budget and international commitments for 2002 to be on the agenda? Please, who's to be in the agenda? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's being held back? It takes an entity vote. Please, who is from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina to be in the agenda? Thank you. Which one of the MPs from Republika Srpska is to keep Budget on the agenda? Who's in? I'd like a voter's report. 10 Thank you. Thirty-seven present. For 27 versus 10. By entities, the Federation of BiH for 24. Republika Srpska for 3. The proposal hasn't received the necessary entity majority, it's going to be agreed upon. It's the agenda, there's nothing to get along with. There's already an attitude. Let's move on. The BiH institutions' draft budget and international commitments for 2002. Who's to get into the agenda? I'm sorry. The draft law on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international obligations for 2002, you all understood it was a lapus. Who's in? We vote. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? That's the dots. That's quite clear, but we have to go from point to point. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's being held back? I understand that the dots are tied, but they are formulated as two points of the agenda. Every item of the agenda is being voted upon. Entire vote. Who's for the Federation of BiH? Thank you. Who's in favour of the RS? Thank you. 37 present. For 27 – versus 10. Federation of BiH for 24 – Republika Srpska for 3. No consent has been adopted. Let's move on. Resolution on Health Policy for All Citizens of BiH – Proposer Sead Buturović Who Is For? Who's against it? Thank you. Who's being held back? Thank you. Do you need an entity vote? It takes an entity vote. Who's for the Federation of BiH? Thank you. Who's in favour of the RS? - 3. Thank you. I'd like the results of the vote. 37 present. For 27 — abstention 10. Federation of BiH for 24-RS for 3. Correction is required – not accepted. Gentlemen, we have a motion for a resolution. Here you go, Mr. Banjac. Here you go, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6519	Dear gentlemen, the esteemed members of the Presidency, the distinguished guests, since I have not informed you in this way, firstly, that I am still performing in the BiH Parliament today as an independent MP and I ask that this status enables me and that I have the right to MPs, because I am not in the process of certain things, and I would like to be in progress. That's why I went out today to see what happened to my resolution that I suggested. She couldn't have been multiplied in time this morning, so I ask you to accept it as a fact and to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And if you don't have a text, I have a text on me. Now he will be multiplied and given. I hurried to multiply that too. It's about condemning terrorism in the world, because I don't see any 11 reasons to locate it on a single problem. It should be located on a general problem, with concrete measures and activities.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6520	Thank you, Mr. Banjac. Does he have a job? Thank you. Gosodine Banjac, we can respect your request for the next reason. Since there has been a change in the Serbian Democratic Party Club, you have so far been the head of the SDS Club. I am informing the House of Representatives that the head of the Serbian Democratic Party club, Mr Momir Tošić, is no longer Mr Banjac and there have been some technical problems regarding the change in Mr Banjac's status, which, as he has now told us, is an independent MP. That's in line with the Rules of Procedure. Every MP has the right to decide whether to be in a club, at which club, or to be an independent MP. Mr. Banjac, you're absolutely right and all the MPs in this assembly will have equal rights and we'll respect everything equally. So, we have suggestions, please, we have a proposal to try to bring it down to two resolutions with three names. If I understand that correctly, or three resolutions, I ask Mr. Tošić to help me. The first is the resolution on the international community's energising takeover in resolving the Palestinian issue, tabled by proposals Halil Mehtić and Muhamed Begović. We have a resolution submitted by Mr. Mirko Banjac. A resolution on the condemnation of terrorism in the world. We have a resolution now. Please don't make this any more complicated. Please share the resolution. We have Mr. Tošić, please specify your position. Are you proposing a resolution or are you asking the agenda point to be called what you think it is? I'm asking Mr. Tošić. Here you go, Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6521	Business intervention. Ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members and MPs, dear guests, I think we're acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Of course, the intervention is in place, but only when we open that item of the agenda means that we put the resolution on the agenda, so that we can discuss both the name of the resolution and the content of the resolution and please make it quite clear and wait for Mr. Banjac's resolution and see what it is and make it clear about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6522	Thank you. Mr. Banjac, we need to look for a medium solution to get the agenda point. Here you go, Mr. Banjac, so that in the debate on the resolution we can, as Mr. Avdić said.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6523	Please, gentlemen, I think that every MP's proposal is equally important and I think that this can be overcome by the next way, that the agenda point is, considering and adopting resolutions and whether one or three will be adopted or we will sum it up, I think it's quite, just to respect that we respect each other. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6524	Thank you, Mr. Banjac. I think your proposal is good. It would vote considering and adopting resolutions. Well, that's fine. Please. Mr. Ljubić is asking for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6525	The Honorable Chairman, I think it would be inconclusive considering and adopting resolutions. Then at least we have to name them all who are resolutions. I can't see. It is clear there that the Rules of Procedure say that the resolution is passed, who endures it. If we say now you have three resolutions, who says I don't want a fourth resolution on any other matter. I think it'd be better if there was a need to give a break so that maybe it'd be claimed that we'd get all the resolutions written and then we'd make a statement, because this is how it's going to turn out to be inconclusive, as we just say, just what we're saying in multiple resolutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6526	Thank you, Mr. Ljubić. The thing's been brought to an end, and I think we can go with the next proposal, which is that we have a break for ten minutes. It means up to 15 to 1. Then will be the Expansive College, the Uzi College, to try to agree on dispute points that did not receive the entity's majority. I would like the motions of the resolution to try and talk, in agreement, to coordinate this point to read the agenda. Thank you. We'll continue at 15 to 1. I'll wait a few more minutes and then we'll go. [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats. At the break there was a session of the Watch Tower College, and the motions for a resolution met. We have suggested that the proposings, the MPs who have extended the resolutions of the meeting, to find a way to solve this issue over that part of the agenda. I ask the Members of Parliament, the motions of the resolution, if you have agreed and what you have agreed. Here you go, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6527	Since the protractor of the resolution has come to an agreement with one good will, I suggest we wait until the other two colleagues come and bring the text that we have agreed on. I wouldn't, then, if I were to talk about it without them. I'd like to propose to the UZ college to consider whether we should take a half-hour break now and wait for this multiple of this joint resolution. In that period, I think it would be wise for you to see what's going on with the budget, because this isn't right, gentlemen. With this gesture, BiH is entering a very serious crisis. I invite you as an MP to sit down and try to find a compromise solution within half an hour to keep the budget going anyway. I think it's clear to all of you that this is the April month, and that, therefore, the first third of the year has passed. I think that, without any political investment in the political content of what is happening, but practically speaking, we all suffer because of this situation. I beg you gentlemen, try to find a solution and sit down and see what you can do as a College. I suggest you invite the Council of Ministers to this session and find a solution together. I'm not sure, gentlemen, that this tightness is going to get any better, it's going to be the opposite. On the contrary. I think what you are doing, doing to the harm of the peoples and the citizens of BiH, doing to harm this Parliament, you are making gentlemen one of the ugliest services negative to the overall development of the political situation in BiH. So that doesn't happen, I'm asking you to try and find a solution. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6528	Thank you, Mr. Banjac. The home will plead, not the College. Now that we're going into some broad discussion, I'm asking you to discuss the agenda. Excuse me, it's 1 o'clock. Take it easy, colleague Šarganović. Our colleagues working on this text are gone and it's normal for us to wait for them to do what they do to prepare and end it that way. So, I think they've had enough half an hour. The break will be half an hour. You can take a break and continue at half two. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Šarganović. Let's hear Mr. Šarganović and after that, it's a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6529	It was very nice to hear from Mr. Banjac. I respect our esteemed colleague. This is a real discussion, but I would say and pray to my dear colleague, not to say in his presentation, but to us. When there was a vote on the agenda point on the budget, my fellow MP - the MP did not vote for a conclusion. I'd like to ask him to find two more votes and then...
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6530	Now I'll give you my word. Please, Mr. Banjac and Mr. Borić, please, and finish. Mr. Banjac has a replica. Here you go, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6531	Of course, dear gentlemen and honourable fellow Members, you certainly didn't know my reasons why I voted against it. It is not clear to me that in the budget, gentlemen chairing clearly that you cannot maintain order in this assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6532	You got it. Here you go, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6533	I can't discuss it like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6534	I ask the Members of Parliament to listen to Mr Banjac. Gentlemen, if you don't stick to the line, I'll ask you out. Here you go, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6535	I think it's absolute, I have no objection to what the MP said. That's what it looks like when you're looking, and now I'm asking my esteemed colleague. Out of so many hundreds of millions of marks, honourable Members of Parliament, is it really the most important number 400,000? We here, to know the public of BiH, are standing here for 400,000. I will never agree that 400,000 is the most important thing for this country and these peoples and citizens. I think you gentlemen should answer a few questions before that. Maybe you shouldn't have asked me to talk. I didn't want to talk, but I'll talk now. 14 Dear gentlemen, we know that the disputed item has been going through the budget for two years, this is the third. How is it now found to be a major disturbance to what is happening around the budget and about the budget? I will never agree that this is the most important problem of BiH and I will never admit or agree that this is one, the main reason BiH does not have a budget in April. That's why I invite you and myself to reason, and I'm ready for reason. There's a solution if we want to. There's never an unexplainable situation, and what we've done, we've shown that 400,000 is worth more than hundreds and hundreds of millions of marks to this country. That's not good, gentlemen. Sit down, gentlemen. Why do I tell you? You have an alliance, gentlemen. You have the parliamentary majority. I can only be a man with the best wishes to show you, please do. I know and accept that every decision-making organ is democratic, most of those who vote and are elected. You're doing it. But, gentlemen, with this gesture that you're doing today, you're taking responsibility and all your responsibility in the Alliance. Why doesn't Bosnia and Herzegovina have a budget? That's not Mirko Banjac. I'd like to help you, just show me out here and tell me. Why is 400,000 the most important figure in the Budget of BiH? When you convince me it's the most important number and I'll be the reason. It's not true that it's the most important number. This is political tension, forgive the expression and political manipulation, and I don't want it to happen here and please find a compromise for you who have a majority. If you can't do it, then you have to say it's a crisis of the Council of Ministers. You have to resign and there's nothing else to say to this people. Don't be mad. That's right. I don't mean to, I know I won't replace you, but I'm asking you to work out your consciousness, to put away your emotions and your continuances. Help make this happen and we have a budget today.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6536	Thank you, Mr. Banjac. Avdić and Mr. Borić. I apologize, Mr. Borić is a replica, and we'll finish the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6537	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, dear guests, I am pleased as MP Banjac says to work on his conscience, but his conscience should have worked out when determining the agenda. We didn't get a chance to talk about the budget. Which means, all those who voted against including the budget point at today's House of Representatives session of the Parliamentary Assembly should consider their conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6538	Mr. Borić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6539	The Democratic Party's club has serious budget remarks, but we wanted to and we voted to put this issue on the agenda, an important issue. However, why is this important item not included on the agenda, I, the Party of Democratic Action's Club, sees this College of Representatives as responsible at home. The Business College was obliged to put up a draft budget in November and to hold a debate and to adopt this important document, so much more, as the Alliance for Change said we would have a development budget, not by adopting the budget and by making a provisional decision by the government in the coming period, we actually have a budget that cannot monitor system institutions. So it was brought to BiH to normally exist. The MPs' club demands the responsibility of this college, because we appreciate that they are the most responsible for not adopting the budget. 15 As far as not putting the budget on the agenda, as far as 400,000 items are concerned, this is not about 400,000. This could be about 20 billion. But we wanted to have a debate, we wanted it to be on the agenda so we could open the debate and then, with the basis of the debate, come to a conclusion that would put us all in the same position. Unfortunately, the Alliance for Change has failed to secure the majority for the budget. She only managed to provide most of the personnel solutions for other projects, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6540	Thank you very much. Please, have a seat. The debate on the agenda is over. We gentlemen have received a proposal, we have received a motion for a resolution signed by all the promoters. I don't think it's disputed anymore that we can approach the decision-making process. I ask that we plead and move on with our work. No breaks, 'cause the break was supposed to come. I ask the MPs to vote. He'll dobiti you on the table. I'm asking you to work. Now it's half past two we didn't do anything. Please, gentlemen, the College disagreed on the proposal of those points that did not receive the entity majority. If the Council of Ministers could not agree and there was no consensus there. If she couldn't agree with the presidency. There was no consensus there, then don't expect this college to reach a consensus on the issue in such a short time. Gentlemen, we're putting it to a vote. We should vote according to the Rules of Procedure. We're pleading against it. So, against since this is the second round of voting. Entity majority not reached. If the College fails to reach an agreement, the decision will be taken by the majority of the total number of MPs present and voting, with the condition that they vote against, no two-thirds or more of the MPs elected from each entity. We are talking about the BiH institutions' draft budget and international commitments for 2002 – first reading. Who's from the Federation of BiH against?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6541	It can't be like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6542	Mr. Banjac, I put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6543	I want to know what's controversial that you couldn't... say gentlemen. Don't do it like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6544	Mr. Banjac, go ahead and sit down. Mr. Banjac, the debate is over and I will answer your question and I assume everyone in this room and all the citizens who follow this session know what's controversial. You have disputed and other MPs have disputed in the debate now at the session, which is a financing item for BiH agents before the International Court of Justice in The Hague. There was no agreement on the issue either in the Council of Ministers, nor in the BiH presidency, and there is no agreement on this either in the political public of BiH. It's a major political issue that we haven't reached agreement on. You've received a report on which we have not reached agreement. I'm putting a motion to vote. 16 Who is from the Federation of BiH against the adoption of the budget? Here you go. It's all clear. What's the matter, Mr. Banjac? What's the problem?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6545	...a man says 20 million marks and you say I know something. I'm an MP. I don't know anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6546	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, I am now in one doubt. The chairman said the budget was not agreed at the presidency and is not on the Council. What resolution on which parliamentary procedure did he enter the parliamentary procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly? I don't get it now. If we don't have an official proposal, who is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6547	Gosodine Malkić, thank you. You've all got the materials. All materials from the Council of Ministers and Bureaus and materials from the House of Representatives were available to you. Gentlemen, the debate on the agenda is over. We've come to an act of voting. I ask you, who is from the Federation of BiH against the BiH institution's draft budget and international commitments for 2002 being placed on the agenda. Please vote. Who's against the Federation of BiH? The debate is over. Niko. Who is from the RS against BiH's 2002 international commitment to the BiH institution's budget being placed on the agenda? Who's against it? Thank you. I'd like the results of the vote. Members of the RS v. 10 – from the Federation no one. He didn't get into the agenda. The draft law on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2002 is against the proposal to enter the agenda. Please be heard by the MPs from the RS. Thank you. Who's against the Federation of BiH? I find that no one from the Federation opposes RS 10 against and that the draft law on the implementation of the BiH institutions and international obligations for BiH for 2002 did not enter the agenda. A resolution on health policy for all BiH citizens – Proposer Sead Buturovićć Ko is from the same issue of entering the agenda. Who is from the Federation of BiH against entering the agenda? - Nobody. Who's from the RS against entering the agenda? Thank you. I'd like the results of the vote. The result of the vote is the same. We have a quorum that's not controversial. By entities, the Federation no one against, Republika Srpska versus 10. I figure it didn't get into the agenda. Gentlemen, we have missed the wrong vote and we will now come forward with the proposal for an agreement between BiH and the Republic of Turkey on cultural co-operation. To ratify 17 protocols on the establishment and functioning of cultural centres between the Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Turkey. Now we'll go round one and round two. Who is in favour of entering the protocol on the establishment and functioning of cultural centres between the BiH Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Turkey. I ask the messengers to plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'd like the results of the vote. Do you need an entity vote? It has to be entity. Please vote on the entities. Who's for the Federation of BiH? Thank you. Who's from RS for? I'd like the results of the vote. The results of the vote, present 37 – for 29 – against 4. By entities. Federation of BiH for 24-RS for 4. We're moving on to the second round of voting. There's no need to take a break. Who is from the Federation of BiH against entering the agenda? Thank you. Who is from the RS against this point entering the agenda? Please follow. Ratification of the Protocol establishing and functioning cultural centres between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey. Who's against the RS? I ask the MPs to follow the session. Thank you. I'd like the results of the vote. The results of the second round vote. By entities against the Federation of BiH, no one. From the RS against the 9th. So this point went into the agenda today. Did we all get the proposal text resolution? Please, since the MPs have not received, have we all received a proposal for the text of the resolution. Please, since the MPs have not received, please the group, please follow the session. Please, who from the group who agreed to the question of entering the resolution will report to the House of Representatives on the agenda, or read the text of the resolution. Here's what we get on the table. I ask the MPs to take a look, to make a statement on the agenda. Gentlemen, have you all received the text of the resolution? I'm asking the Service to share. Have a seat, Mr. Banjac. The MPs are reading the resolution. You'll get your word. Sit down, Mr. Banjac. I'm asking the Service to do it faster. Gentlemen, have you received your resolution? Have you read the resolution? I don't think there's anything controversial here, because all the motionors of the resolution have agreed and signed. We are now not deciding on the text of the resolution, but deciding whether or not we are entering the agenda, and when the debate can be proposed to the amendment. That's why I'm asking you gentlemen MPs to make a statement. 18 Who is in the agenda of a resolution condemning terrorism in the Middle East and the Balkans. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's being held back? Niko. I'd like the results of the vote. This is the first decision unanimous today. 37 present – 37 for. Gentlemen, I will read the draft agenda and then we will vote on it. 1. The adoption of the minutes from 21st and 22nd session of House of Representatives 2. Legislative questions and answers 3. Report by the Joint Commission on the conclusion of an agreement on the uniform text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of BiH 4. Report by the Joint Commission on the conclusion of an agreement on the single text of the Law on the Use and Protection of the Red Cross/Cryser Sign and the name Red Cross/Cruise of BiH 5. Request of the People's House to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act under an urgent procedure under Article 105. Six. The request of the People's House to consider the Proposal for a Law establishing an Institute for Accreditation of BiH under emergency procedure, Article 105. Seven. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Aviation Act under emergency procedure Article 104. Rules of Procedure 8. Proposal for a Law on the Society of the Red Cross/Cross of BiH – Second Reading 9. Proposal for a Law on Administrative Disputes of BiH – Second Reading 10. Proposal for a law on the initial procedure – second reading 11. Proposal for a law on concessions in BiH – first reading 12. Resolution on regulation of the legal status of BiH's institutions of science and culture – Proposer Sead Avdić 13. Report on the audit carried out for 2002 14. A resolution relating to health care – a resolution that is correct. The resolution of Mr. Buturović who entered. I apologize for my mistake. 14. Giving consent to those three agreements for BiH's accession to the Statute of the Council of Europe, for the ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between BiH and the Federal Government, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, for the ratification of the Protocol establishing and functioning of cultural centres between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey 15. Determining the competent commission to consider the BiH News Agency's proposal for a law on 16. A resolution on the condemnation of terrorism in the Middle East and the Balkans. It's the agenda. Gentlemen, the problem is that there have been a lot of changes, a lot of voting, but in the end, it is the correct agenda. Please state who's in charge of this agenda? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? - Two abstentions. Present 37 - 34 for - abstention 3. I konstatovati that the draft agenda has been adopted. 19 Gentlemen, I suggest we continue our work so that we do not repeat that we do not waste time. Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes from the 21st and 22nd session of the House of Representatives does it have any objections to the minutes? Is anyone answering for a word? I must inform you there is one printing error. On page 7, he said that the chairman urged MPs to discuss the first reading instead of reading the second reading. It's that printing mistake. Since no one's answering for a word, I'm putting a motion for a record to vote. Who's for the adoption of the minutes from the 21st and 22nd sessions? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Niko. I'd like the results of the vote. Of the 37 MPs present, I find that the minutes of the 21st and 22nd session were adopted unanimously. We're moving to agenda two. Ad.2. MPs' questions and answers, gentlemen, please be my guest. Mr. Kovačević, Mr. Banjac, Mr. Šarganović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6548	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, my parliamentary question is. Whether an emergency problem of the border crossing at Shamac can be solved, so that it can be operated at full capacity. Second question. To determine the responsibility of the ministry and the minister who failed to resolve the issue in time. That bridge was opened yesterday. It invested 14.5m euros and was only released for passenger transport and is not on rail, not on freight. Bosnia and Herzegovina suffers multiple damage. People from the European Union - communities could make a bridge that big to invest that much money in the euro, and we couldn't solve the issue of the operation and operation of that bridge in full capacity. Thank you. I guess someone should give a shit about that head thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6549	Thank you. Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6550	Gentlemen, I have three questions. All three were sent to the College. First, which legal argument that I couldn't get an answer before voting on the budget, because this was about 400,000 marks as controversial and 20 billion marks as controversial. I wanted to see what it was about, why that difference was, and you wouldn't let me get that answer, and you're saying that it's all clear to the public, and the MP, here I am, hearing and seeing well, it's not clear here, and like everyone else, it's clear. The second question is, where do you find a foothold in the Rules of Procedure, that you give arbitrary silence without a real break and thus create a very comical atmosphere in Parliament. 20 Third question, gentlemen, I asked more than a month ago about the usurpation of the assets of a group of citizens in the Sansa Most. Until today, I have not received an answer, and I have not been able to speak wisely. He does not want to discuss the subject, and then I said I was ready under the same circumstances, any group of BiH citizens in the same way, however, obviously that issues are coming here selectively and are selectively responding to them. I'm asking you not to. If that still seems to be the case, I think my parliamentary rights are seriously at stake here, so I'm asking for a public statement as to why it seems. Here are your questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6551	Thank you, Mr. Banjac. Mr. Šarganović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6552	I have three questions. First is the Council of Ministers (a) when the border crossing of two categories will be established in Costa Rica. Kostanica, Croatia Kostanica, in line with the agreement on priorities signed by BiH and Croatia since 27.7.1999. b) Will a temporary border crossing for private, private cars and passengers be established until the modern final border crossing of the second category, so that people can communicate and work on their vital private interest? c) Will the urgent procedure be regulated and implemented between BiH, agreed by respecting the natural and historical facts and respecting BiH's interest and integrity and BiH's territory? The contribution to this question is next. The agreement signed on 27.7.1999, aero photo shoot and documentation, map, complete map with proposals, to facilitate the work on finding a quality solution and to get this back to me when I get the answer. Furthermore, the agreement on the state border between BiH and Croatia and more cards and cards in favour of not showing now, which is very enough to address this issue in quality. Thirdly, what is and what is the Council of Ministers' original income for the BiH state for 2002? b) whether the BiH budget implementation law for 2002 will include the original revenues of the BiH state in the necessary financial amount for the financing of state institutions, the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, DGS etc. Question from the College of Representatives at home. When will the official big wall clock be installed here for official time measurement in the House of Representatives? Why this? Explanation. There are frequent breaks from this tall home, so we don't know how long the official minutes are. Is she 60 seconds or, because we're going to be 15 minutes and 60 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6553	Thank you, Mr. Šarganović. Mr. Đedović. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6554	Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of a group of Members, I asked a question. Is anyone on behalf of BiH discussing or negotiating BiH's accession to the Partnership for Peace and is there a certain dynamic of approaching the organisation? The group of MPs is: Šarganović, Mašović, Lolić and Stanimirović. I didn't get an answer until today. Now it's a question of why. It's a new question. How many liters of fuel and a registered vehicle are allocated for roads in the Federation of BiH and RS, and how are these funds spent? How is it possible that these funds cannot mark the basic signalling on our roads? Who travels this country? I can understand that we lure for the highway, but there are no kilos of paint to mark the white – yellow color, it is incomprehensible to me and it certainly causes great damage and consequences even in human lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6555	Thank you. Mr. Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6556	Madam Chairman, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I have a question for the Council of Ministers and the Presidency. What has the BiH Government, or the Council of Ministers and the Presidency, done or plans to do on the basis of reports of events in Srebrenica in July 1995, based on a report by the UN, a parliamentary report by France, a Dutch report and others, when a crime took place, or genocide against the Bosniaks of the UN-protected zone of Srebrenica? Yesterday because of these developments in our recent past, the Dutch government also resigned. The resignation is a response to a crime, i.e. genocide that took place in July 1995 over Bosniaks of the Srebrenica Protected Zone. The resignation is an act that was extorted by the report of the RIO, or the Royal Institute of History, which is to say hello, but the families of the victims and we here with this report cannot be satisfied, even more should we condemn him. There's a question. When, in the face of the world's public, the guilt of both perpetrators and those who did not prevent the crime, why did they wait this long with the report and other reports? Generally, all previous UN reports of French, Dutch and others point to crime, as well as to responsibility for the misdemeanor, i.e. the provision of crime or liability for failure to commit, i.e. the failure to take the necessary measures to prevent crime, which is now continuing in a more perfiduous manner. Even more so, the president of the RS government said when visiting the BBC on the issue of Srebrenica: "Self is the worst that Srbin could do and that is why we will pay." This is a quote. The question arises as to how the consequences for the responsible are and how can be provided, i.e. to enable the sadification of families to suffer protected zones of Srebrenica. The Srebrenica municipality's assembly took some steps in this direction and adopted a Resolution on the special treatment of the Srebrenica municipality. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly expects support on what will be at the state level to support the municipality's work and its administration, based on the Resolution and to pass a law on Srebrenica. The bill will be sent to the assembly procedure as soon as possible. My fellow MPs, the goal of this brief introduction is not to go back into the past but to offer two conclusions. 22 That this and similar reports that truly do not give a picture of the events and do not give solutions to overcoming the problem, i.e. do not offer the sadification of families of victims, and drugi, to conduct diplomatic activity in the relation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, against the UN of the Netherlands and other co-responsible in the case of the Srebrenica protected zone of the UN, in order to in some way deprive the families. In this direction, I, for one of the next sessions and propose a agenda debate on reports and developments in July 1995 in Srebrenica, a UN-protected zone.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6557	Mr. Baković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6558	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, I'd like to say a few words about the exiled Hrvat in the Drava. These days through the press or the media, you could hear and see the difficult position of these people, who have been exiled from their hearths, are currently in the woodwork. However, their situation is no better than perhaps '93. And in '94, when they left their homeland. Namely, they found temporary accommodation in the houses of the wooden Srbin and, of course, by law private property must be given to the one whose property it is. But don't worry about allowing these people alternative accommodation and this BiH state, as well as the Federation, as well as the RS, because I'm not excluding it, insufficiently or in no way taking care of it and such people, to enable them to return to their homeland. So they're left to themselves, in fact they're no one's citizens, no one's people, and they're the product of an evil fate, of an evil malice, but also one policy, which has nothing almost effective in itself, nothing creative, or even anything smart. These people are wandering and are now becoming the subject of the care of the Republic of Croatia, going to Knin, etc. In this regard, I would ask one question to the BiH Ministry of Human Rights as well as to the Federation, specifically to Mr Krešimir Zubak. What is the ministry doing about the position of these people of these exiled Hrvat? I, as far as I have seen, neither the BiH Ministry of Human Rights nor the Federation, and thank Bog nor the RS has once appeared to have said or intervened or given any hope of helping these people. Therefore, I would like to address the parliamentary question to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, Mr. Krešimir Zubak. What does the Ministry do, what does it intend and does it intend to help these people? What are the apatrides, in fact, people who are both homeless and homeless and countryless, and now there's a question about who's going to take care of them? Whether the international community, whether a neighbouring country, whether this country etc.? So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6559	Thank you, Mr. Baković. Give it to the Secretary of the House. Is anyone else answering the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6560	Gentlemen Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, you remember that my questions are often related to the implementation of the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement, of course other issues. You also remember that I asked the Ministry of our competent bulletin, the information and everything the Ministry has to offer to make it easier for our returnees to return to their seats and get to their property as soon as possible. However, I can conclude that, with respect to all this information in these bulletins, however, this process is very slowly moving away. My question is this. Has the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons worked to simplify the return procedure as much as possible, as well as the return of assets? Here's why I'm setting it up. A brief explanation. For example. Me and my brothers, for example. We're looking for our property from 29.1.1996 to 20.3.2002. During that period we sent various requests, urgenities, complaints, applications, power of 112 documents us four small statistics, a total of 448 documents. The total number of papers written about it is 383, and if multiplied by four, that's 1532. Total paper weight of 11,620 grams. It's a letter of recommendation with a return of 40 pieces. The departures, travel expenses, various fees, per month at 76.30 KM for six years, i.e. 72 months, amounting to 5,492 stamps and, of course, still not returned, nothing has been returned to us in possession of what we were looking for. If they put together the documentation so far in a roll and delivered along the road, the length would be 451 metres and 94 cm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6561	Thank you. Who's on the phone with the word? Mr. Miro Grabovac Titan. Here you go, Mr. Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6562	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, I am not going to ask new questions but to renew the old questions, given that I have received answers to two so far to the last of my parliamentary questions which were, one of the 12.2.2000s from the ministrstvo of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and I must say, I must commend that the answer was complete and as I asked when it came to this resolution ministry. However, I must show my disappointment to the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons and Asylum, by the answer given to me. I don't know what he's talking about, because I didn't even ask if it was an interstate agreement and whether it was supposed to be verified. However, I do respond to that part, but I do not respond to the part I asked for, with this, I will renew my parliamentary question from February 12th 2002, which was addressed to the Ministry of Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum to Mr Zbak and the Ministry of the Defence of the Homeland War of the Federation of BiH. That's what it says. I'll do it again. Do they have the same status as developed defenders in the distribution of donated funds that have no problem with housing and who have been destroyed by housing units and have not been restored with military people with disabilities, families of the deceased members of the HVO? Secondly, who lays down the criteria for the award of these donations, and which body sets priorities for the assignment? I ask that these questions be answered, which I have asked, not whether they have the weight of an interstate agreement and whether to verify it or not. Therefore, to comply with the Federation government's conclusion on consent from the signing of this agreement for the Council of Ministers. Thank you. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6563	Thank you, Mr. Grabovac. Is anyone else answering for word? Mr Majdandžić, Mr. Spasojević. Please stick to the time foreseen by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6564	Dear Chairman, esteemed representatives and guests, my question concerns the fact that there is no point in even asking questions here. First, many answers come in incorrect, for example, to me. The answers did not come from the last time I asked the question, but when some answers come to you if they are correct, they are already outdated, overcome or changed, not mean actual. It's kind of lost its value to me, and if we're well-intentioned, then we want a lot of things to solve in walking to prevent us and so on. I'd suggest something, but what I'm going to suggest to the College is against it. I don't understand why that is. I would suggest that in front of each of our sessions one hour separate questions and talks with the Council of Ministers, where we will directly ask the relevant questions and get immediate answers and many things solved, resolved and in fact they themselves will be clear. It is also a practice in other parliaments. I know a few states where that is. I don't know why we're running away from it. It is, limit an hour and limit the number of issues of individual parties and parties, thus being operational and constructive and current, etc. Turns out I tell you personally that a lot of questions are asked and you get after a month – two incompletes, the whole thing has no purpose. Yeah, for example. I won't ask any more questions. What I'm going to do, I've been trying and no results. I'd like to really think this through and try it that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6565	Thank you for your suggestion, Mr. Majdandžić. Mr. Zoran Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6566	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, dear guests, since almost all MPs are not satisfied with their questions and I have been dissatisfied with some of my questions, but this time I would like to commend the Council of Ministers, because they have really done something, they have moved something about one of my questions that I have been saying, and this is about the launch of the work of Sekera in Bijeljina. I thank them once again because the Italian government donated seed to the sugar beet so that the farmers of Semberia will be able to sow some of the sugar tail this summer, which is just one beginning, and I think it's one pioneering part. The Republika Srpska government will likely have to participate a little more in launching the only Šećerana in Bijeljina. I, I think, asked another question at the 12th session – could the Council of Ministers help the financial city of Bijeljina with the sewer project and then said that it was a bigger city in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and perhaps in a Europe that has no sewerage and we are now going to this project a little more seriously and I am now asking the Council of Ministers again if it can financially help with the sewerage in the town of Bijeljina and I thank you in advance. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6567	Thank you, Mr. Spasojević. Since no one is answering the words of the Members of Parliament anymore, we are concluding the second item of the agenda for parliamentary questions and answers. Are you ready to give answers? Why didn't you react, Mr. Minister? Here you go, Mr. Minister. I'm just asking you briefly and precisely.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6568	Very short. I'd like to answer Mr. Šarganović. Bosnia and Herzegovina has no original income. Bosnia and Herzegovina has only some revenue from fees and fees it provides such as fees and fees for issuing passports, visas, etc., then revenues from the Institute of Standards, the Institute of Accreditation and revenue for the collection of frequency spectrum services. According to the unaccepted budget, that is, its proposal accounts for around 55.7m or 30% of Bosnia and Herzegovina's total income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6569	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Šarganović, please very briefly.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6570	I would only ask that if it is possible to write this so that I could launch the initiative that Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state has its original revenues in full capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6571	Thank you, Mr. Šarganović. I note that none of the MPs answer for a word. Mr. Minister tried to dà respond. We thank him for that. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. Ad. 3. Report by the Joint Commission on the conclusion of an agreement on the uniform text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Members of the Parliaments before you Report, notice of the work of the Joint Commission on the conclusion of an agreement on the same text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I will read only the conclusion of this report in which it stands – bearing in mind that the Joint Commission for the conclusion of an agreement on the same text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act did not reach an agreement on the same text of the Law, and in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act shall be considered as being rejected and our procedure shall be completed. Of course, our appeal is for the Council of Ministers to prepare a new bill urgently. You did ask for a word. Here you go, ma'am. Ms Azra Hadžiahmetović, Minister. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6572	I would like to thank, honourable chairman, MPs of both homes, colleagues and colleagues and distinguished guests. The Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, referred last year to the procedure under Parliament the Law, i.e. the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina, including the Customs Tariff. The House of Representatives adopted the text of this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, i.e. a tariff in the same text as proposed by the Council of Ministers, respecting the arguments made by the Council of Ministers, and I consider that, despite your adoption of the text, this law in the text proposed by the Council of Ministers, which requires that I inform you of the consequences of such procedures, such as this, or the procedure for the non-compliance of the law. On several occasions, the resolution ministry has been consulted in the parliamentary procedure particularly by MPs, i.e. delegates from the House of Peoples, concerning the content of individual amendments relating to amendments and additions to the Customs Tariff Act. In particular, certain parts of the tariff. The foreign trade and economic relations ministry gave its opinion on certain amendments, taking into account not only the tariff and customs burdens themselves, as much as the possibility of Bosnia and Herzegovina increasing, i.e. reducing the tariff itself, increasing its negotiating position in negotiations with other countries regarding our approach to the World Trade Organisation. It approaches the membership of the World Trade Organisation and implements other arrangements relating to the realisation of trade, especially in the region. On several occasions, the resolution ministry addressed the co-workers of both homes, especially the Commission, and physically present at the Commission for the alignment of both homes, used the argument. But the result is as you've seen we don't have the law. I want to meet you about the next one. The existing law, which was predetermined and adopted by this House of Parliament, has only passed the tariffs into a complex tariff. So the tariff hasn't been changed. The result, therefore, for the Bosnian-Herzegovic production of such a outcome of the law will continue to be the same. So we will continue to have customs burdens equal, but we will also have advances and we will also have a prolongation of the start of negotiations for the accession of Bosnia and Herzegovina to membership in the World Trade Organisation. I just want to know that we are, in Europe today, three countries that are not members of the World Trade Organisation. It is Macedonia, Yugoslavia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. In order to join and start accession negotiations with the World Trade Organisation, we need to hand over a tariff and a memorandum that is supposed to start negotiations. Yugoslavia and Macedonia have already met the condition, handed over the memorandum and started negotiations. The outcome of this outcome in the parliamentary procedure means at least one year of prolonging the start of negotiations for the accession of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the World Trade Organisation. This is the Bosnian-Herzegovic public and this Parliament, or both of Parliament's homes, need to know. Secondly, in a recently signed Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy signed by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Treasury on behalf of state institutions, both entity prime ministers and both finance ministers from entity governments, together with the International Monetary Fund, which is requested for a new Stenbay arrangement, is very strict that the tariff should be adopted by an urgent procedure as proposed by the Council of Ministers that meets the requirements of the World Trade Organisation and that our membership... approximately for the start of next year. I remind you, we have projected about a year to complete the negotiations and our membership in the World Trade Organisation since the start of the negotiations. With this outcome of the law, we are extending the start of negotiations in at least a year. 27 Furthermore, I would especially like to know that the two amendments adopted in the House of Peoples, the amendment of MPs Jerko Ivanković, were totally unacceptable. The first amendment relates to the release of repromation by, the release from the payment of re-romitary customs duties, which would close the possibility of domestic production, because we can't introduce customs burdens on such materials afterwards. The second amendment introduced a category of machine - used meat that is not known in any tariff, nor in any country of the world. So technically it is completely inconclusive what unfortunately the delegates of the House of Nations have adopted such two amendments, in one way respecting the argument presented to them by the delegates Jerka Ivanković. The people's home will also be given an additional argument of what the consequences mean, because according to the new reports that I have received from the competent institutions, you will see what it would mean, or what the consequences are that we have even adopted such two amendments. This House, which adopted a proposal by the Council of Ministers, should know that with today's outcome of such a law, we, or Bosnia and Herzegovina, or Parliament, both houses of Parliament, are in one way all suffering together the consequences that will result in the economy of the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I thank you all. And I thank you for your attention. As far as tariffs are concerned, we have the same situation, because the existing tariff that was in the parliamentary procedure did not alter any customs burdens, it merely translated the levies into a complex tariff. So we continue to have the same economy, that is, for individual producers, the same consequences in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and by our position in the international environment, by our membership in the World Trade Organisation and by our communication with the International Monetary Fund and chain everything else, we have a far more difficult position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6573	Thank you, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. Mr. Sead Avdić, then Mr. brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6574	My koleginica Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, I would also like to show that the commission has exhausted all opportunities to reach an agreement and political concession of six members of these two commissions, namely the Joint Commission of both the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly. What should be pointed out is that the members of the Government of Republika Srpska, members of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the entity chamber, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and the Council of Ministers mostly supported the positions of the House of Representatives, i.e. the House of Representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives, exhausting and simply seeking full political consensus, objectively gave a 3:2 vote with one abstention of the College of the People's House that it is necessary to achieve a political consensus that is necessary under the Rules of Procedure of the House of People's House of Representatives is to reach an agreement within the Joint Commission and, in this context, the College of the Assembly of the House of Representatives, has also given an interpretation that it is necessary to achieve a full political concession. It is my personal opinion that in this context, this commission had no chance or opportunity with the fact that the more interested MPs, or delegates of the House of Peoples who were proposing these amendments, did not wish to give up their amendments, and in this context, this joint commission had no chance of success or to offer a positive result. We objectively believe that we have defended the views of the House of Representatives and that 28 The House of Representatives was on the right track when it agreed to such a customs tariff law proposed by the Council of Ministers. I am simply personally thinking that it is necessary to look for perhaps today and look for a possible solution, for a possible solution that this law does not experience such a fate by earning the tenacity of a delegate or two delegates of the House of Nations. I think it's a high degree of responsibility that requires us to see if there's any way out of this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6575	Thank you. Mr. Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6576	Honored presidency, respected colleagues, distinguished guests, respected seventh power. I cannot help but go out and express my disdain over these things that are happening today in Parliament. First because of the Budget, second now because of what the Minister has given us, which I am extremely esteemed and whose efforts and arguments I understand. But obviously something's not working. Come on, I came out here with a proposal, and now I'm going to tell him that we have a permanent session of Parliament until these things are removed. We can't sit here without nothing actually working. To indicate the name and last name of the brakes that hinder the alignment of the most vital interests of this country. Is that why there are political responsibilities from people who need to mean something in this country? In every normal state, I know we're still not that far from being a normal state, but in every normal state there's a responsibility, there are resignations. It doesn't work here, there's no resignation. It's not SDA's fault again. Please, I'm seriously saying if we need to work day and night to remove the brakes that prevent this country from standing on its feet and speaking openly, not by name and last name. Name it by name and by name who it is who doesn't want what the whole world wants. If the customs tariff law is at the European level, which bothers it to be at the European level in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that I know its name and name. That we all know that here. So please, we don't know, I don't know. Please, I want that to be said loud and clear. And let's see if that man behaves these functions. It's always someone else's fault. It's not someone else's fault. The culprits are people who need to exercise power, and they don't do it at the level where they have to do it... how they do it in every normal state. So my proposal is a constant session and finding a way out of the situation that we're in now that this country is getting on its feet faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6577	Thank you, Mr. brkati. Mr. Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6578	Dear Chairman, I was one of those who took part in the consent. I said I'd stay away from the concession because it takes a concession of all six members. But I would remind you that this house has reached one conclusion I think was, to prepare a new tariff until the end of the second month, and I don't know that it is. I see from this output if this is thought to be good or if something can be intervened on this in the meantime for some improvements nothing prevents the Council of Ministers until today, today we won't have any time, but tomorrow we will be offered whether the same tariff or whether 29 changed tariff and normal, we can speed up the procedure and we can implement it very quickly. I don't think we should complain about the tariff right now, we've had the procedure, maybe it's a mistake that it's been a little too long agreeing, counting on her to agree. But I don't think that there should be any more waiting if this tariff is considered good it can be given immediately tomorrow in parliamentary procedure and that procedure can be implemented by me within a relatively short period of a month. I think it's the only solution, and everything else is telling who's what. That's the procedure we have nothing to do with, I suggest you consider it, if you don't have any new ones to restore to go into the procedure as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6579	Thank you, colleague Ljubić. No Niko's answering for a word. In this case. Here you go, how not Mrs. Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6580	I thank you, perhaps an explanation and an answer to the MP Mariofil Ljubić. The existing tariff that was in front of you and which was in the parliamentary procedure, I will only mention that it was agreed from half of 1999 to some end, actually until October 2000. At that time, the chairman of the Council of Ministers sent a tariff to the parliamentary procedure. Meanwhile, there were rules of play on the world trade scene, so it was necessary for the advances to be included in the customs tariff. A tariff has been withdrawn from the parliamentary procedure. Meanwhile, a new Council of Ministers meeting came. It has been translated into a complex tariff and sent to Parliament. The resolution ministry and the Council of Ministers cannot change the tariff until it is either adopted or destroyed. We even gave the answer that immediately after the adoption of such a tariff, which was the assumption that a memorandum was handed over and negotiations with the World Trade Organisation started, which in one way is our stronger negotiating position because the advances were added to our otherwise low customs burdens that we cannot increase to immediately begin the negotiations on the development tariff. I'll just remind you that in these times I don't think this job can be done in a year. The ministry can do it in a month, but you know perfectly well if this tariff is harmonised from the 99th to the end of 2000, if it's this long in the parliamentary procedure this whole job here can't be completed in at least a year. Both this parliament and the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina need to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6581	Thank you. No Niko's answering for a word. In this case where the Commission has not reached agreement, the draft law shall be deemed to be the rejected Article 100(2). Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the same member, I hereby inform the House that the bill has been rejected. I will officially inform the Bureau and the Council of Ministers and renew this home's conclusion that February's fighting, well, that's now gone to the new draft law in the procedure. 30 Gentlemen, we are going to the fourth part of the agenda. It's Ad. 4. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of an agreement on the uniform text of the Law on the Use and Protection of the Red Cross/Crist and the name of the Red Cross/Crist/Crist of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Members of the Joint Commission reached an agreement on the same text of the Law on the Use and Protection of the Red Cross/Crist Mark and the name of the Red Cross/Crost Society in the text adopted by the House of People at the 15th session of the House of People held on 21 February, in which certain amendments were incorporated. You've reached the Joint Commission's report. The Joint Commission therefore reached an agreement on the same text of the Law with the amendments adopted and concluded that this report was sent to the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the adoption procedure. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Niko. I'm putting the Joint Commission's report to the vote. Who's for please? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's being held back? Niko. Please report. 31 present, 30 voted for, no need for an entity vote. I understand the commission report has been accepted. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad. 5. Request of the People's House to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act under an urgent procedure under Article 105. Allow me to remind you that the House of Nations adopted the House of Nations in its 100th Rules of Procedure at a session held on 07.03.2002, this law passed it on to us. It is the law, i.e. the decision to amend and supplement the BiH Customs Policy Act and the decision declared by the High Representative. Can I help you, gentlemen, to the Members of Parliament, who's answering for your word? This is by Article 105. Rules of Procedure. So, the thing is quite clear. Whether a request to comply with Article 105 can be accepted. Rules of Procedure? Who's in? We're moving on to a debate about the law? Who's answering for the word? Thank you. No Niko? We're going to vote. Who is in favour of the adoption of the Customs Policy Act under the urgent procedure of Article 105? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you. Who's against Mr. Neimarlija? Who's being held back. Thank you. Please report. Therefore, according to a request for a vote under Article 105 to operate under Article 105 present 22 for 28. Request accepted. After that, it was passed by law. Of the 32nd MP present for 32. Therefore, the law has been passed. 31 Ad.6. The request of the People's House to consider the Proposal for a Law establishing the Institute for Accreditation of BiH under the urgent procedure of Article 105. I'm opening a hearing with the Rules of Procedure. Who's to say whether or not we accept whether it goes by article 105? Who's answering for a word? Niko. I'm putting it to a vote. Who's to accept to go by Article 105? Proposed law? Who's against it? Abstained? Niko. I am opening a debate on the draft law establishing the BiH Accreditation Institute. Who's answering for a word? Niko. I'm putting it to a vote. Who's in favor of passing the law? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? I'd like a voter's report. I'll announce the results of the vote. It is all-obvious to accept a 32-vote request are 29 for. The vote on the law, the text of the law. Present 32 — for 31. There's no need for an entity vote at all. I find that the draft law establishing the BiH Accreditation Institute has been adopted. Gentlemen, it's 14 hours and 25 minutes. It takes a break. The break could be an hour and we'll continue at 15 hours and 30 minutes. Thank you. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Air Force of BiH under emergency procedure Article 104. [[PAUZA]] Business. Today, we just need to make sure that we accept that this request goes in accordance with Article 104 or that it goes in a regular manner. Gentlemen, just a little bit, you've received a bill of law, which contains the opinion of the Council of Ministers. If Mrs. Hadžiahmetović asks for a word, we will give her the word. Here you go, Mrs. Hadžiomerović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6582	The honourable MPs before you are the draft law amending and supplementing the BiH Aviation Act. It's about the short law of only four members. The essence of the change in this law refers to the establishment of an effective civil aviation administration structure at the national level, i.e. in the jurisdiction of state institutions. Specifically the BiH Civil Aviation Department. According to the applicable law in this institution, we have three directors with the usual rotation system in which each of them covered a particular area. As we have taken on certain obligations, the establishment between the other and the efficient administration of civil aviation and in coordination with OHR, SFOR and ICOM, the international association for civil aviation, Bosnia and Herzegovina is obliged to establish a new organisational structure of civil aviation, a non-government of civil aviation, and to implement and amend laws in accordance with this new organisational structure. These changes by the Council of Ministers to the parliamentary procedure with an application, i.e. the request to be considered by an urgent procedure, explain one more argument. 32 European Commission IKOU signed an agreement on BiH's assistance for the establishment of an effective administration of civil aviation... It's a dangerous project. He's time-limited. The Opas programme co-ordinator, Mr. Iglan Ber, has been in BiH for several months. Among other things, the engagement of experts themselves for training domestic people is envisaged, and the assumption is that we should elect a director, two deputies, or choose a structure in civil aviation in accordance with what is proposed to you by these amendments to this law. I call on this Parliament to adopt this short law on the establishment, i.e. only in that spirit, that is, the meaning that is necessary for us to go into the implementation of this programme and to adopt the new organisational structure by a reduced, or urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6583	Thank you. Mr. Stokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6584	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I would like to suggest on behalf of the club that this law goes into the regular assembly procedure, that it does not go by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6585	Who's answering for a word? Mr. Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6586	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen and I, too, suggest that this law should go into regular procedure, respecting all these circumstances, since we know that it is a good part, or rather... the structure of all this related to the law on the service of the state institutions of BiH, and we know that this law has not yet been passed, i.e. not yet agreed, that is to say, the establishment of a law on the services of state institutions that will also apply to this aviation. Therefore, I believe until this procedure is completed that he is going into regular procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6587	Thank you, Mr. Grabovac. Minister Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6588	I thank the chairman, I will only mention one director and two deputies. It's a fundamental change in this law that is before you. It's in line with this law that's in the final phase. I apologize only to mention this and is in line with the principles of introducing the Staff Policy established on the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6589	Thank you, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. Who's answering for a word? Niko. The debate is over. I ask the messengers to plead. 33 Who is in favour of accepting the request of the Council of Ministers for examination of the proposal for an Air Force Act under the urgent procedure under Article 104. Rules of Procedure? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's being held back? No abstentions. Please report. Does he need an entity vote? I'd like an entity vote. Who's in favour of the RS? Thank you. Who's for the Federation of BiH? Thank you. I'd like the results of the vote. Present 33 – for 31 – versus 12. It took a vote on the entities. Federation of BiH 19 for – RS for 3. It's a match. Thank you. We're going to point 8. Ad.8. Proposal for a Law on the Society of the Red Cross/Cross of BiH – Second Reading Gentlemen Members, we have received a report on the Proposal for a Law on the Society of the Red Cross/Cross of BiH. The report was forwarded by the Constitutional and Legal Commission. The report says that the Constitutional and Legal Commission unanimously adopted the text of the Bill on the Red Cross/Cross Society of BiH with amendments. She concluded that the proposed law must also be adopted and that the proposal for a law on the Red Cross/Cross Society of BiH is addressed to the House of Representatives. The amendments, in line with the Rules of Procedure, were submitted by Mr Sead Avdić, in line with Article 94(a). Whether the rapporteur in front of the Commission wants to address home. No, I don't. Council of Ministers? No, I don't. Mr. Avdić, do you want to speak to the House? Take it out.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6590	My fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, dear guests, I had the need to take the initiative of a series of representatives of the Red Cross/Cross BiH to appear in this way through the amendments in front of the House of Representatives, and it is that the Constitutional and Legal Commission adopted amendments to Article 7 and to Article 16 of the Red Cross Act, i.e. the Cross, which provide for reduction or in full neutralisation of the income of this humanitarian Enlightenment and in every sense an organization that deserves full attention. So, if the amendments were to be adopted by the Constitutional and First Commissions and become an integral part of the law, the objective association of the Red Cross/Cross at the level of BiH would not have the possibility of functioning from the aspect of income acquisition and they would absolutely not have, they would not have any concept of funding in terms of self-financing of this humanitarian health, education and any other organisation, which means that, within this amendment to Article 7, it is necessary to ensure that this institution can be able to provide itself with health-based guidance by medical assistance and in this context, which represents the interests of society and in this context, what represents the interests of society and in this context, that it can obtain some of income for self-financing of this institution. There you go. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6591	Thank you, Mr. Avdić. Is anyone else answering for word? No, I don't. The debate is over. We must declare to the Rules of Procedure the amendments submitted by Mr Avdić. Please, do all the amendments in front of you, to shorten the procedure. Therefore, Amendment I. Amendment V brisati the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which is referred to in Article 7(1), point 7, 8 and 9 shall be deleted. 34 Who is to accept the amendment and who has submitted Mr. Avdić? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's being held back? Do you need an entity vote? Who's for the Federation of BiH? Thank you. Who's in favour of the RS? Thank you. Please report. Amendment I. Present 34 – for 25 – v 9. According to entities, the Federation of BiH for 23 – RS 3 for. It's a match. amandman ii — Amendment VIII to the Constitutional and First Commission, as set out in Article 16(1) of indent 1, 3,4,6 and 8 shall be deleted. Who's to accept Amendment II, Mr. Avdić? Thank you. Who's against the Second Amendment? Who's being held back? Thank you. You need an entity vote? Who's for the Federation of BiH? Which one of the MPs from RS is for? Thank you. Please report. At present 35 for 26 – v 9. Federation of BiH for 23rd RS for 3rd Amendment II is going to be agreed upon. Gentlemen of Parliament, we're going to the next item of the agenda. Ad.9. We have a report on the Bill on Administrative Disputes of BiH – second reading Let me just remind you, we have a report on the Bill on Administrative Disputes of BiH. We have a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission that was the committee responsible. The constitutional-legislative commission unanimously adopted the text of the proposal for a law on BiH's administrative disputes with the amendments adopted. She concluded that the proposed law must also be adopted and that the proposal for a law on BiH's initial disputes should be addressed to the House of Representatives in a further procedure. The Constitutional and Legal Commission has seen several legal and linguistic inconsistencies in the text and believes it is necessary before publication to carry out legal and technical language development and to balance the text in all three languages of the constituent peoples in BiH. We don't have any amendments. Does the rapporteur in front of the Constitutional First Commission want to address the House of Representatives? No, I don't. Thank you, Mr. Banjac. If necessary, we will publicly commend both you and the Constitutional Legal Commission. Does a representative of the Council of Ministers want to address the House, or might he want to commend the Constitutional and Legal Commission? Okay, thank you. It won't bother a little bit. We don't have any amendments. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Who is for accepting the draft law on BiH's initial disputes in the second reading? Who's in? - Thank you. Mr. brkati, are you in or out? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Niko. I'd like some results. Attending 35 - vote for 35. I don't think I need an entity vote. Unanimously, thank you very much. I find that the draft law on BiH's initial disputes has been adopted. Gentlemen, since this law has also been passed by the House of Peoples, Secretary of the House has not been notified by one of the 35 amendments, it is necessary to elect a committee for reconciliation. Can we do it now? I suggest we find here now, name three members. Mirko Mijatović, Emina Zaćiratić. I would like to ask another MP from the order of the Croatian people. I'd like to ask the club. Miro Grabovac. Thank you. Gentlemen, we have a proposal. Who's for three representatives in the joint commission. Let's hurry up before the three of them change their minds. Thank you. I also find that we have elected members of the joint commission. We're going to point 10. Ad.10. Proposal for a law on the initial procedure – second reading allow Members of the Parliament to remind you. The Constitutional and Legal Commission, which is the committee responsible for the law on the initial procedure, unanimously adopted the text of the proposal for a law on administrative procedure with the amendments adopted. It concluded that the proposed law should also be adopted and that the proposal for a law on the initial procedure should be referred to the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly in further procedure and adoption. It's the text of the law on the initial procedure. We didn't have any amendments. We don't have an amendment. The amendments were adopted by the commission. The Commission has clearly reached a consensus. Does the committee's rapporteur want to address the House? Does the Council of Ministers want the representative to address the House? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Niko. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting it to a vote. Who is the second reading of the Law on Administrative Procedure? Who's against it? Niko. Who's being held back? Niko. Unanimity. Please report. 35 MPs present – 35 votes for. Obviously, there's no need for an entity vote. I find that the proposal for a law on administrative procedure has been adopted. Is it necessary to form a commission? The home of the people has passed this law with three amendments. I've already heard a good idea, I'll repeat it out loud, that the same commission be the law on administrative procedure and administrative dispute tied up. Do we agree that it'll be the same commission? Who's in? We need to make a statement by voting. Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Niko. I find that we have chosen a committee, members of the Joint Commission for the Proposal for a Law on Administrative Procedure. These are: Mirko Mijatović, Emina Zaćiragić and Miro Grabovac Titan. Ad.11. The proposed law on concessions for BiH – here we have the first reading to remind you of the Members of Parliament. The Commission submitted a new report to the House of Representatives, so it is a new report on the BiH concession law. The chairman of the House of Representatives provided the Finance and Budget Commission with the conclusion of the 20th session of the House, held on 12 February in accordance with Article 95(3). The rules of procedure provide a new report on the BiH concession law. Most of the votes, therefore, were not unanimously decided by the Commission to remain in the previous report, but had a basis of 36 to engage in the examination of the proposed amendments by MEPs Abdurahman Malkić and Mirko Banjac. The Commission considered the amendments. She adopted something and something didn't. In the end, she gave the opinion that it is necessary to pass a law on BiH concessions. My remarks to the Commission and my colleague, Zaćiragić, only ask that, in future, when the report is written, to state that, if it is, whether it is by majority vote or unanimous, so that we would have that information, for the reason that when the Commission adopts something unanimously, you see that we are going very quickly to the House session. Okay, thank you. Just a little more notice. We had before the commission report. We have all the necessary reports. I think you have them on you. The amendments have Banjac renewed. Isn't that right, Mr. Banjac, you've restored? Mr. Malkić, all I know is we're realizing they've been restored. Mr. Malkić, did you renew the amendments? It's not. The procedure goes well with Mr. Banjac's amendment. Does the Commission's rapporteur want to? Excellent, colleague Zaćiragić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6592	I welcome the present on behalf of the Finance and Budget Commission. I'll give you an explanation. We in the Finance and Budget Committee have taken very seriously the conclusion of this 20-session House to submit a new report on the principles of concession laws. By considering our new role now, we had a few dilemmas. One part of the dilemma is indicated in the report. First, according to the Rules of Procedure, it can be returned to the Commission for a new report of the law as it was done by this home, but there must be guidelines. We were tasked with taking out some information from the discussion, from the stenogram at the House meeting on February 26th, which would be a guideline for the new report. However, from these discussions which we seriously considered to the Commission, it was seen that the overwhelming part... of this law is going on constitutional basis. Only one part of Mr Mirko Banjac referred to the principle of division of jurisdiction and the principle of subordination. That was briefly explained. So, we didn't have thorough and reasoned guidelines and this is the first time that a commission is being returned to the law for a new report and in the future these guidelines should be kept in writing and reasoned. We were in a dilemma whether we could even cut into the text of a bill submitted by the Council of Ministers and whether we could change the essence of that law. I'm not a fan of the expression principles. It has a lot of expressions for the tajprincip and can be a principle. Here are the principles of the law. The legislator, the legislator, did not give an explanation of the law's principle, which is due under the Rules of Procedure. The Constitutional and Legal Commission has given a unanimous opinion that there is a constitutional basis for this law. And according to the Rules of Procedure, she is obliged to take care of other elements in accordance with Article 36. Rules of Procedure. The Constitutional Legal Commission also examines the draft laws in terms of their compliance with the Constitution and the legal system towards and in the wake of legal processing. That's what our constitutional-legal commission never does. They only give an opinion. I think here, now the objection went to constitutional ground, including the principle of division of jurisdiction. This concession law does not contain that principle of division of jurisdiction, division of jurisdiction goes from the Constitution. It contains the principle of functional division of competence, under the jurisdiction of the Commission, which is formed as one body dealing with concessions. So, since the legislator did not respect his obligation to explain the principles of the law, I drew some of the principles that I can give you, to see that these are not the principles on which the discussion from this home was focused, where the conclusion was reached. The principles of this law could be transparency, the public, stimulation, foreign capital investments, a common functional competence, and this jurisdiction is precisely disputed because it insisted on the division of competences. The law did not provide for any division of jurisdiction or need, only in one case in the opening section was indicated if a dispute arises about how 37 will be resolved, and the division of competences stemming from the Constitution and the law has not been treated at all and cannot be talked about the principle of division of jurisdiction. Furthermore, principles could be drawn from the independence of the regulatory body, meeting public needs and functional division of competences. So all of these principles that I have stated were some basis for the commission to give the same opinion and gave the same opinion. We were in a dilemma, whether if the commission gives a new opinion there is an opportunity to consider amendments as well. As the amendment to Mr Banjac and Mr Malkić arrived on a committee day earlier, however, we accepted that it was a minor mistake to consider the amendments, but I personally gained the impression that it was a legal maneuver for daily-political purposes, because on January 15th this commission was sitting and there was no amendment. So someone remembered that it was a mistake to miss the deadline for amendments, and all that was objected to by the principles of the law was the final result of the re-amendment. We have considered them, however, even though I am in a great dilemma. Is it possible to table an amendment when returning to the commission for a re-election on principles? We think it's necessary to pass a law on concessions, and I'm farting this home and voting on the law and adopting it. The amendments have been renewed. They'll also come forward about the amendments. The amendments mainly go in the direction of challenging a large part of BiH's jurisdiction in this concession law. I don't know, at all, why would the law be passed if this was the way the amendments were adopted. There are entity laws on concessions, there are cantonal laws on concessions, there must be a Bosnian law on concessions, and we know why there must be, so if there should already be a Bosnian law on concessions, it must bear the seal of the state, you know, not the seal of the entity that always insists here that every law adopted by Bosnia bear the seal and entity. There was an objection to the principle of subordination. Who has jurisdiction and subjection is now a question from this law and amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6593	Thank you, colleague Zaćiragić. I ask the MPs to concentrate a little. Am I opening a debate? Who's answering for a word? Mr. Mijatović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6594	Madam Chairman, dear colleagues, I've volunteered to say the following. Indeed, what she was saying was a legal aspect of the case and she spoke very competently, but as a member of the Constitutional and First Commission, I absolutely agree, I asked twice as a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, since I did not come across the understanding of the entire Commission to single out my opinion in the next. Indeed, there is a great dilemma and it has never been explained to me, I must say, the role of the Constitutional and Legal Commission in this House. The fact is that this commission provides a constitutional basis, but not only the constitutional basis but also the consistency of the contents of a single legal project with the Constitution, and we often establish a constitutional basis on the Constitutional Commission, but we do not compare the content of this legal project or proposal with the Constitution of BiH and it is certain that there has been a misunderstanding of this kind because it has not been done in this case. My opinion is that the Constitutional-First Commission should always do it and if it does it in a good way, then these dilemmas wouldn't show up. In that sense, I support the presentation of my colleague, but as I say, I can't at this point confirm all that she said, but it was to be done by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, not by the Finance Commission, although I stress that my colleague, I think, is not that I think, but it appears that an extraordinary lawyer has been speaking completely legally as it should have been done. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6595	Thank you, colleague Mijatović, this is already a little self-critics won't hurt. Who else is answering for a word? The debate is under way. Mr. Mirko Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6596	Dear gentlemen, I hope that behind this pay phone we will not prophesy fate, because the prophesying of fate goes into other aspects, and what anyone thought or didn't mean, it should be left for some other debates. In any case, it's about the matter that's the subject of the law and it's supposed to be discussed that way. The law is not precise, and it needs to be absolutely clear. First in the name of the law talks about BiH concessions. It implies Bosnia and Herzegovina's powers in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, in line with the constitution. And precisely, gentlemen, the amendment that I submitted in Article 1(2) says: "This law regulates the conditions under which domestic and foreign legal persons can award concessions in sectors which are under the BiH Constitution in the exclusive jurisdiction of BiH. If there's no clear division of jurisdiction here, then I don't know where it is. And if anyone thinks we should change constitutional provisions beyond the Constitution guaranteed and established procedures, then they're wrong. Furthermore, I would not explain the amendments, but I am willing in any case that those who disagree do not agree with what is written, say what is anachronous in what is written, and what is good in what is in the text of the law. It's the only way I can accept well-meaning and profession, respecting the profession of a lawyer and anyone else's. Since such language and such arguments are not spoken in this House, then obviously gentlemen, I can choose a way to keep my mouth shut, because it is simply not difficult to conclude that the arguments here are not even important. You know well and there is no need to assume that in Article 7 too, it is clear in Article 16 that the Constitution has been violated and in Article 34, and I am asking for respect of the Constitution. Since I have a feeling that there will be a heart vote here, and not a mind, I would ask Mr. Chairman to ask each of us, by channeling this debate, for an individual explanation of why this is proposed and what are the arguments. So, for example, Amendment 1 has been completely precisely channeled that the law should only regulate matter from the BiH institutions' jurisdiction. Not to take time, I'd be very happy to talk and defend my arguments, respecting others, but on a concrete example of a specific member or part of a member, but now that I'm speaking in general, I have no intention.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6597	Thank you. Who's answering for a word? Niko. Since no one's answering for a word, the debate is over. I ask the messengers to plead. We have before us a law on the concessions of BiH in the first reading, which means that it concerns discussion and voting on the necessity and principles on which the proposal is based. 39 So, first reading of the proposal for a concession law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's being held back? Thank you. It takes an entity vote. Did he pass? We have to go to an entity vote. By entities. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Thank you. Who's from RS for? Thank you. Please report. Present 34 – for 24 – versus 2 – abstention 7. It's an entity vote. Federation of BiH for 22 – Republika Srpska 3. It's a match. Moving to the next item on the 12th agenda. Ad.12. The resolution on the regulation of the legal status of the institutions of science and culture in BiH – submiter of the motion for a resolution is colleague Sead Avdić You have received the text of the resolution. I'm opening a debate. Does the motion for a resolution want to explain? Who's answering for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6598	The Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, first of all something on the resolution, Article 121 has been made clear that the resolution can be expressed, a position on relevant political issues, social impediments and needs and establish political guidelines, which will be implemented by the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers of BiH or other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. With that in mind, I would like to remind you that, with the Constitution, Article 3 is points 1 and 2. The BiH Constitution has decidently established the authority of the BiH institution and the authority of the entity. Point 5 of the article found that BiH would assume competences in those matters in which the entity's consent is achieved. How in particular is it about things that are not in the jurisdiction of BiH institutions, and it is necessary to achieve a minimum agreement on the subject at entity level, i.e. what status will the institutions of science and culture in the former Bosnia and Herzegovina have? That is why I believe that in this direction of the RS and at the level of the Federation of BiH, they need through these consents to seek the best solutions. As far as I know in the RS some activities as in the case of resolving the status of the BiH Academy of Science and Arts, the status of the former BiH Archive has been resolved with the previous consent it was in entities. Therefore, the way to resolve this solution through this resolution is, in my view, unacceptable, since there is no foothold in the BiH Constitution, i.e. it is not a basic prerequisite, and that is the entity's consent to this, I stress the essence of this discussion. On the other hand, the justification that BiH cannot successfully develop in the community of European countries without its "institution of science and culture", cannot, I believe, come across support if it comes from the fact that BiH is a state composed of two equal entities, which will say that the institutions of science and culture at the entity level can also be able to affirm, develop, present, etc. BiH's cultural, scientific identity as a state and as a democratic state. In the end, I propose that when we talk about resolving this status, this very important issue and the proposer, I fully understand in the best sense, it means that this issue is triggered and resolved. In order to resolve the status of the institutions concerned, we need to respect the interests of entities and its institutions maximumly 40. And so once again, I ask that the Proposer take that into account, first of all, how it is regulated by the Constitution, and that entities be allowed to resolve this issue, as they have already addressed some institutions of science and culture. As far as the resolution itself is concerned, I think this resolutional bird can be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6599	Thank you, Mr. Gligorić. Mr. Avdić. The promoter has an advantage.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6600	My colleagues and colleagues, respected guests, I felt the need as well as a large number of people from BiH's space to raise the issue. The act of resolution itself is, giving political guidance and there is no further reach in terms of usurpation of any authority of the entity or, simply, in violation of the BiH Constitution. Most of these institutions are found by the signing of the Dayton Agreement and we know it well, and in this context it is necessary to encourage the resolution of the status of these institutions, which means these institutions must be offered laws on simple, from the Academy of Science and Art to simple institutions that are listed here both at home and at the House of Peoples, to define themselves for or against, while respecting the interest of entities etc. So the range of these resolutions have no intention of simply changing or usurping the authority of the entity. That's one dimension. The second dimension is that these institutions have already lasted and been found by the signing of the Dayton Agreement. And in this context, we have been obliged and obliged these past six years to propose laws on the simple establishment of these institutions or to refuse simply and that these institutions must be re-affirmed or simply shut down from the aspect of functioning at BiH level. Now we have the irregular and unresolved status of these institutions. In this context, I think that these policy guidelines that have been given here simply do not have any further reach in the sense that they are only up-to-date and incentivising and that they are simply encouraging the Council of Ministers to propose laws on the status of these institutions which have been found by signing the Dayton Agreement. So, the range is up to now, and to be discussed by me about Article 3 and Article 5 of this resolution which can be for some particulars, etc. They are not essential to the resolution. And in that sense, I don't think it should be identified by violating the BiH Constitution. The objective Council of Europe, the Council of Europe, will also point to the 91 conditions that we have signed that we will begin to meet in the post-op, will warn that some of these institutions, and I would say all of these that I have listed here are essential for the functioning of a state and in this context there will be certain that there will be a need for harmonisation, or verification of your institutions. So, I plead that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, on a proposal from the Council of Ministers, has been determined through legal projects for or against these institutions and nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6601	Thank you. Mr. Kulenović Salih.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6602	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Avdić has, on occasion, said almost the essence of what I was going to say about this agenda point. I am a long time ago as a member of Parliament... to indeed resolve the status of these institutions at the level of BiH. I also respect the entity requirements, respecting the Constitution, but indeed, all of these houses, i.e. institutions in the field of culture and science, which 41 are listed in the resolution, have existed as institutions of republican importance. Unfortunately, their status has not been resolved so far. It is indeed all the institutions they have collected, which they have preserved and presented, not only to our public but also to the world of the entire cultural and historical heritage, not only of the BiH state, but also of this part of Southeast Europe. So I don't think we should have any dilemma about this resolution. I understood it as something that would be as a catalyst that would speed up the process with the Council of Ministers and competent for the adoption of appropriate legal projects to regulate this issue. Also, I think that this resolution should be open and possibly more open to some entities that entities believe should be houses at the state level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6603	Thank you, Mr. Kulenović. Who's answering for a word? Niko. I find the debate is over. According to the Rules of Procedure, we should say by voting on the resolution. The vote is on the proposed resolution, which is a resolution on the regulation of the legal status of the institutions of science and culture of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's for the proposed resolution? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's being held back? Thank you. It takes an entity vote. Who's in favour of the RS? Thank you. Who's in favour of the Federation of BiH MPs? Thank you. Please report. Vote 32 – for 23 – v 8 – abstention 1 MP. By entities. Federation of BiH for 20-RS for 3. It's a match. A colleague as a commission. Next point, that's 13. Ad.13. A report on the audit carried out for the year 2000 for the State Grnaiary Service Ministry of the Institutions, the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, the Ministry of European Integration, the Constitutional Court and the Regulatory Agency for Telecommunications, you have received a report on the audit of those state institutions for 2000. You also received a report from the Finance Commission and the budget on the review of this audit report. A representative of the Audit Office was invited to attend the session. Is he here? Okay, thank you. Gentlemen, does the rapporteur in front of the Finance Commission want to speak? Here you go, Mrs. Zaćiragić. Will you be on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6604	On behalf of the Commission, I'll just turn around for a little while. I won't take up much of your time. This is the second time the Finance and Budget Commission has considered the BiH Institutions Audit Office' report. You've heard the subject of the present examination from the chairman. The Commission sought to look at all aspects of the report through the accepted working methods. The goal of this work is to point to a failure and thus improve the work of BiH institutions. There should be an understanding of the difficult circumstances in which the institutions examined have worked, but also of the fact that mistakes have been made that need to be removed. In this regard, the Commission was not concerned with the question of responsibility, because it is not within the scope of 42 of its work. The report was drawn up for each surveyed ministry, institutions in particular and eventually made proposals for overcoming shortcomings. The shortcomings can be described as: infringement of the legal procedure in the procurement of fixed funds, error in the budget management system, whether they are over-planned budgets in the total amount, or that they are overcoming certain assets in the budget, shortcomings in accounting management and deficiencies in the internal control system. The Commission has also made recommendations in its reports to address shortcomings. I must conclude that there is some activity in this direction, it is seen from the adopted annual report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2001, and then also points out the draft law on the implementation of the BiH institutions' 2002 budget and the proposed budget. This House of Representatives and the Commission for Finance and the Budget should be pursued in future, in order to remove all shortcomings. It's also the ultimate goal of all these activities. I would also ask this House of Representatives to support the Audit Office in the future, because without Parliament's support, the Audit Office will not preserve its independence, whether materially or otherwise. I know that the Office of Audit works in very unconditional business premises and that makes it difficult for them to work and puts them in a situation perhaps not to make some mistakes about the material and the rest. I would suggest that Parliament take into account in the future, that the issue of accommodation of the Office for Auditing be resolved and that the Treasury Act be applied, under which the Ministry of Treasury cannot reduce funds under any audit office, if Parliament has approved the funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6605	Thank you, colleague Zaćiragić. Indeed, the Commission's work deserves to be commended for its great effort, but you are on behalf of the Commission a rapporteur, on behalf of the Commission as a whole, so I am opening up a rush. Are any of the MPs answering for a word? Mr. Kovačević.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6606	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be very brief. First of all, we're a little late with these reports, because you can see that the audit reports are 2000 years old, and before us, we're looking for audit reports for 2001. We are now analyzing these reports for those ministerial councils and ministers who have long gone from these ranks, instead of analyzing the work of current ministries, ministers, etc. But it had to go with something. Therefore, since the audit institute has not been established so far, it is good that an audit has been carried out for 2000 years, but it also calls for certain measures to be taken by a particular institution from prosecutors, etc. They're supposed to be doing their part of the job on those reports now, not keeping all your reports dead letter on paper. In this context, we as Parliament are giving full support to the Institute of Audit and we believe that this audit office needs to carry out the review of the report as soon as possible for 2001, and I believe that the situation will thus far be carried out, that the audit has been carried out before in the business, in the conduct of the vaults and in the conduct of reports by the management of certain agencies which have not previously been led and the originality should insist on carrying out these reports. The Commission of Parliament that has been working, it has actually implemented procedures according to some of the standards implemented in other countries based on these experiences and be assured that both the Office for Audit and the Commission have done so knowingly, with good reason, but if 43 measures are put in place in the institutions of the BiH system continue to take place, then it will be no good, it would be a waste of work, and in order to raise responsibility for those committed, for financial violations, for the work to be done in the budgets in many countries, these are also crimes that are the most severely punished. In us, we ignore it, you know those cases, here you have, and in today's paper 25 cases are unsolved by individual embassies, ministries, etc. in a variety of budget crusaders. I alone consider it necessary to make one binding conclusion that BiH's institutions mean prosecutors in internal affairs, etc. to make such things no longer happen in the future, it's all in the fight against anti-corruption, etc. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6607	Thank you, Mr. Kovačević. Any other MPs answer for word? Niko. I'm finishing the debate. Please state, we need to make a statement on the reports carried out in the audit and on our commission's proposal report. I'm putting it to a vote. Who's in? Does Mr. Kovačević vote? Thank you. Who's against it? Niko. Who's being held back? Niko. At present 30 votes for 30. I find that the audit report and the Commission's report have been adopted. Allow me, gentlemen, to express my gratitude to our commission that has put forth a great effort, a great effort to function as well as other financial committees in other countries' parliaments. Thank you. Ad.14. Giving consent - there are three points - three parts we had that change. Meanwhile, a request from the BiH presidency has arrived for the House to declare its accession statement, the acceptance of the Statute of the World of Europe Here we have three points. (a) Giving consent to BiH's accession and a statement relating to Europe's status will only remind you briefly. Giving consent to BiH's accession and a statement concerning Europe's status. I'll just remind you briefly what it says in the BiH presidency's memo. Each Member State invited will become a member when an application for access to this Statute is lodged with the Secretary-General on its behalf. BiH needs to deliver to the secretary-general a formal legal act on BiH's accession to the Council of Europe statute, replacing the signature and ratification and expressing the party's intention to join. I remind you gentlemen of Article 3. The statute reads: "Every member of the Council of Europe recognises the principle of rule of law and the principle according to which every person under its jurisdiction must enjoy human rights and fundamental freedoms." Article 4 "Every so-called state will become a member when a document on accession to this council is passed on its behalf to the Secretary-General." It is the Statute of the Council of Europe, which was adopted in London on 5 May 1949 and which accepts all the countries that are members of the Council of Europe. Gentlemen, who's answering for the word? Niko. The debate is over. 44 I implore the messengers to plead. Who's in? Thank you. Does Mr. Banjac vote yes? Thank you. Who's against it? Mr. Šarganović is against it? Thank you. Who's being held back? Please report. 31 voted in favour of 31 MPs. I agree that the House of Representatives accepted a statement, or agreed to the accession of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Statute of the Council of Europe. This is a big step for BiH and for this home, and it is our great pleasure that the first home did it, not the House of Peoples. This will allow Mr. Belkić to sign a statement in Strasbourg. The next item is, b) Giving consent to the ratification of the free trade agreement between BiH and the federal government, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, is gospodin Mijatović, I think it is a fair question. Mr. Mijatović may be a technical failure and I think he is, but he's not on our side, because the agreement has a name exactly. A free trade agreement between BiH and the federal government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. I would, of course, appreciate your observation. I think it's in place, but it's the way it is, that's the deal. Here we received a letter from Minister Azra Hadžiahmetović, insisting that the agreement be agreed by the minister, Deputy Civilian Affairs Minister Blagojević. Who's answering for a word? Niko. I'm putting it to a vote. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Please tell me what's going on. 31 MPs present – 31 votes in favour. I agree that an agreement has been given to ratify the Free Trade Agreement between BiH and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. c) Giving consent to the protocol on the establishment and functioning of cultural centres between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey. Mr. Tošić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6608	There were a few misunderstandings at the beginning and it looks like it's on an extended college today. I conveyed what my colleague Bilbija, who is officially absent today, asked me to pass this agreement on to the Council of Ministers at the last session, because it was an agreement signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina prior to the signing of Dejton with the Turkish government. For these reasons, it was only required procedurally to confirm or not confirm the Council of Ministers, and for that reason I intervened today and at the Expansive College, and I don't think that this should have been on the agenda today, because no one suggested it...
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6609	We have a problem here. The problem is that this has already been done once and has been asked to go through the Council of Ministers, since the agreement was signed before Dejton. So it's not the content agreement I think it's just a date. Because cultural co-operation cannot be disputed, but it is a date. Here we have a proposal from the pedsjedništvo, 45 we have, if there's a danger or a possibility of not going through, then maybe we should take it off to ask the Council of Ministers not to block the matter. I ask you to do so and ask that the Council of Ministers prepare for the next session. I msiliti it's better if we don't nail down on an agreement that's a matter of cultural co-operation. Mr. Avdić. It wasn't the Council of Ministers who confirmed it. It was the Bureau.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6610	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and fellow Members, look at the last page of this text of the Agreement, Article 16 signed for the Council of Ministers by Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, chairman of the Council of Ministers at the time and on the other hand, the government of the Republic of Turkey, President Demirel. Do you need another comment and what else the Council of Ministers needs to ask for? They've proposed a document that needs ratification and nothing else. There's a date here.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6611	Mr. Šarganović and Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6612	I think it's just today that the construction of a collapsed bridge in Mostar is on its way. The investment weighs a few million dollars. This is done in a significant amount of the Republic of Turkey. I wonder if everything that is good for BiH, regardless of the date, regardless of when it was. Is that, if it's good for the citizens of BiH, who cares. That's what I want to know. There is no Council of Ministers here, it seems someone is watching when there is a Council of Ministers, when it is not and then to come out to say it right now, no matter how much damage every citizen of this country, the whole of BiH, and the rest of us sitting here. I really don't think this was necessary for my friend the president of the Club of Representatives of one of the stronger parties to say at this little one... shut up and say he fell he said he stuck his behar. You don't have to do that.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6613	Mirko Banjac. Well, you've reached out to Mr. Banjac. Well, Mr. Mijatović, if I've seen correctly. I don't know if you're having trouble with the SDS, I have a long time ago.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6614	Please, gentlemen, I think I'm happy when anyone in this area is establishing cultural or cultural relations, they're one, they're the other, but, please, there's one procedural problem here and let us sort it out as people. This is '94. A year, a war year. You know then any appetites, appetites of one or the other warring parties in terms of BiH's status then and the rest. I can never accept that then BiH was this BiH now. This now BiH is created in Dayton by the will of international entities and by the will of all representatives of the people in BiH. Of course, the compromise was present, and thank Bog it did. So, as a man and an MP, I don't have any reservations about the agreement and its contents, but as gentlemen, if a similar agreement arises tomorrow from the other side of BiH that is not identical to today. Today's BiH was created in Dayton, which is why I have no objection, so let this parliament be the signator of the agreement with the Republic of Turkey if it considers it to be a road and let it formally verify the current council of ministers' assembly. 46 If you think anyone here has anything against it, don't do it like that, but please, let us respect that neither international problems nor BiH's status are solved as it is today and do not say that it is. For these reasons, I think that no one here, of course, has a single word of restraint for the agreement and its contents, but the time, then Zlatko Lagumdžija was another president of another body and I keep saying that it was Zlatko Lagumdžija, the real Zlatko who today is the other Zlatko, and maybe it's the same Zlatko. I don't know which one it is, but I'd like it to be verified today. I would like it to be verified by gentlemen at the current Council of Ministers of BiH, at least formally, because it is essentially not necessary, and then Parliament to give its consent to the verification as Parliament or to Parliament to take the obligation and sign. If so...
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6615	Thank you, Mr. Banjac. Mr. Mijatović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6616	Madam Chairman, dear colleagues, I really have a very good intention. I'm not really against content or any agreement with anyone with anything. Me for a simple reason, I'm an example. voted for this on the agenda. So some people misread it. If we're human, it's easy to clear all misunderstandings. It's a simple mistake. It's really in the process. I wouldn't want to discuss anything further. We got this by fax as a agenda and it wasn't in the agenda and it turns out now someone's putting it from heaven into the agenda and it's unnecessary. It's unnecessary not to have a misunderstanding. I say in advance that I will vote in favour of this agreement, and here's just let it be played out by procedure to get it as human beings. I have absolutely nothing against the content of this agreement and I'm glad it's with the Republic of Turkey. I'm telling the truth. Just make sure it's under procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6617	Mr. Abdurahman Malkić, then Mr. Borić Adem.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6618	My fellow MPs, I have the agenda I got, also by fax. It clearly writes here giving consent to ratification of the Protocol establishing and functioning cultural centres between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey. It doesn't say it was signed in '94. and then it would probably be between the Government of the Republic of BiH. He's writing the Council of Ministers. How he didn't sign it, Zlatko. I don't see the need to open the discussion now.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6619	Adem called before for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6620	I'd like in front of the club. Let's get out of this a little awkward situation. So in front of the club, I'd like to support the withdrawal of this paper. We in this House today have not been able to resolve bigger issues, so one cultural co-operation, even if it is with Turkey, can wait a little.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6621	Thank you, Mr. Borić. Mr. Sead Avdić. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6622	I can't help but feel that we haven't read the preamble of the agreement in part. This is the preamble of the agreement. So he's not a member of the agreement. I'm reading the preamble of the agreement what's controversial. He says, taking into account provisions, and in particular by referring to Article 12. A protocol once signed, a Protocol on Cultural Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of BiH, signed in Ankara on 7 February '94. A year. So you're referring to a part of that agreement. So it has absolutely nothing to do with this agreement and the text of an agreement with that protocol signed in the war of '94. years of people and absolutely no need for this to be here preamble. It's not necessary. zad need to get him out of there so we can agree with the Council of Ministers, etc. So it's not necessarily this intervention. It is not an agreement signed then and then, but an agreement was signed during Lagumdžija's current term as the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the mandate of the Council of Ministers and is piling on a protocol once signed. Yes, it is. It says quite clearly.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6623	Is that a replica, Mr. Tošić? Here's the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6624	Is this the signature of Mr. Lagumdžija or Izetbegović? When and where?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6625	The signatures are similar, no dilemma.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6626	Is this Izetbegovic's signature?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6627	Yes, it is. Izetbegović cannot sign for the Council of Ministers. That's not true. There was no Council of Ministers during the war, my men what is wrong with you. So it can't be Izetbegovic's signature. It can't be. This is the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers of the institution was not during the '94 war. A year.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6628	Please, gentlemen, we have come to a situation where, indeed, it is necessary, I ask you, this is a very serious cultural sarge between the two countries. Go ahead, Mr. Brk.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6629	You can't hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6630	He couldn't for the Council of Ministers. Please, I'm begging you a minute. It's here, it's here, to untangle things, there's no need. Obviously there's a misunderstanding here about the signatories. Obviously, where he writes for the Council of Ministers of BiH, Mr. Brka if we can trust him to know exactly what he thinks is Mr. Izetbegović's signature. On the other hand, for the Government of the Republic of Turkey, I think it was the signature of Demirel, and I think it was the President of Turkey. 48 Well, it doesn't matter. The thing is, it's very simple for us to take this off the agenda today. This is a serious question and that we simply ask the Council of Ministers for full information. Please, we have decided that there is obviously a misunderstanding, because this is not the signature of Mr Lagumdžija and Mr Lagumdžija and he was not the chairman of the Council of Ministers in '99. A year. So, '99. The council of the Minsitarians. Please, we're taking off the agenda and we're asking that the Council of Ministers give full information on who's the signator when and I'm asking the House to plead. Who's in favour of, asking for information from the Council of Ministers? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Let me make another point. There are no members of the Council of Ministers here and we cannot get any information that any of the Foreign Ministry is present or from the Bureau we might get information. Thank you very much, let's move on. The next item of the agenda is Ad.15. The establishment of a competent commission to discuss the BiH News Agency bill "BH PRESS" is the first case that the College of the House of Representatives could not agree on who the committee responsible is. There are different opinions. There, it happened after a year and four months that the College has to address the House, it's not so bad after all this time. What's the matter? It is the proposal for a law on the BiH News Agency "BH Press" proposed at the House of Representatives, Mr. Sead Avdić. At the same time, a proposal was made in the House of Peoples by delegates Mr Ibrahim Spahić. What's the difference? The difference is that we're in one session if I say something wrong, I'm asking you to start me off. Discussing this has led to different attitudes. Mr. Sead Avdić, noted that in his opinion, the commission for human rights is responsible. I also considered today an act, as Mr. Avdić remained in his opinion, I believe it is the Constitutional-First Commission, and, if I remember correctly, Mr. Ljubić felt it was the Constitutional-First Commission. Mr. Ljubić is not here, and our secretary, Mrs. Branka Todorović, who, according to our official duty, prepares it for us, and on each unit of the College, tells us her expert opinion which is the committee responsible, she also thought it was the Constitutional-First Commission. We tried to get along a few times. We didn't make it. There's no need to convince ourselves of that. Of course, everyone can make their arguments. It is necessary for the House to identify which committee is responsible. I don't think that question is that big and so significant, because it's just the beginning of the commission phase. And let me say that I don't consider this a political but formal first question, and I pray that no political connotation is given, but that, in my opinion, it is considered purely first. You're here to help us if we're wrong. I can explain that much later. Here you go, Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6631	I apologize for often going out for a pay phone and just going back to my previous conclusion. I think it is extremely unserious that we have received such an agreement today, and regardless of the conclusion of the House of Representatives at home, I will personally investigate which way this agreement has come, which was absolutely not capable of being considered at the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, and in this context my trust with the promoters has been uniquely played out. 49 Secondly, I agree with my colleague Mirjanić. It's a purely legal thing. The insistence on why I insisted that it be the Commission for Human Rights and Immigrants, Refugees and Asylum, because objectively and in an agreement generated in the OHR's office, the recent constitutional changes are clearly and transparent that information is a fundamental human right and that it is vital national interest. Which means, following this and the turn of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives and the follow-up of the European Charter on Human First and Fundamental Freedoms, I consider that information is objectively one of the elements and fundamental human rights of peoples and peoples, and in this context it is necessary, and I have pointed out and defended this position that the Commission responsible for human beings, refugees, immigration and asylum. Without any connotations, it may be the Constitutional and Legal Commission, but here I think, I agree that this is a purely formal first question, with argument and one and the other, so let the House plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6632	Thank you, I would only like to say my argument as well as my colleague Avdić in one sentence and nothing more, so I will go out for a pay phone. My argument is based on Article 36(2), which is a member relating to the Constitutional and Legal Commission, where it writes: the Commission is considering issues relating to: then finally, and other issues from the jurisdiction of the House which are not in the jurisdiction of other committees. I believe this is not about the jurisdiction of other committees and that for this reason it is within the jurisdiction of the Constitutional First Commission, but it is not a problem, let the House plead, it is no... Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Tošić. I apologize if I haven't seen anyone. My apologies, Bahrija Osmanović. I didn't see it because I was at my colleague Osmanović's pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6633	Gentlemen, I expected a bit sharper, sharper comment from Mr. Avdić and the apology of Mr. Šarganović because, this morning, I just pointed out this. We've been off the agenda, just not to embarrass ourselves here about this, because we have to honor every member of our fellow MP who's pointed out something before. I mentioned today that it was a colleague of Bilbi, and now we saw that what we discussed was absolutely not against. That we are not misunderstood by the Republic of Turkey, but that they are not so easily glued to labels. The second thing is not clear to me, that we can't understand this age, that we can't do anything here without consensus and perseverance, that I don't tell the representatives of the Alliance to try and at a small door what isn't agreed on by the College or on an extended college here, counting on the media and the public, the representatives of the international community and the OHR that, somehow, it's going to pass, that with some kind of vote, whether it's going to be 9-10 or not. I don't know why our goal is or why we're going that way. Once again, here's proof of this is that at the College we couldn't agree on a banal matter that the commission is in charge at this point and how to further prepare material for the Assembly. In that direction, I appeal once again, let us respect the consensus, because without consensus in BiH there is no progress. Any other variant, absolutely sometimes can pass, but it will not bring what we want, and we want the prosperity of BiH, but with respect for both the citizens and the Council of Nations. And in that direction, my appeal at the end of today's session, let's let's let what we're agreeing on at the College, on an extended college to agree here and not harass each other here. Thank you. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6634	Thank you. Replica Mr. Šarganović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6635	I don't think Ambassador Tošić had any reason to think that I should apologize because I didn't say anything ugly to him. But I think he just confirmed what I said, which is that it's in everyone's best interest for this agreement to be signed. I realized to my fellow MP, that they, too, would vote in favour of this agreement. From that point on, I didn't see any reason to postpone, and now I'm saying I didn't see it, we could have paroled it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6636	No, no parole, Mr. Šarganović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6637	As for the intention, as far as the final intentions are concerned, I believe that after his second exit, the intention was the same as mine, which is that the contract should be signed unconditionally. I think there is no need for any other interpretation, and I am very glad that it is such a mood from a respected colleague, Tošić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6638	Dear colleague Bahrija Osmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6639	Dear Chairman, I'd have to know first which part of the agenda we're at. I think we are on the last one, and this is about the proposal for a law on the News Agency, offered by Mr. Sead Avdić. You're before me now, we've concluded that agenda item on which speech was now, Mr. Šarganović, and I don't know who else. In truth, I am surprised that for the first time in so many months, the Kolegijum could not achieve the agreement that the commission is competent to resolve this bill. In truth, I'm surprised you couldn't achieve consent. I see it's the Human Rights Commission, which doesn't mean, and in truth, I'm asking, if you can't entrust this job to this Human Rights Commission, can two commissions handle it? How about that by the Constitution? Can the secretary tell us that? Just one commission. I am behind the proposal proposed by Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6640	Thank you very much for your support. Mr. Mijatović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6641	In my opinion, this problem can be approached in a completely different way and found the first solution. I truly appreciate the efforts of every MP who individually proposes a legal project. It allows both our... and our rules of procedure. However, personally regarding this area from which the law was offered. It's an extremely complex area and one of these concepts is that it's an area of communication and it's an extremely wide area. My colleagues from the Constitutional Commission remember that 51 of us are having a similar discussion that I'm not going to do here again. It's an area of... so through letters, mail, telecoms, maritime traffic, traffic, etc. This is undoubtedly one of the most significant areas that BiH would have to cover some kind of roof law. In this sense they were taken, we now, unfortunately, have the next phenomenon that we have a large number of legislative projects of this kind from the individual MPs in the parliamentary procedure. And believe me, I would like to point out, on one hand, that it is a sign that really from competent institutions, I do not dispute the competence of MPs on this issue. But look at the much stronger weight that would have had to be suggested by the Council of Ministers or this because it requires a broader view of this House. A team, for example. What I said if it were represented next, I don't think there'd be a problem. As far as I know, an independent telecommunications agency has been formed at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Don't take my word for it, I don't know how many of those commissions they have and believe that these modern approaches and you'll see we'll be able to stay on the occasion, here's another legal project we've passed here a law on transposition...where is the state regulatory commission for the transmission of electricity, etc. That's Bosnia and Herzegovina's needs. And look, whether you or not this law is whether or not the most ideal one will have to get the consent of an independent state commission that guarantees independence, etc. etc. Now, see if that was suggested by the Council of Ministers he'd know it, he'd have to know and get consent, etc. And then there wouldn't be any problem getting into parliamentary procedure. I don't think I'm going out any longer to point out some kind of work where we wouldn't come into these drastic opposites and spend time, etc. I'm not going to criticise that the Council of Ministers turns out, but someone has to if we want to sort things out, take care of it, and respect some kind of procedure that isn't strictly prescribed. But if you disrespect her and don't know her, you'll never get to a quality solution. And here I am specifically saying Parliament has the right to decide which committee it is, but I, as a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, say that it was at least fair to come to the Constitutional Commission, and that it, on behalf of Parliament, proposes to Parliament justly and which commission if it is not the Constitutional and Legal Commission. But I'm not going to argue that way and that someone's replicating me that it couldn't come directly to Parliament, but you can see how this debate is challenging and how we're going to find a solution. I don't think these are roads and ways, and I'd like to follow the right ones that will help us come up with some quality solutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6642	Okay. Who else is answering for a word? Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6643	Ladies and gentlemen, it's no problem that the College couldn't agree. It could be in the future. We as Parliament need to make a statement about this and I suggest that after my discussion, we immediately declare ourselves. I consider it an MP that the Constitutional and Legal Commission is responsible for this issue, because in its jurisdiction under d. says - it controls a public debate on amendments to the BiH Constitution or draft laws and informs. Under d. – discusses proposals for laws that home etc. Without the difference the law is always the Constitutional and Legal Commission at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina should give its opinion. I mean, that's a fact, and at the same time this proposal of the same law on the news agency needs to be made known. Otherwise, all social areas of life are regulated by the Constitution for a little while, and later the law is being developed. In this case, at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have 10 prescribed powers, and when we talk about human rights, it is a segment in every law, including the law on the news agency. 52 My opinion, therefore, is as an MP, and I will make it so clear that it is the jurisdiction of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, not the Commission for Human Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6644	Thank you, Mr. Gligorić. Is anyone else answering for word? If we don't go to the polls. I will since, allow me, I will first put on a vote proposal that it is a Constitutional and Legal Commission for two reasons. Which is why, unfortunately, one colleague Avdić, as he would say, remained, please, abstained, but at the moment we pleaded was so. If you don't mind, I'd put it that way and let the House plead. I don't mean that. I don't see that at all. It's an important question. It's a competent commission. Do you agree that's how we go to the vote? Here you go, Mr. Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6645	I raised my hand, you didn't see it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6646	I thought the debate was over.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6647	I'm making amends on your behalf for not seeing me.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6648	Don't be mad. I'm not mad at you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6649	I'm not mad at you. Dear gentlemen, since I am here today, reading Article 5 of the news agency's activity and seeing what it will do, given that it is a matter of timely transfer of information, providing information or gathering information, which is a kind of communication, both with people and politicians, and with others. I believe, and on the basis of Article 41 d., that this is in the obligation of the Commission to traffic and communications where it is said to - establish and operate joint and international communications. What don't you agree? I think it is, however, about the transfer of information, the collection of information, the placement of information, and that it is about the Commission's obligation to communicate.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6650	Thank you. We didn't respect your opinion. If we thought like you, there wouldn't be a dispute. This is still a news agency. Here you go, Mr. Banjac. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6651	Well, I don't think that everything that's been said is either excessive or incorrect. The area of information falls within the area of human rights, falls within the area of communication and has its legal basis. In one word, it is an area that would be between these committees and I have a compromise solution, and Parliament has the right to form a committee of these three committees, representatives of these three committees, and to empower it for this law and thus to go beyond the vote, to go over the vote, and thus to come to a smart solution, and this Parliament would not be in a dilemma. And I have, therefore, a proposal since the commissions have nine members each to give three of their representatives and to get a new composition of nine members and solve this problem without any problems. I mean, look, let's not say it's not an area of human rights, it is. Let's not say it's not communication, it is, and we can't say it has no legal basis for both and third. So let us give as soon as possible that each commission proposes by its three members and choose. It's an ad hoc commission that has a solution, an ad hoc commission can work it out and get rid of it that way and get over it. I guarantee you this is an area of both human rights and communication and legal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6652	This could be the solution if we're allowed by the Rules of Procedure. You got it. I think that would be a good solution to avoid a vote here. You know which commission is in charge. It's just the beginning of the commission phase. You may, Mr. Banjac, be my guest. Just a moment, please. Just for a little while.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6653	Please press these above me against me. I'm kidding. Please, I think it's very important that this information law, you know what information we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is not a very bad thing to think hard and to come up with a good solution and why to run away from it. It's not you, I'm sure no one in any entity is satisfied with what's going on in the field of information. Niko one's satisfied.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6654	Please, Mr Banjac's proposal is based on Article 26(2). You know what, Mr. Banjac? I'm a professor, so I'm looking at you as a student, but you take that as a compliment for years. It's a joke on the side. I think we can go that way, Article 26, point 2. The House may, in its conclusion, establish temporary, or investigative committees on the proposal of MPs or clubs, but in order not to waste time, can we now see what three members of each committee are and immediately form that commission. Here you go, Mr. Brk. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6655	I'm really sorry to take the time, but sometimes I get the impression that we're just complicated, complicated. What we need. Give me one commission, it doesn't matter which one of these three. I hope any one of you will do it in a good way. Don't, don't worry, we need to call the committees now so the commissions can set up three members.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6656	We'll figure it out now.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6657	Don't do that, set up a commission, put it to a vote. I have no doubt that any commission will do so in quality.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6658	Now let's make a commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6659	We're just making it complicated.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6660	We won't, Mr. Brk. Watch out. We have, so we don't waste time, we can determine. You took my friend Šarganović's proposal from my mouth. We can say since the first three are presidents and two deputies. From these three commissions to president and two deputies, that's nine. And it's a good composition and I don't think it's controversial. The presidents of these three commissions and their deputies. It doesn't matter what names. It's known by the functions of who they are. Is he all right? Please. And you nine choose the chairman and vice-president. I'm putting a motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you, please, to the service of who is restrained? No matter the team, this is Parliament. Let the team go, this is the state parliament. This is, the state institution works regardless of the game. St. 31, for 29, v. 1, abstention 1. I konstatuj that a proposal has been adopted. I don't need to say it again. You don't need an entity vote. Please, the proposal is next, since several MPs have made various variations, and most of all, the independent MP Mr. Banjac contributed, then it's like this. The Commission, consisting of 3+3+3 from these three committees, constitutional and legal, for human rights and for traffic and communication, with the presidents and vice-presidents. That's the composition of the commission. So you know exactly what kind of people they are. What are we gonna read the names? They know who these people are, who are the deputies and the chairman, and that's how we solved the issue in accordance with Article 26. Rules of Procedure. 55 The last item of the agenda is Ad.16. The resolution on the condemnation of terrorism in the Middle East and the Balkans has been filed by four lawmakers. The motions for the resolution are Mr Mehtić Halil, Begović Muhamed, Momir Tošić and Mirko Banjac. I'm opening a debate. Whether the motionors of the resolution want to address us. There's no need. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? We need to conduct the procedure. Who's answering for a word? Wait. You're picking up. Mr. Šarganović, please turn off the cell phone that's ringing. Here you go, Mr. Šarganović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6661	I would just like to help in a meaningful and texting part, because there are errors. So for example, Article 1. – We are taught the injuries of our peoples and citizens in their recent past we are deeply shaken by the latest events in the Middle East and the Balkans. After the Middle East, there should also be past events in the Balkans in the near past, because at the beginning of the sentence it stands in the recent past. There's a point. After that point goes a sentence that ultimately makes no sense if you don't insert the following – daily reports, I'm just talking about spelling, grammatical and lecturing errors that have been subdued due to the speed most likely. The second sentence begins with a capital letter – daily reports on dozens of killed civilians among whom a significant number of children and women as a civilized and peaceful part of the world are being raised, should be said behind the score forced this parliament to raise our voice. Because there's no point behind the decimal we're raising, etc. Article 2 Starting with the fact that problems in these areas, this Article 2 immediately cancels that Article 1 should be said – the problems in the mentioned spaces in Article 1 have been going on for decades. Article 4 Achievements, not only Western democracies, but world democracies. I'd add Article 5, but I see you're in a hurry to the game, so you wouldn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6662	Mr. Šarganović, I do not allow it to be mentioned that a session of the state parliament will be interrupted for the match. I beg you, such a variant is out of the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6663	I apologize if you misunderstood me. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6664	No, the game's out there, this is the state parliament. We're dealing with state affairs, and if we're supposed to be working tonight by 12.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6665	Okay. Then I suggest Article 5. In line with the adopted programme and measures to combat terrorism that this parliament has already adopted, and based on the Council of Ministers' proposal, more active involvement of all state authorities in the fight against terrorism is required.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6666	Thank you. Mr. Šarganović. Sit down. I have a question for you. I ask the messengers to follow. I'll read Article 121 concerning the resolution to make it clear. Article 121(1) - The House can express its position on relevant political issues, social problems and needs and establish political guidelines to be implemented by the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers of BiH or other institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Article 2 - any MP may submit a motion for a resolution and a motion for a resolution will be discussed at the House session unless the House decides it is necessary to consider the commission first. Now what's important. Article 22(1) Proposer, etc. The amendment to the proposed resolutions shall be submitted in writing at any time of the sitting. If these are your amendments, please choose to submit them in writing. Because I really can't write that. Well, thank you, Mr. Šarganović. I can't handle Šarganović here. I'm really sorry. Why don't you write to Mr. Šarganović? This is corrected by a pen on the text of the motion for a resolution. I'm really sorry. Who's answering for a word? Here you go, gentlemen. Mr. Banjac. Here you go. I'm the only one asking you to keep an eye on 20 minutes of four proposings for five minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6667	80 minutes each individual.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6668	But it's a joint resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6669	But we each signed it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6670	It says, please. I beg you, Mr. Banjac. The motion for a resolution will take up to 20 minutes. Proposer. And here's the collective proposer. Here you go. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6671	Then they have to stand around and we all will.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6672	If that's what you want, it's allowed.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6673	Please, gentlemen. I don't see the reason why we're really here right now supplementing the text in a way that doesn't change the content if there's lecturers here, and we have them thank God, it seems like the three of us think we need a lecturer's intervention, then let them intervene. Finally, any document adopted by this parliament should receive lecturing. I'd be more inclined to the facts if someone had and wouldn't be inclined to do it this way. If there is any substantive objection which fundamentally changes a member of the resolution, then he or she shall apply an amendment to such a member in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If that's not it, then we can adopt, if it doesn't change the essence, we can adopt this so we don't really waste time. We can talk about whether this is enough or need more. And I agree with those who have a specific amendment that still complements or throws out a certain text and inserts a new text. Oh, don't let us really waste time here on some content loops and objections. Let the lecturers handle it, so they're paid and I don't see any reason. As far as I'm concerned, the content is quite clear. We're allowing a lecturer's processing, and everything's fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6674	Thank you. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6675	Dear chairman, fellow MPs, few guests, media representatives. Respecting the real intention and the good wishes of the promoter, I was in a dilemma whether to go out, but I must express my serious reserve according to the content of the motion for a resolution, because the proposal does not, above all, correspond to the character of the resolutions that are provided for by our own rules of procedure and does not correspond, I am sorry to have to say this to the character of this home. Two things only. In the Rules of Procedure, the Institute of Resolution defines this House of Representatives as the most legislative body on a proposal by Members or several MPs to commit the Presidency, the Council of Ministers or some other body to something and pleading for something to commit to something. In the proposal for this resolution, it was lagging behind. On the other hand, the content itself lacked the definition of one to which the resolution should be determined or determined. I suppose that the promoters had in mind, say, the Presidency and perhaps the Council of Ministers and esteeming the circumstances in which we are located, it would be logical for us to refer through them as the highest legislative and legislative body of this country to some kind of request or recommendation to the Security Council or the Security Council. I don't see what else would be the Council of Europe's assembly or some quite certain detachment. This, however, is the Assembly, and I highly appreciate the noble initiatives and motives of the promoters. I am very pleased that more MPs have at the same time made proposals for the 58 resolution and that they have agreed. However, I did have to express my reserve according to the content of the proposal itself, and I believe that this content simply does not correspond to the character of the resolutions that can be made at this home. I'm sorry to say this, but of course I am very aware that such resolutions carry ahead and some kind of risk that if a person disagrees with the content it turns out to be against not the resolution, but what the resolution condemns. However, I'm afraid that this content of the resolution is really not an appropriate level for our home. Let me apologize to the composers, with all due respect to their intentions, but to say that we are for the condemnation of terrorism, I don't know who in the world can say that it's not for the condemnation of terrorism. And I believe that this text should be changed from the ground up and adapted to a form that provides for a job-determining resolution in the Rules of Procedure of our House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6676	Thank you, Mr. Neimarlija. Have some more, please. Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6677	In the same context as Professor Neimarlija's noble initiatives and motives are absolutely not controversial and it is necessary to react this representative home to the latest events, but above all with an initial reference to these events in the Middle East. And that was the motive and the proponents of the two who proposed this resolution. Mr. Banjac has quite rightly reacted with the strengthened actions of terrorist organisations today in the world and in this context the text is quite acceptable, but we have drawn up two resolutions a simple sum of two resolutions does not make up one whole. And there is a little problem with the aspect of consistency of text and statements that this House of Representatives would adopt, or resolution. Here...I read Article 1 is said – a resolution on the condemnation of terrorism in the Middle East and the Balkans. And it adds to the Balkans. And it says so -- taught by the deaths of our peoples and citizens in their recent past, we are deeply shaken by the latest developments in the Middle East and the Balkans. What Balkans? What's the latest? It is read further – daily reports that speak... what daily report? in the Balkans? about dozens of civilians killed, including a significant number of children and women, as a civilized and peaceful part of the world, we raise our voice against violence, etc. So people I get an absolutely independent member of the 1st of this resolution. What are the latest developments and victims in the Balkans daily? What war is this about? Absolutely Article 1 is a necessary member. The second story, so I suggest from this goal that this resolution be adopted, I propose corrections. And I wrote that -- I suggest that the resolution be called about condemning war conflicts and terrorism in the Middle East. That's the title of the resolution. And Article 1 to be transformed, i.e. to delete the second row of the Balkans, and then the text could be useful. These are two interventions that would improve this text and simply allow to largely realize the ideas and motives, the noble motives that were presented in these two resolutions. Thank you. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6678	Please, let's move on. Who else is answering for a word? Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6679	Of course, I have no intention of disputing anyone's opinion or calling him any names. Especially not with abusive expressions of dignity or unworthyness, nor is that a model I'm going to use, nor do I think it's good to apply it in this home. What I find important is that Mr. Neimarlija was right when he said that this resolution was not missing one piece, and that part is who it refers to. That is why I think it is good to supplement the Article 5 that should be read – the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Council of Ministers and the College of the Representatives' House of Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina undertakes to act in international contacts towards the realization of the views of this resolution. So gentlemen it is clear who he refers to, and it is clear here that you need to act on international institutions in terms of why a particular problem is not solved. Of course, if we wanted to discuss what the honourable MP Avdić was talking about, then we would bring a resolution of hundreds of pages if we were to list each individual event, because there are past events in both the Balkans and the Middle East and the World, and someone says more widely. Therefore, I think the resolution is quite clear, it should just be complemented by who it refers to and commit to action. Here you go, gentlemen. You can read it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6680	Thank you. I'm afraid that when I have to ask the applicants to read this, it will apply to both you and Mr. Šarganović, because I really can't read it. Sit down. Thank you. Is anyone else answering for word? Đedović and Mijatović. Mr. Mijatović Đedović, Mr. Đedović reported earlier, but Mr. Đedović is a gentleman. Here you go, Mr. Mijatović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6681	I apologize, but I would like to say what Mr Neimarlija has really read in the Rules of Procedure - the House can express its position on relevant political issues, social issues and the necessary...political guidelines to be implemented by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Gentlemen, by respecting your efforts that you commit, the international community, if you are so strong a bourum to you. Here you go. You, I have to say if we don't stick to my thoughts, etc. Something, this is all you wrote, someone said well, you're bringing us into a dilemma if we vote against this, that we say we're for terrorism, that we're for this or for that. And who we can commit to, etc. Don't let Parliament turn into a mere political organ. This is a statement by gentlemen of this kind for the President of the State, for the Member of the 60 Bureau, for the President of the Council, etc. And what's going on here. Look what's going on. I must object to all of you proposing that you terrorize me as an MP. Really. And now you see what you've done with an unnecessary resolution that can't oblige anyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Could be planetary, who, I don't know who you mean. You said some general term relevant international factors. What are they? Give them a list. If you can make a commitment, don't. And now you're getting high on the text that you suggested yourself and you're supplementing it, and you're changing it, etc. And we just serve, we listen. Well, I'd ask you really not to terrorize us. I'll vote. Here's everything you wrote. I'll vote for it all. No problem at all, but it's all unnecessary.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6682	Thank you. Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6683	I thought my esteemed colleague, Mijatović, didn't just hear the phone when it rang at his session. But obviously there are other things. And here, gentlemen in Article 5, we are asking as MPs that through our officials, and you are officials, we undertake both the Presidency and the Council of Ministers and the College of this House to say in international contacts – gentlemen, please take action in the Middle East in the Balkans here on the problem of terrorism and on the problem of human rights violations, the loss of the civilian population. Is it true, gentlemen, that the three key problems of civilian casualties, human rights violations, terrorism do not deserve this parliament to commit, if anything else draws attention to its officials to discuss these topics in international contacts and make their constructive proposals? So here, gentlemen, we do not commit to the international community because we have no right to do so, but to our officials. I'm asking you not to touch the international community, there's no reason.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6684	I'm not the mailman, Mr. Banjac. That's what you see. Here you go, Mr. Đedović. Mr. Đedović, Mr. Baković. Here you go, Mr. Đedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6685	I'm sorry, I'll be very brief. What I'm about to say has to do with the fact that there's no one here from the Council of Ministers. I listened to Radio 99 last night and listened to a report from the Kuwaiti ambassador commenting on a note from the Foreign Ministry signed by Zlatko Lagumdžija about what was going on here. Bosnia and Herzegovina's stance expressed that way. And then I don't have anything that the people would say to me. How long do we get a copy? It's absurd. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6686	Thank you, Mr. Đedović. It's not absurd when we determine political views. Our views, no matter what the question, are important for the Presidency and for the Council of Ministers, no matter what the question or what attitudes. It's not a replica, it's just information. If you'd like. It's not a problem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6687	It's about order. If we commit them, here we already have an attitude that the world is commenting on, which is spoken for us. That's what this is about. I did that when I said that, that's what I had in mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6688	I accept your position. Here you go, Mr. Baković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6689	Ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed chairman of me is a little bit of this and it's hit you believe because lately this has started to feel like something funny. Some material for fatigue, like some grotesque, but dear gentlemen, as we talk about this and bring some sterile, barren semi-literate resolutions there to the poor, whether it's Palestinian poverty, whether it's American poverty, whether it's Jewish poverty, etc. And that's what I'm trying to say. No matter what resolution we have brought, no matter how she was jeweled, no matter how she was decorated with pieces, which metaphors, etc. All this is so it will remain a dead letter resolution on paper, because we have no powers like Bosnia and Herzegovina to change the image of the world. America can't do that either. eno's Buš telling Šaron like this, he won't listen, etc. It's just a so-called dear Bog can fix it. But we can take a moral stand about it and say that it's not right for this practice to be present here and there, and it's not right, and that's our moral attitude, and that's what we can do. And we can commit our executive power to it in some way that it also acts in that sense and is heard etc. Nothing else, and to be expedient and to bring this in when we've already decided to adopt and that's it. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6690	Thank you, Mr. Baković. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Mehtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6691	Dear fellow MPs is already a time when we are quite tired of these discussions, but I can't help but say a few things about this agenda point. Namely, the basic motive that prompted us to decide on this act was this very last bloodshed in Palestine, which is the subject of the attention of the entire world public. Just as Mr Baković said, I felt the need to initiate along with my colleague, we will Begovićemo something through this parliament, because all the relevant factors, the political factors in the world have pleaded on this issue. If you recall the Security Council is to say an ambush on this matter it seems to me and brought down some resolutions requesting the withdrawal of Israeli troops from occupied territories. 62 The European Union then considered the possibility of certain sanctions against Israel, etc. Because of what's going on in Palestine and this particular injury in Palestine was to say that this parliament said a few words on the subject. We have chosen a particular form that is most appropriate, most appropriate and looking at the Rules of Procedure only through some resolution has given us the opportunity to articulate our position on this matter. Mr. Begović and I have written something, we have offered here, but our colleagues from the SDS Club have had some remarks and they have said in one way that they have separated, but also with this text we have agreed with the intention to still leave such a voice from this parliament on these developments in the Middle East. In total, I support Professor Neimralija's proposal, which wanted this resolution to really have one real form, and in this respect I support Mr Banjac's amendment, which outlined this proposal with that amendment, and I would like to ask that we definitely come forward and conclude this debate once again on this agenda point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6692	Thank you, fellow Mehtić. Is anyone else answering for word? No, I don't. Gentlemen, let's try to streamline things. The situation is next. We have a motion for a resolution on the condemnation of terrorism in the Middle East and the Balkans, which were tabled by four Mehtić, Begović, Tošić and Banjac promoters. We have amendments given in writing by Mr. Šarganović, we have Mr. Avdić's amendments and Mr. Banjac's amendment. We have two options of how we'll continue to work. One possibility is that the motions for a resolution and amendments, if that's what they want to sit down and try for a short time of 15-20 minutes, not anymore, because we have another session. We still have a lot of work to do tonight to try to bring the text of the resolution into line, if that's what they want. Seven of them, if that's not what the seven of them want. If there is no agreement, then we must go to the Rules of Procedure, which means to present amendments to the vote according to the order of submission, first Mr. Šarganović, Mr. Avdić, and then Mr. Banjac and afterwards, I read as it stands – the chairman can conclude the debate when in question it is sufficiently unclear, when the conclusion of the vote is broken, the proposed resolution. We can only come out of this by voting on the proposed resolution, because we have accepted it as a part of the agenda. Now that story is over. I'm asking you seven, go ahead and plead. Do you think you can get along or not? Sir, wait. I'm asking you. Mr. Šarganović, go ahead. Do you agree, we'll go from one to the next or we will. You accept. Not now, do you accept that you agree or not? Or we could go with the amendments. Or we could go with the amendments. Mr. Banjac. Mr. Tošić. It was Mr. Begović who put up with it. Do you think you should sit down and get along or go with the amendments and vote? Make a deal with the seven of you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6693	Give them 10 minutes to make a deal. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6694	See what he wants?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6695	I'm asking you to sit down and get along. Please, Begović and Mehtić. Please, it means we're not playing with this text. Let's not play.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6696	Please, I'm asking you to sit down and agree that's your good will, if you don't have to go to the vote you can't, you decide. Thank you very much. Please don't, I know the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Banjac. Thank you very much. I know the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure do not say that there is an agreement, but we can always, given the right of the chairman to conclude the debate when the question is settled enough. I'm, please I've tried, please the thing is clear, I beg you. There were two possibilities. This one possibility of reconciliation meant the readiness of all seven members. Since there's no readiness, we have to go to a vote on the Rules of Procedure and I beg. The first is Mr. Šarganović's amendment. Please, Mr. Šarganović, come out for a pay phone and read it, because I can't read this. It's really a technical problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6697	I'm respecting our time here, the exhaustion in work I just want to point out to you. Article 5, I have proposed here, desiring what Professor Neimarlija said here, and in Article 5, I said the same thing, and perhaps even a little more detail about whom this resolution would apply by the state authorities.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6698	Mr. Šarganović, I ask you to read the amendment text when voting on amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6699	Now I'm going to read in the text.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6700	Read Amendment I, Amendment II.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6701	Amendment I to Article 1 of the proposed resolution. Desiring to misread the meaning in the first sentence in half a sentence later on, I suggest that article 1 be completed after the words "not reading everything in the Middle East and" to include "the past events in the Balkans in the recent past". 64
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6702	Thank you. That's Amendment I. moliti let Dom plead. Is that Amendment I? I'm asking Dom to plead. It has to go from amendments to amendments. Who's for Amendment I? So, Mr. Neimarlija, what's the second time? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6703	According to the Rules of Procedure, the amendments are in order according to general validity. You know. I want to help. [[speaks from place doesn't understand]] First of all, we can't plead on an amendment that fits with a few words of the first amendment, and there's an amendment that's required in...
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6704	Not Article 5. I have Mr. Neimarlija, Article 5.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6705	Please, I understand you, but understand I can't now in that mass of amendments can't have everything in my head and know who it is and who it is. We can only go in order. I really can't just go like this technically. If you get Mr. Šarganović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6706	I will then read Article 5, which has the weight of this which is foreseen by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6707	Mr. Šarganović, don't make it too complicated. Please. Here's the thing completely clear. The amendment promoter will say his amendment and the House will declare itself. What amendment are you reading?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6708	Read Amendment I to Article 1.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6709	I beg you we have amendment I. Please MPs, we have an amendment, please. I ask you if the MP does not give up his amendment, the House must declare the amendment. You read it first. How many total amendments do you have?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6710	Three.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6711	It's not a dispute. We heard the first amendment. I'm asking you to let Dom plead, because Mr. Neimarlia, I'm not in a position for you to be technical, I can't know. I don't have all the amendments in my head. Read all the amendments. Come on. Here's 65.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6712	How do we do it? Amendments can be contrary to each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6713	Please. Don't. Please, Mr. Ljubić, please read your amendment to Mr. Šarganović. So what do I do?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6714	You're looking for a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6715	I would ask you to vote or vote in the first two amendments in view of the text, and the third one regulates the full procedure, i.e. giving the weight to ask you to vote on the first two. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6716	Please. This session is led by the chairman, and I am taking her to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, I must declare any amendment if the amendmentr so requests. I can't skip the amendments I don't have that authority, and please no one is able in that mass of amendments to put them in the head next to the first one, which is second in general. No one can do that intellectually. So please, Mr. Šarganović, you read the first amendment to plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6717	Let's forget my men one more time.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6718	Please, my fellow Banjac, I can't speak at all. Please. Here's a colleague of Neimarlija. Please, let's hear it. I gave my word to my colleague, Neimarlija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6719	How, so you take away my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6720	Please tell me from my colleague Neimarlija's post.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6721	I respect the professor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6722	Please, Mr. Šarganović, I'm in charge of the session. Here you go, Mr. Neimarlija. You have your word. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6723	I was going to suggest. Obviously, I understand your difficulty in chairing the course of this session, isn't it simple for you now to line up by character to say the validity of certain amendments? That is why he would suggest, because it is truly unserious for people to plead on the first position of the resolution where two words are proposed in the amendment and then to declare ourselves whether we are for that position at all or not. I would therefore suggest that we go according to the text then, so that... please the chairman that we do not follow the suggestions, according to the text of the proposal. We've got three suggestions in our first position. We have a proposal from the promoter, we have a proposal from Mr. Avdić asking for his removal and we have a proposal from Senad Šarganović that proposes grooming. In that sense, I think it's more cooperative and...
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6724	Mr. Neimarlija is a very correct and good suggestion. I agree, this is a better option. We're going after Article 1 per Article 2. Take it easy. Wait, I'm talking about methodology. We haven't moved on to the vote yet. Mr. Šarganović, please sit down. Let's take it in a row. Please, let's go from the title of the resolution. The title is the resolution on the condemnation of terrorism in the Middle East and the Balkans. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Banjac had an addition to Article 5. So there's no title. Mr. Avdić, you had the title. That's right. Mr. Šarganović, do you have a title? Do you dispute, do you have an amendment to the title? Yes or no? I ask Mr. Avdić to present his amendment. Please the amendment can be at all. Don't get complicated. Let's go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6725	Oh, no, you don't. It's the work title of the resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6726	What's the point of the agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6727	Oh, no, you don't. What's wrong with you? It wasn't us.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6728	What's the agenda point?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6729	A resolution on the condemnation of terrorism in the Middle East and the Balkans. 67 It's all subjective. The resolution is being considered. We didn't adopt the resolution or the title of the resolution. Don't. The title is only this one. Don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6731	Don't. [[speaks from the site]] You're asking for a change of agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6732	No, no, you're wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6733	Please, it's obvious here that you can't change the agenda point, but I'm ready and put it to a vote. What? We can do that. Here you go, sir. We'll put it to a vote and let the MPs come forward. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6734	It's pretty clear that we don't repeat ourselves. The resolution is a work title and has, the resolution is discussed from title to last word in the resolution. Is that really something to explain? What was the right to adopt the title of the resolution before the House was declared? Who had the right to adopt? I beg you, Mr. Banjac. So no one had the right to adopt the title of the resolution before this House of Representatives, which means it obliges the House of Representatives to proceed from the title of the resolution to the last item in the resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6735	Here you go, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6736	Your Honor, I am your esteemed chairman, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, first of all, I don't think there's any need to raise a tone behind this payphone, because we are discussing very seriously and I don't see any reason to raise a tone here in the debate. Please don't do this. Secondly, I'd like to ask the College gentlemen to serve me, maybe they know what I think so they don't have to serve, but the fact is next. The point of the agenda is what it's like. I don't know what you gentlemen are thinking right now. I know what it says, unlike those who know what someone thinks. The point of the agenda was what it reads. It is identical to the text of the resolution and it is a new situation, the title of the resolution. There's nothing I can do about it. By changing this name of the resolution, we must first declare that the agenda is changing. And I don't mind doing that. There are no bad suggestions for me. But we can't say that, gentlemen, the point of the agenda is to adopt a resolution on the condemnation of terrorism in the Middle East and the Balkans, and to make a resolution on something else. Don't do it, gentlemen. Don't do it to us. If you can't look for order otherwise. Change the agenda item and change the name of the resolution. There's no problem. I don't mind. I'm just asking you to respect Mr. Chairman, you know that on the point of business, that the chairman must take away the word of 68 who speaks the opposite of the agenda. And the point of the agenda is that. What can I do for you? Don't let people do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6737	Thank you, Mr. Banjac. Replica, Mr. Avdić. Take it easy.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6738	This intellectual outwit could take hours. I repeat once again, the House of Representatives has not declared its resolution or its title. The title is also subject to, it was a work title to be placed on the agenda, and whether the work title will remain dependent on the debate at the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. So no one has the right to replace the thesis and say it's the agenda and it's an obligation to adopt such a title. So both the title and the text of the resolution are subject to discussion and debate at the House of Representatives and after discussion and discussion at the House of Representatives it is concluded whether or not this title will stay or not, and it is in the agenda of the working title of the resolution. I'm asking you to respect that.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6739	Please don't do this anymore. Let's go. I suggest that we make a statement about all the amendments, not to be complicated. We can have two days here to discuss who's right, who's wrong. Maybe I was wrong, maybe I wasn't. It doesn't matter. I think I might be wrong to put all the amendments to the vote, so whoever passes, passes, which doesn't pass, and the story is over. Here you go, sir. Mr. Avdić's amendment first. Here you go, Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6740	I'm looking for a word as an MP and as a proposing officer.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6741	Well, we're in the voting phase, Mr. Begović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6742	You have no right to challenge me.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6743	I'm sorry, Begović is not the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6744	Mr. Begović, you have the right to ask for a word, but let me tell you something in the course of the debate, we have entered the voting phase, but since, esteeming your year and that you are the promoter, you have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6745	Please don't honor me, and don't value me my years, I thank you, living be you leave me alone. Whether it's not been years, I have or have no experience, it's just my business. 69 My Lords, this Rules of Procedure is clumsyly engaged. He's causing misunderstandings between us. We spoke for a moment, we listened to discussions to be said without concessions no work. That's not true. The Rules of Procedure say that the majority vote makes a decision. That's one thing. But what's there is. I'm over it. I felt like I was honorably doing what my colleague suggested. The resolution is facing certain state bodies within Bosnia and Herzegovina. She's not facing the international community to commit. And let me tell you right away as a lawyer, we were right, and so does my colleague Mirjanić that the resolution is a binding act. It's not a declaration that's academic and that's not a binding act. And what's there? We found a foothold here in this unfortunate Rules of Procedure, so we need to make a statement about it. If we changed the title of the resolution, we went back to some kind of compromise. You can see that the resolution on the conviction is terrorism. Doesn't this home have the right to say we condemn terrorism on the planet as it happens and threatens the population. That's number one, and our condemnation as an imperative norm is to the competent authorities to commit them to this resolution to continue communicating with international factors. Since we can't find it, I'm staying with the text in Mirko Banjac's proposal as a whole, but I suggest that these amendment promoters and we motion the resolution now, in five minutes, stand out to coordinate and adopt everything in the text.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6746	Please. I'm begging you. Please. No, no, I'm asking you now is 6:30, I'm proposing not 5 but 9 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6747	Oh, don't be.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6748	Mr. Banjac, you're not willing. All right, let's go to the vote. We can't get anyone to agree. I can't do it anymore, I won't. Please, according to the Rules of Procedure, I ask you to finish this story, we have made a very big story out of one resolution, and the laws we have brought to this country quickly. What does that mean? I suggest.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6749	What if we don't make a deal?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6750	We're going to vote on the Rules of Procedure. Up to six and 45. At 6:45, please continue the session. Whoever doesn't come, I go on. [[/pause 15 minutes.]] We gave a break of 15 minutes to try to find, bring the text of the resolution into line. I'm asking you to get 70 match-up reports, if I told Dom correctly whether they were able to bring the text of the resolution into line or not? Who's going in front of the group? An independent MP, Mr. Banjac, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6751	Please, gentlemen, the resolution would now be called - a resolution on the condemnation of war conflicts and terrorism in the Middle East and terrorism in the Balkans. Article 1 – We are taught the sufferings of our peoples and citizens in their recent past are deeply shaken by recent events in the Middle East and events in the Balkans. Daily reports on dozens of dead civilians in the Middle East include a significant number of children and women, as well as tragic individual and group events in the Balkans, obliging us as a civilized peaceful part of the world to raise our voice against violence regardless of which side it comes and who its perpetrators are. Article 2 – Starting with the fact that problems in these areas have been going on for decades, and that, for all this time, fundamental human rights are being violated in the most harsh way, we are asking relevant international factors for a more determined engagement in finding acceptable solutions. Article 3 – In most parts of the world it is expressed the effects of terrorist organisations, and in the Middle East terrorism and war with direct negative consequences of security and peace in the world, as well as the devastating consequences of the security and lives of the civilian population. This situation has a direct impact on drastic human rights violations. Article 4 – Citing the Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms and the achievements of democracy, we believe that it is high time for the international community to take concrete and energetic measures, considering the causes and consequences of this world's problem and offering solutions to achieve lasting peace and stability to, I would add gentlemen from the Commission to these areas. Because he does, if he doesn't mind gentlemen. Now, in the course of reading, I thought it would be a good idea to do it. Article 5 – The Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Council of Ministers and the College of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina undertakes to act in international contacts towards the realization of the positions set out in this resolution. Signatories, Halil Mehtić, Begović Muhamed, Momir Tošić, Mirko Banjac, Sead Avdić and Senad Šarganović. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6752	Thank you, Mr. Banjac. I'll beg you to deliver the text to the service to be.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6753	This should be done now and whether the signatories agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-17-0.u6754	This is all recorded. But to deliver the text if you do. It's on tape. All right. Please, nothing is disputed. 71 Please do not be obliged we have a harmonised proposal for the text of resolution seven signatures or as much as it is, it is so agreed that I put it to the vote immediately. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Niko. Who's being held back? Detained one if I see it right. Thank you. 29 present, for 28, abstention 1 MP. There's no need for an entity vote. It's not obvious. I find the text of the resolution o, did the same name remain, Mr. Banjac? The text of the resolution that was read adopted. Thank you very much. This concludes the 23rd session of the House of Representatives. The session was completed at 19.00 hours.
