ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-26-0.u2909	Other points... three MPs from the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina called on the 23rd regular session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I am opening the meeting of the 23rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished delegates, distinguished guests, I would like to inform you that the meetings are attended by four delegates from the Serb people, four delegates from the Bosniak people and three delegates from the Croatian people. I therefore find that the session is attended by 11 delegates, which means we have a quorum and we can make full and full decisions. For today’s regular session of the 23rd session of the House of Nations, you received the agenda. 1. Development credit agreement, credit for adapting the business environment between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association, proposed by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency and 2. Discussing the request of the chairman of the House of Peoples of Nikola Špirić to discuss Bosnia and Herzegovina's proposal for criminal law, a proposal from the Council of Ministers under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-26-0.u2910	Dear colleagues, since I have serious objections to the report on the implementation of the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2001, and since we are almost half a year behind the report on the implementation of the Budget of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institution for the past year, I proposed that last time be placed on the agenda at last session of the Budget Implementation Report. At that time, most did not accept the proposal, 2 despite being almost 6 months late, and the reason was that the commission was not considering the report. Since it has already been 7-8 days since, I believe that the commission has been considering the report and therefore I propose as a part of the agenda to supplement today's agenda with the report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions for 2001. And if the commission hasn't discussed it, I'm staying on this proposal. If it is, especially.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-26-0.u2911	I thank Mr. Genjac. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We are pleading on Mr Genjac's proposal to discuss the report on the implementation of the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we will plead, I must say that I have not received the report from the commission, so I do not have a commission report that could, of course, participate in the debate. Here's who for Mr. Genjac's proposal? Let's just take a little vote. We've closed the debate. There's no further. We vote, we have to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Who's up for Mr. Genjac's suggestion? - Two for who's against it? - 2 versus Who's abstentioned? The rest of them held back two for, two against, the others were held back. I find that the proposal has not received the necessary majority, it cannot, it will not be included in the agenda. We are declaring ourselves on the proposal of the College of the House of Peoples. Who's for the agenda you got in the proposal? - Ten for who's against it? Who's being held back? I find that 10 for, no one against, no one abstention, unanimously adopted agenda. We're moving to the first item of the Ad agenda. 1. A development loan agreement, a credit for adapting the business environment between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association, proposed by the Bosnia and Herzegovina's Presidency Ladies and gentlemen, received a report from the committee in charge. You also received a letter from the World Bank Director for Bosnia and Herzegovina. You know that once we had a agenda point, we didn't think that most delegates didn't think it was an agreement that needed immediate ratification. 3 We have not even received such a request from the Presidency, but here I think that today is the point on the agenda and that we have all the necessary interpretations to make a positive statement about the ratification of this agreement. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Who is it to ratify this development loan agreement? - Ten for who's against it? Who's being held back? – 1 So, 10 for, 1 abstention, I realize that we have ratified the Development Credit Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association. We're moving on to the second item of the Ad agenda. 2. Discussing the request of the chairman of the House of Peoples of Nikola Špirić to discuss Bosnia and Herzegovina's proposal for criminal law, a proposal from the Council of Ministers under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Who is it that we declare this law in accordance with Article 99? The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? 11 Thank you, unanimous 11 for, no one abstention, no one against. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm closing the 23rd session. I'm asking for a few announcements. I want to thank you all for today's productive work. I want to inform you that as far as our further duties are concerned, delegates can use two weeks to rest. In the meantime, it would be good for competent commissions such as the ustavno-pravni and Law Session to be bound by laws that are in the shortened procedure, so I think that next week can be found one day so that delegates from 1 to 15 can be found. We are planning a regular session in the last week of August so that we can have these legislative projects that have successfully completed the procedures and thus make the best contribution to the development of judicial reform and reform of the economic system as a whole in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I thank you all once again, and I want you to get some rest so we can work productively. Cheers. The seat was stuck with work at 12.20.
