ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7699	Dear MPs, distinguished guests, I am opening the 30th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to the session, the chairman and members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency were invited, I welcome them, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and would welcome them, but they are not there, representatives of OHR, the OSCE, the EU and all others. I find that the session is 30 representatives and that we can work and decide. So the session has a quorum. Once again, I welcome all present representatives and guests. I also welcome representatives of public information funds. You gentlemen have received a draft agenda in the call for the session. I don't think you should read it. I am obliged to explain that I called the session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives and in accordance with the powers of the chairman when he can convene a session before the deadline. You know that Bosnia and Herzegovina is as a country that strives for certain European integrations and some others is responsible for respecting certain attitudes. It therefore means that there are certain laws that are important for it to be able to access these specific integrations and at all that it could apply to the accession of these organisations. Thus, we are subject to certain conditions that we need to meet. Also in today's agenda you will see that there are laws that are very important for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and for business entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina in general. That's why you have a agenda like this. I also add two more requests for the agenda, a request for Bosnia and Herzegovina's Prosecutor's Law to be considered under Article 105 and a request for a review of the Law on the Registration of Legal Persons established by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And these are the laws that the OHR Office is looking for. So it's very important to allow economic operators to register in accordance with these laws. I note that there are no other problems here in these laws. These are laws, so they're proposed for 105. I note that these laws have also been passed in the House of Peoples in the last session. I think it's appropriate that we don't act on the demands of the House of Peoples to still be the legislators of the laws that we adopt. So I wouldn't read the agenda now, so it's about the 12 points you've received and these two new Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and the Law on the Registration of Legal Persons. 2 I am opening a debate on the agenda. Who's answering for a word? If no one's answering, I'm closing the debate and I suggest we make a statement on the full agenda with these two additions. Who's in? That's right, Branka, we can do it together. Thank you. Do you mind? No abstentions? There are no 32 who are present 31 for, without votes against, without abstentions. So we don't even need an entity statement. So 32, 32 for. Okay. Thank you. So I'm required for the record and the stenograms to read the complete agenda. 1. Agents' Questions and Answers, 2. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the proposal for a Law on the Foundations of the Public TV System and on the Public RTS of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure means Article 105, 3. Commission report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of the Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH on an urgent procedure, Article 105, 4. Report from the Commission from the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Bosnia and Herzegovina Air Law Proposal, 5. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of the Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of BiH under the urgent procedure of Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 6. Proposal for a Veterinary Law in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that's a second reading, 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Second Reading, 8. Proposal for a law on gender equality and gender equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina, second reading, 9. Proposal for a Law on the Features of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Second Reading, 10. Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Labour and Employment of Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading, 11. Proposal for a law on the use and protection of the name Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading, 12. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Industrial Property in Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading, 13. Request for an examination of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Proposition of Law on Prosecutors, by emergency procedure, Article 105, 14 of the motion for a proposal for a law on the registration of legal persons established by the Bosnia and Herzegovina authorities, on an urgent basis, Article 105. Rules of Procedure. So that's the agenda. I think they've all got this new one, if they're not here we'll divide that you all have together. So we can move to the first item of the agenda 3 Ad.1. Representatives' questions and answers From last to today's House meeting, the following distinguished representatives of gentlemen: Branislav Lolić, Franjo Majdandžić, Sead Buturović. Also from the Council of Ministers, we were informed that the parliamentary issue was addressed to the Electoral Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina by Ms Branislava Ferzanović, who was referring to the printing of ballots. Who wants to ask a representative's question? The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Zdenko Vukić. Is there anyone else?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7700	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I'd like to express some discontent that last time I didn't get a chance to ask this question to the High Representative. I think the way things went out and asked questions should have been a little bit more order and I resent that than there was no agreement on the College. My question was addressed to him and it was said – How can we expect the law to be passed, when we can wait for the law on restitution, or what can be done to speed up this process? I remind you that the privatisation process in order to be successful, that this was a necessary prerequisite in '97. If we stand for the rule of law, can we tolerate that the right of the user is stronger than the right of the owner? Also in practice, the existence of this law in different ways is prejudged by possible solutions to those who think they are owners, so unfortunately I must say still at this point. I will navešću a concrete example and a concrete political problem in the Municipality of Travnik where at some point a certain structure has decided which objects of the Islamic religious community are returning to use it, I don't know exactly what it is now. While we have a concrete case of the Catholic school centre or to say the property of the Catholic church in Travnik where at the last session of the municipal council it was not possible, or no decision was taken for one reason that one group that agreed still felt that it was not all precise, and let's say, for example, the representatives of the structures that were today in power at this level felt that they could not make, because there was no law. And as far as I can tell, there are absolutely no activities that would be on the verge of passing that law. I point out that it is a very important and significant problem and that the silence that has been in place for these two years, although when it comes to this law, it is not a good sign for those who, for us or for those who are saying they are in favour of the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7701	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Vukić. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Brka, and let the honourable representative, Mr. Sead Buturović, be prepared. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7702	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished members of the Presidency, distinguished colleagues, I was asked by a friend, otherwise by the council of the Municipality of Trebinj to ask the following question - Article 5(5). Annex VIII of the Dayton Agreement, the Agreement on the Commission for the Protection of National Monuments, has been established that an entity on whose territory is well declared by the Commission as a national monument will take all legal, scientific, technical, administrative and financial measures necessary to protect, preserve, present and rehabilitate that good, and will refrain from taking measures which may damage that good and property. The same obligations of the entity authorities also have under the Law implementing the Commission's decision to protect the national monuments of ''The Official Messenger of the RS' No. 9 of 25.2.2002. Begov's house in Trebinj was until the war an ethnographic museum with facilities with catering tourist facilities. The National Monuments Commission has declared this facility a national monument. It was burned and completely destroyed in late 1992. At its site, the construction of allegedly sports facilities of basketball courts began. According to unofficial knowledge, the investor is a famous basketball player named Dejan Bodiroga. - Has a building permit been issued at the site of Beg's house in Trebinj? - If it wasn't issued, why didn't the authorities or the inspections stop the illegal construction? Since this anti-legislative act is a very elaborate provocation with a political background aimed at the reconciliation and return of refugees and displaced persons – what concrete measures will be taken by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission for the Protection of National Monuments established against responsible institutions and individuals and - What will the Council of Ministers take on this matter to comply with the law and the Constitution of this country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7703	I would like to thank Mr. Brk's esteemed representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Sead Buturović, and let the distinguished representative Mr. Lolić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7704	Dear Members of the College, member of the Presidency, gentlemen from the Council of Ministers, fellow Members and fellow Members, representatives of the international community and means of information. I have two things, one question and one suggestion. I've always, I've often talked about health problems, I'm going to get into social problems for a little while now. 5 Question for the Council of Ministers – What is the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Resolute Ministry, intending to do to resolve the issue of survival and functioning of the institution for the care of mentally disabled persons Fojnica, Pazarić, Baković Drin Hum, etc.? I'll illustrate it with an example. The Institute for Child Protection and Youth Pazaric was founded in 1949 by the decision of the SR BiH Assembly, whose main activity is to provide moderate, difficult and mentally retarded children, youth of both sex and all ages, to provide professional treatment according to the plan of mental and physical improvement, through all profiles of experts and professional team as a whole, to train children and youth for work that are on the premises according to their mental and physical abilities, to provide health care and other care. Currently, accommodation in this facility is located 265 guests from the Federation, 80 protégés from Republika Srpska, 7 protégés from the Republic of Croatia, 7 protégés from Yugoslavia, 2 protégés from the Republic of Slovenia and 4 protégés from the Republic of Croatia. The formation of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina has brought about an absurd and ridiculous situation. Niko one wants to take over the role of founders, neither the states, nor the Federation, nor the Canton of Sarajevo. For this reason, the legal status of the institute has not been resolved, no compliance with the Law on Public Institutions has been carried out, no appointment of the management structure of the adoption of normative acts, the appointment of management which has caused an extremely difficult material situation. The unresolved issue of funding and maintenance of protégés primarily from Republika Srpska, as well as from other countries resulting from the collapse of the former SFRY, and there are problems with the collection of protégés from... (exclusive or exceptional) parts of the Federation's space. It all led to the creation of a debt to the institution, which is about a million and 100,000 KM for the period 93-2001. This situation, if it is not resolved in due time, raises questions about the work and survival of the Institute, which would cause inconceivable consequences for both its protégé and the wider community. I ask the Council of Ministers to seriously consider this problem with entity governments, as well as with neighbouring countries, and to address it as quickly as possible. I'll deliver the materials in addition. It's a parliamentary question. One suggestion. Given the importance of this home as an exceptional importance in the work of all legislative bodies at all levels, I propose that this House adopt the code of conduct of Members of Parliament at official sessions. The model was made by a sample like we had the opportunity to see in the Welsh Parliament. I'll attach it. I already put it in the archives, so I would ask the College to adopt this code of conduct and something else to distribute it to other legislative bodies at all levels. I'll deliver this as a copy and be divided through the office. That's it. I don't want to read it, I don't think it's necessary. He'll be won in writing. You agree, is the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7705	I agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7706	Great. Okay. Thank you very much. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7707	Especially the fact that he went to the archives. Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Lolić, and let the honourable representative Mr. Malkić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7708	Dear colleagues and colleagues have recently been shown to create huge crowds at almost all the border crossings of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to be waiting for hours to enter, especially for entry from the country, which is especially noticeable recently after the traffic shift from Turkey via the Jevdjeli highway to Ljubljana. On the other hand, there are really incomprehensible crowds at Banja Luka Airport on the arrival of a small-scale aircraft from Belgrade, very unconditional, and it is really already first inhumane to look at it, and the second incomprehensible that one country and its border service are unable to do something to resolve it. That's why I'm asking the Council of Ministers and all the authorities to tell us that they're trying to solve this problem. I think the solution is probably to increase the number of operatives on those counters, and I think that's something we have to do, because it leaves a very bad picture of our country. I further ask that a question of responsibility be raised for the withdrawal of members of the State Border Service from the state border at Kostanica. The DGS must guard the country's border and there is no one who can order, even if it is from both outside and from the international community to the border service members to withdraw from their borders. I don't know who's responsible, but I'm asking that question to be clarified and to get an answer. And finally, the Council of Ministers because of the importance of the problem most discussed these days, it is a matter of the situation at Kostajnica to give us a statement maybe already today.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7709	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Lolić. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Malkić. Anyone else want to ask a question?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7710	Madam Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, I have three questions for the Council of Ministers, and of those three questions, two have been asked before, and I am renewing them. 1. He'd like information on both himself and this home on the implementation of the CIPS project. Considering the great writing of newspapers and affairs related to this project. 2. I would also like information on the infringement, i.e. the abuse of the High Representative's Decision on the availability of social state land, which is used for the purposes of individual and collective housing. 7 3. Also a question I've asked before. He would like information on the work of the Regulatory Agency for Communications, i.e. CRA, and to grant licenses for the third operator... or mobile phone. 4. The issue is about the recent visit of the BiH foreign minister to the United States and the Press, which was later held – information that is about, a question that is around – što he said, that is, how he told the US president who should win in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the upcoming elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7711	I would like to thank Mr. Malkić, the honourable representative. Here we will now share this report that our budget and finance commission has had over the BiH presidency's memo. So that gives an opinion on the specific review issue for the CIPS Project. So that's not the answer to that, but here. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Boro Bjelobrk, and let the distinguished representative, Mr. Begović, be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7712	I'd like a little bit about flying. A man on a flight can be as pretentious as... so he can make a big machine and move this far away from the water. He could be a altar like Franjo kluz. The man had a great idea of life and he died for it. So, I'm still not in the form of questions, because in my court these are all things about flying explained, at least Erika Jong is a great explanation of the fear of flying. But I definitely don't know what it's about when it comes to the Presidency of the Parliamentary Assembly of this House. I will probably declare myself to be an idiot in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because despite my live presidency since 19 May last year - I insist that they provide me with answers to questions about events in Banja Luka and Trebinj; - I insist that they provide me with answers about a visit to Moscow; - I insist that they provide me with answers to the question from which girls and Bosanac and Hercegovac boys whose diploma may be unsettled in Europe; - I insist that I be presented with arms deals of '97. year; - I insist that I be given measures and guarantees for the free movement of citizens of Serbia-Montenegro in connection with the Srebrenica memorial event; and I have, therefore, can unwittingly establish myself and I will join the league as to who it suits. I highly appreciate some institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina such as the Department of Statistics, but I know you three don't get paid for that variant. I publicly ask you today to tell me what the real reasons are that you haven't been able to provide me with the basic answers about what's going on in the country that I live in. Otherwise tomorrow you have my public controversy with you as long as you live. Thank you very much. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7713	I'd like to thank Mr. Bor Bjelobrk for his esteemed representative. It's the easiest thing for you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7714	I choose who's easiest for me, but you're in public debt.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7715	Dear Presidency, esteemed members of the BiH Presidency, fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I have three questions that I would like to refer to the Council of Ministers, or the Council of Ministers of BiH. 1. The question concerns when and will the Council of Ministers propose a law that regulates issues called cities and settlements in accordance with the Constitution of BiH and European conventions? I asked this question in my own time, and in part I received an answer that I was not completely satisfied with. You know, we're witnessing ourselves to make certain, certain irritations happen. Is it very competent, whether entities are competent or cantons or municipalities to determine names, change names, existing names of cities and settlements, or should be regulated by law. I believe that this should be regulated by law at the state level, because Bosnia and Herzegovina is the bearer of sovereignty in the entire territory of its country. 2. The question concerns the following. Does the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina have the right to substitute jurisdiction in the conditions of the existence of entities and in the conditions of the existence and functioning of the Dayton Agreement? Namely, it's about the next one. We often see, we witness that we have certain brakes because we have to ask the entities and ask for consent, many consents, and from the point of view of the theory of state and law, the state always has the right to substitute competent. So he has the right to assume jurisdiction or to determine when it comes to the interests of the country, sovereignty and the like. In this regard, I also ask the Council of Ministers to give an answer in view of the Dayton papers, the rules that sometimes represent, they wanted no brakes in the further process and the dynamics of our country's development from any point of view. 3. The question concerns the following. On what legal basis is the regulation of issuing budget allocations at the level of the state to serve in the realisation of BiH's case against Yugoslavia? The budget is a legal political document, primarily a legal act by the state which brings the state, and it has the right to provide for certain funding for coverage in the budget, as it is again the country's interest in the whole and the interest of all citizens. The interests of all citizens are satisfied. One who truly is a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina who feels that way, then will not have the hope against the budget being set out in the budget reserve for the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina's lawsuit against Yugoslavia. That's where we have to end the case. We have to end it no matter how the International Court decides. Whether they decide it one way or the other, it's irrelevant. But it's relevant that we have to do nine procedures and predict budget funds, not ask for begging that I don't know someone giving donations or anything like that. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7716	I thank the esteemed representative, Mr. Begović. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Senad Šarganović, and let the distinguished representative Mr. Baković be prepared. Does anyone else plan to ask a question, not get an answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7717	Mr. Bureau members, gentlemen chairman of the House of Representatives, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, first question 1. Why can honey producers, beekeepers from BiH, not export honey to EU countries? Which BiH-level institute can verify the correctness of the products, i.e. honey from BiH, made in BiH, because honey from BiH certainly falls within the order of healthy food and can achieve quality prices on the European market? 2. Has DGS been given instructions on the faster passage of foreign guests and tourists to transit through Bosnia and Herzegovina to the sea? 3. At what stage is the modernisation and restoration of the UN railway, given that the funds from the Japanese government are approved for the project?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7718	I thank the honourable representative Mr. Šarganović. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Baković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7719	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, although even before in me, lived the thought of starting this issue, but today some respected MPs have partly said something about it, but in fact they encouraged me and gave me an active initiative to state my position. It is that at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I mean both entities in general and in a radical sense to execute so-called. deconfiscation, denationalisation and decontribution of assets seized from '45. years and years here, and mostly after World War II. You many know, otherwise you could have read that kidnapping is so-called. Nationalisation, confiscation, etc. that no longer any way, it was with the presence of beatings, so partly and blood etc. But now to mention it, it's already a matter of history. However, regardless of which political option in Bosnia and Herzegovina in power, which is the political doctrine dominant in the name of rights, morals and positive political civilizations, which we are already entering, one way or another, it would be the turn to pass the law to denationalise... confiscation. 10 I am from this place telling the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to make a legislative proposal and to refer it to the BiH Parliament in this sense for adoption in order to resolve the matter. The discussion here was justified, but insufficient and inefficient and I think even that such discussions in the extreme and do not lead to a positive solution to these problems. And these are to hear and see that every party and every national group in that sense and when they treat that problem represents their own let's say national or religious interest. It's kind of normal, but it's not meaningful and it's not effective. At the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the problem should be resolved and all affected parties, parties, persons, legal or natural persons should be covered consistently. It is abnormal to address questions, for example. Now here's a Muslim facility, not to solve a question of a Catholic question there. And it would be an instruction, it would be wise to pass a law that would solve it in a global sense. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7720	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Baković. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Sead Avdić. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, respected members of the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, dear guests, I would only like to add to what the Bosnian Herzegovina public has to say, as regards the statements by Serbian Prime Minister Đinđić at the official cabinet meeting in Strasbourg, which is -- the Balkans are burdening two protectorates Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo, whose state legal status has definitely not been resolved yet. How authentic this statement is, how accurate it would be if at least the Council of Ministers considered this statement and took its official position, with regard to statements and statements by the BiH presidency, and the BiH Presidency's statement is quite the opposite of the Council of Ministers' chairman's statement. In this context, I also propose that the Council of Ministers, based on an authentic statement by Mr Đinđić from Strasbourg, take an objective view of the state of the statement and take measures in this context and simply take his position. The position of the Council of Ministers is not enough, i.e. the position of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is about state legal engineering, international legal subjectivity, territorial integrity which has recently been confirmed in Sarajevo at the simplest meeting of the most responsible people is SRJ, i.e. Serbia and Montenegro and the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7723	The Honorable Presidency, respected members of the Presidency, esteemed gentlemen and ladies, MPs and MPs, of course, that I have no intention of answering all the questions. It will be delivered in the proper form, I think it is not bad that some topics that are practically pointless will be answered in 15 days, so at least we should be informed, because these questions are not asked to ask questions, but to remove some dilemmas eventually before they further escalate in the needy direction. Given the fact that it is still only 66 days until the winner's announcement in the new elections, it is quite logical that many questions are being asked today and can, if they are not being asked with that intention, be ultimately abused in pre-election matters which I do not suppose are targets for any of us. I just want to let you know the Council of Ministers is in session, we just went out because we have a very large agenda. I just want to inform you that the Council of Ministers at today's session on the issue, Mr. Ljubić, is related to the printing of ballots for elections, ballots. I would like to inform you on this occasion since you mentioned this as a question that was asked last time, because by next session it may be late, I would like to inform you that the Council of Ministers discussed this morning the argument of the Electoral Commission, because we asked the Election Commission for information on the printing of ballots and at today's session we discussed the Commission's explanation of the selection of the most favourable offer for the printing of ballots. We first concluded that, in accordance with the Constitution and the law of the Council of Ministers, there is no jurisdiction in the selection process of the most favourable bidder for the printing of ballots for the upcoming elections held by the Election Commission in whose jurisdiction it is. But because of the objectively uncircumcised legal framework in which we live, we didn't consider it enough to just realize that it had nothing to do with us, but we tried to see how in this situation this issue could be overcome in the best possible way and we gave a few suggestions. 12 The Council of Ministers is, after we have received the information that I assume has been delivered to you, because if I am well, as far as I have seen in the accompanying act, it has been allowed to the Parliamentary Assembly and the Presidency and the OHR and other institutions, so in that information the Council of Ministers found that an argument offered by the electoral commission practically opened up some new issues, which I fear may yet complicate the matter, and perhaps with the right answer can actually put everything in place. For these reasons, we have chosen to seek and here I am taking this opportunity to inform the Parliamentary Assembly, first of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then of the competent bodies of the Parliamentary Assembly, so from your competent authorities. And I think it would be good, I suggest that the College meet after this to provide you with this information if you haven't received it, to inform you of the Council of Ministers' views and that the competent parliamentary authorities assume their part of responsibility for one simple reason why the Council of Ministers has no constitutional or legal, I repeat the basis for being some kind of authorising officer to the Electoral Commission. The election commission was supposed to be set up by this house. Unfortunately, since this has not been done, the High Representative has done so, and that is precisely why we are asking that the High Representative also be urgently made aware of this and that the overall selection process on the most favourable offers for the printing of ballots is assessed on this side, and respecting, above all, the fact that they are not to do anything to endanger the election, the preparation for the elections held on 5 October. But please, Mr. Chairman, in some ways, the Council of Ministers will take the responsibility off of itself, because in this whole process, we have no role, no function, but because of some of the above-mentioned principles, it is up to us to ask questions, and we are obliged to draw attention to what needs to be evaluated now. So, please, in the next three days, you get in touch with the High Representative, with the Presidency, with the election committee, with the leadership of the Election Commission and that these things that are now recorded that they are trying to be solved in the best possible way. It's about the Electoral Commission. As far as Kostanica is concerned, the questions asked, I just want to inform you that the Council of Ministers has this item on the agenda right now, and lately there have been very intense communication at all levels, both with representatives of the international community, and above all with our neighbours, the Republic of Croatia. And we can estimate that there is a goodwill on both sides that this is resolved in accordance with good neighbourly relations and with our in general desire for these two countries to be as well as other countries a symbor of the fact that the region has changed significantly. We sincerely hope that things will work out in the right way, but I repeat once again the Council of Ministers, unfortunately it is not that it has the authority to affect it more significantly together, but we are independently using the full capacity we have and we are trying to coordinate those others in a certain way. So, the information about this and I think it would be good if the Commission for International Relations or some other parliamentary committee wanted to be actively involved in all this, I think that this assistance would be welcome because we want to say once again that we have a very big reason to do so. There are even practical reasons. These days, some people need to cross the river, go to the Republic of Croatia to raise pensions they have never raised before, thanks to contracts appropriate to the process should now begin. Whether these people are going to cross the 50m bridge, or they're going 50km round the way, I think the last thing we need to do is now we have people who certainly don't go out of anger for retirement in Croatia. It's about your second question. 13 Also with regard to CIPS issues, today the Council of Ministers adopted a package related to the CIPS and contains complete information. It will be forwarded to the House of Parliament. However, since there must be an answer to the Rules of Procedure on one page, and the answer on one page will not interest you much, because the answer on one page says that things are going well and that until now they have been okay. Well, then we should have a basis for why. On that one page you will get an answer, but behind it follows the entire elaborate a little wider on some 10 pages and then a little wider on some 710 pages with some 7-8 booths in which all the details are clarified and that the Council of Ministers at the next session will adopt the final version of those 7-8 pages, and these 7-10 will be delivered to you, if not already. The fourth issue concerns what Serbian Prime Minister Dr Đinđić said. The Bureau expressed its position. However, I would also like to tell you that yesterday the visok Representative expressed the position that I am paraphrasing about here, because I was together at a press conference after the end of the Peace Implementation Council with him and he put out a position that I, as a minister of foreign affairs, can say that I fully agree with him what I said. That what Serbian Prime Minister Mr Đinđić said, that the first Peace Implementation Council fully rejects such statements and considers them unacceptable, given that constructive support for Bosnia and Herzegovina's statehood from neighbouring countries is a key condition for accepting neighbouring countries as an EU partner to be a team anymore, the statement is no longer a problem for Bosnia and Herzegovina. The statement may become a problem for those who make those statements from neighbouring countries, as the EU does not accept such statements and will treat those countries in an appropriate manner as countries acting contrary to international community rules. The more you know very well that at the three-way summit here, the President of Yugoslavia, Mr Koštunica, signed a declaration that is contrary to one statement, and as far as we all know, President Koštunica is the President of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and he is responsible for such matters. It wouldn't be right if it were the other way around. It wouldn't be right if the statements were vice versa. However, the foreign ministry needs to observe, naturally in its diplomatic channels, it is taking appropriate action to present the views of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions to all relevant pronouns. And the question, Mr. Malkić, which you have asked directly, is now being answered as Minister of Foreign Affairs, because you said that the question is approximately: Who should win in Bosnia, what did the American President say? That's my quote on your question. You said the question of my approximately reads. Yes, it is. And your around question is – what did the American president say about who should win in Bosnia? I'm not going to answer you around, I'm going to be as precise as any associate, I'm not going around because there are too many serious things to ask around. I'd be even more insecure if he gave you some answers. Can I answer this question, try to take it off the agenda? You have been prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the day in your post a complete package relating to the information about my visit as the foreign minister agreed with the Presidency and foreign policy of this country and agreed in the Council of Ministers in an appropriate manner and you will receive full information on the visit to the United States which lasted 28 hours during which I had 16 meetings at the highest level from President Buš 14 to the Director of the IMF and two lectures on Bosnia and Herzegovina in two relevant US institutions. President Buš has given us firm assurances that Bosnia and Herzegovina remains a priority of US foreign policy and I am very pleased with that, as every citizen of this country has certainly been, that an unquestionable continuation of the US political and military and economic presence in Bosnia and Herzegovina is. I am very clear that the United States does not see any alternative to the start of the process of democratic change and economic strengthening of this country. I think it's something that can only please anyone who wants good to this country. The message was also very clear and I will tell you, Mr Malkić, not only you, that in a conversation that lasted more than half an hour, Mr Buš said that the United States therefore fully supports the concept of strengthening economic reforms and their strength, strengthening BiH institutions. It is perfectly natural that he expects, like all of us in this parliament, to get the concept in support of the upcoming elections in October. To reforms of victory, to positive processes of victory, not to go back to some past tense. A quote -- we came to BiH with others, and we're not leaving until we finish the job. At this job we can only succeed together with you (a man talks to me and thinks in the plural, although in English it is very disputable), so we want you to win the fight for a multiethnic, democratic BiH, all of us together, Mr Malkić, because neither we nor you, we can have any exit strategy, but only the strategy of victory in building democracy in BiH. He thanked all of you, so to all BiH authorities for its commitment to combating terrorism and said he appreciates our determination and thanks for the support we have given in religious measures and actions against organised terrorism and war criminals and we expect that the United States and BiH continue to co-operate on the plan to fight terrorism, organised crime and war criminals, regardless of what many of them walk free of those days. Democracy will, he said, be rid of extremists thanks to the people's will and reason in BiH. Let me make this simple, Mr. Malkić. Neither I nor anyone in this country thinks that this nation needs any man from the world, no matter what his name is, who is not a citizen of this country to determine who will win this election. The only sovereign right to decide the winner in these elections is by citizens of BiH and no one else. And there's no dilemma. And the foreign minister whoever he was when he was acting differently would be working against this country's interest. On the other hand, however, we must respect the fact that each country has the right to choose how it will co-operate with the country's respective authorities. You know that they did not want Milošević to cooperate and that was their sovereign right. In other words, the people of this country will recognize, I'm sure of what reform is, what is the future, and go forward. And no one from the outside has the right to interfere in such a thing. In any case, I am using this opportunity to say that in Washington, I am in the middle and others together with the presidents in particular meeting with the IMF and the World Bank, we have received full support for a package of economic measures adopted by the Peace Implementation Council as a kind of contract between the BiH authorities and the international community and my modest contribution to this item of the agenda, Mr. Chairman, that the Parliamentary Assembly at one of its, preferably, I would ask myself, I would schedule it as an extraordinary session, present a package of economic reforms and achieve a full political 15 consensus and in this Parliament, to open a social dialogue in BiH with trade unions, with political parties, with employers, with the scientific public, that in the next 66 days, the dominant topic of our discussions will be the economic future of this country. And therefore, by misusing perhaps the business fact that this issue is a little bit in principle, he would answer with something that has to do with one of the issues, and he would not have to have an obligation as foreign minister to invite you to attend the first session of working groups, to organise round tables, to talk to scientists, to the public - how that the economic reform programme becomes a common problem for all political forces and all institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to hold discussions in such discussions over the next 66 months and not to be owned by a foreign minister who has received support for such a thing in Washington. I did get Mr. Malkić's support for that. I'm proud of that support, but I believe that support is, in fact, the right to tell you your family, as well as mine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7724	I thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Lagumdžija, for his answers. As for this measure of this economic policy, as soon as it comes to us we will be ready to do so. You've reached out, before you've heard from the esteemed representative, Mr. Jovanović, and Mr. Banjac, we've got another 5 minutes around this point. Well, he's got an intervention on this, but we've got five minutes left within this point. But he answered 10 questions. Well, if BiH promoted it, that's fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7725	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I have a line on the first part of which Mr. Lagumdžija spoke, which refers to the Electoral Commission. You remember well that I have spoken here several times how and how the Election Republic Election Commission was chosen. None of you esteemed colleagues, I'm here to make the biggest remark I make to you now, none of you have taken it seriously, as well as the Council of Ministers. And they didn't do anything about it. Therefore, the Election Commission has no responsibility for us. So now we can't do anything about it to the Republic Election Commission because we didn't choose her, because he chose the High Representative. Now you see how we get back the disrespect of the law we need here to adopt. Therefore, the Election Commission has the right to do whatever it wants, so we simply can't do anything to it as it means nothing he didn't want to do means the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7726	I thank the honourable representative, Mr Miloš Jovanović. That's what I thought. Mr. Mirko Banjac's honorary representative has the word. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7727	Don't worry, sir. Dear gentlemen, I would just like to say that today there has been a promotion and a brainwashing and a throw of dust into my eyes that I cannot accept as a man or as an MP as we are. First, in BiH, all seem to be drastically violating human rights from property rights, the right to choose places of life, the right to be chosen, as basic human rights, and someone considers it a promotion of democracy in these areas. It can neither be a promotion of democracy, and of course I do not accept such an approach. The second thing I do not accept, and I think it is also happening, is that the existing authorities, unfortunately, in both entities and at the end of the term of office, are calling some sort of development gatherings instead of doing it at the beginning and showing what they did in two years, but they are now saying they will. That's, there's a folk who suffers when the grass grows. Therefore, according to such a model, we are already tired of talking and a lot of such promotions and I ask you gentlemen that the chairman is not allowed a pay phone for this sort of thing. We came here today to work, not to promote someone. Being introduced as a model, I don't mind, that model doesn't matter to me, it has those to whom it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7728	I would like to thank Mr. Mirko Banjac, the esteemed representative. Moving to the next item of the agenda, that's Ad2. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Foundations of the Public TV System and on the Public RTS of Bosnia and Herzegovina on an urgent procedure, Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of this House report you've received. I find that consent has been reached. So Dom is being notified, there's no need for us to vote on this request. So after this, we move on to a debate about the law itself. Who's answering for a word? The word has been given to Mr. Bilbija's esteemed representative. The House of Peoples has passed this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7729	Dear gentlemen, on behalf of the Club, I demand a break of - an hour for consultation.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7730	Do you want it now? Okay. Then a half-hour break, to be exact. Ten to one, I'll see you. [[Hour break]] Which wheel are we on? On the other. I'd like to ask the distinguished representatives and guests to sit down later, to ask if they have any questions. 17 We continue the debate according to the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7731	Dear gentlemen, since the National Assembly has debated this issue and the National Assembly and the Republic of Government are in principle in favour of the Law on PBS, but certain provisions are controversial so that at this point we will not be able to support the law, but we will have to be abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7732	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Is anyone else answering? Mr. Mirko Banjac's honorary representative has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7733	Dear gentlemen, I don't know if it's worth speaking to, because apparently the arguments are less and less interested in how listeners are, and so are those who decide. Once again, the Rules of Procedure are being misused, and I want to by no means know which time to repeat that Article 105 states that only laws that have a high degree of urgency or a low degree of complexity can be passed using that article. Since it's a law that's supposed to work here, and I think it's working, so it's functional. If that law is in force, and if that law applies and that law is in force in a legitimate manner and applies in a legitimate manner, then gentlemen it is not a high degree of urgency. And second question, I guess we all agree that it's not a low degree of complexity law. Dear gentlemen, if you have any objection to the argument of what I've said, please go ahead and tell them. If you don't, let the gentlemen in the ordinary procedure come to a law that is acceptable to all of us, because no one here is against having a joint service, but it is certainly ready for every MP to constructively comply with what he knows and the arguments he has affecting the content of that law. You gentlemen take such an opportunity, of course, by breaking the Rules of Procedure. Of course, I can't make you do things differently, but it's tragic that I can't make you accept the facts. And less and less in this country need facts, and more arguments of force and coercion. That'll make me vote against this law not by will, but by having to do it because you made me do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7734	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Banjac. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7735	I really hoped that by the end of the term of office we would have at least one session from the Council of Ministers, or from the leadership of the House, or from the Alliance of Commons. 18 I cannot really, simply not, as far as I know democracy, one who has a parliamentary majority, and something puts it on the agenda, he prepares it to pass. The Alliance's been working all along to keep it from going through. So why are you harassing us? So stop harassing this people. Say you can't work in the Alliance. Let's vote on trust. It'll be another 66 days before the election. Well, you can't, you've been harassing us for two years. The whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that's how you harass all the citizens. You can't agree in the Alliance why you have to vote or you don't have to vote. Either of us MPs may have their own objections to the law. I've got them, and I've got them, and I've got them, and I've got this, And Mr. Banjac and others, but you can't sit in the Alliance and tell my people if we're gonna do this. We're not gonna do this. Don't do this to us. That's not what the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina deserve.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7736	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Mašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7737	Dear colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, the Presidency, chairman of the House, colleagues from the media. Under the number one, Mr. Burke, we've been harassing you for two years, you've been harassing us for 10 years. That's one thing. The other thing you had the Alijansa, you didn't have this format, but you had in a slightly different format and for that format in the previous term, so before this you adopted five laws yourself, the others declared High Representative. We have adopted over 30 laws in this term for a year and a half. It's about that. Don't use this, it's really one serious law now that you're promoting your party or something you want to take down the chairman of the House, I don't know or the Council of Ministers in this assembly, it's only 60 days until the election. I mean, there's no need to waste on those things. It's another thing. Mr. Banjac just said that we have arguments that we have to present to someone, that we can convince someone of something. I asked you nicely who voted against the State Holidays Act specifically to explain to me why someone wasn't on Statehood Day, so no one was allowed to justify it. There are thousands of arguments here that need us to have this law. Another thing, Mr. Bilbi, you say the Assembly of the Republic of Srspka, the Government of Republika Srpska. Are you representing the Republika Srpska Assembly here or representing an MP who comes from Republika Srpska's territory. I can't be chaired by, in fact, the Prime Minister, by the federal government of my second party Alija Behmen to order my political opinion, yes. What do I have to do with the Federation, what do I have to do with Republika Srpska? We are in the state parliament, this law is important for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not for individual entities, for individual party interests or to express myself negatively for individual people. Please this is, these are serious questions. In the last session, you also received a letter from Mr. Chairman Dragan Mikerević about which I need urgent adoption of this law because it is of vital interest both to the state and to the integrations that follow. Thank you. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7738	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Mašić. Replica's esteemed representative, Mr. Brka, then Mr. Bilbija. It's not a replica already.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7739	I've got to do one thing, try to tell a nice way. We didn't have the Alijansa, we didn't have the Alijansa for the last 10 years. These were the results of the 90th and later elections. And this is the artificial Alliance that rules the people's will, but the artificial Alliance and I say that's why you said you were going to change. Oh, God, you've changed. Whenever you voted something that strengthens the state, me and my party always voted for it. We'll always vote for it and we're not, we're the opposition, and we vote for it. But you agree to vote with each other and let it pass. You say you'll change. You haven't changed anything at all in the vote. Nothing for two years. That's why I'm saying it. We've adopted and you know how to handle the High Representative. Don't count that for me.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7740	Thank you. The word has an esteemed, here is the first false quote, the esteemed representative Mr. Banjac, and then the replica, the follow-up Mr. Bilbi.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7741	Dear gentlemen, of course, I don't mean Mr. Brk, and I don't mean to replicate anyone, because I only replicate to people who have arguments. To those who don't, I let them talk. That's how this young MP spoke without arguments. The fact is, he said well that this government in the Alliance does not actually worry that Bosnia and Herzegovina is composed of two entities and that there should be elements of co-operation and progress in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's right. And I think that's the biggest problem that's the case, and the truth is that 30 laws have been passed, of which 25 imposed, so by raising your hands it can be said otherwise. These are laws that have not passed Parliament and the laws for me will never be the weights they would have had to pass this Parliament and that these people here have said and agreed what they want in a particular area covered by the law, how do they see this law and how it works? It is extremely important that entities that need to comply with their legal acts, laws at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and be involved in their adoption and in their compliance procedure. That's very important. That's why my dear friends don't work for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I'd like it not to. And a lot of people spend a lot of energy not to work, and if 50% of the energy used to work, we'd all be better off. So I'm not here because I didn't say or mention anyone's name, but I mentioned the inaccuracy and it's the same when it's mentioned, just an example of the Law on Statehood Day. My dear friends, you want the day of statehood to be something that was in the previous system ideologically bound, and you don't want it to be the day that we all welcomed peace together and we all welcomed what's called simple life, because until then it was destruction, and that's the Dayton Peace Agreement. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7742	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Banjac. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Bilbija, and let the honourable representative Mr. Stanimirović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7743	Dear gentlemen, I think I have always been on the line of compromise during my work here in Parliament. How many times have you asked a question here on behalf of a group of citizens and asked for a parliamentary response, if I say here that it is the opinion of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska who chose a people living in Republika Srpska, I did not say that this opinion obliges me, but I am obliged to think about it, because it is the opinion of the people who live there, and I also live there and therefore I do not allow anyone to say that they are either denying or anything. Bosnia and Herzegovina is composed of two entities and if we want to live as we live, if we want progress and three peoples, here comes Mr. Bogićević, thank you, colleague. We must therefore respect the opinions of all of us in order to make us all feel better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7744	I'd like to thank Mr. Bilbija's esteemed representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Stanimirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7745	I would like to start by taking the opportunity and the presence of the chairman of the Council of Ministers of Mikerević, knowing that a letter was sent to us at the previous session by the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers and to explain whether what he signed in that letter as the chairman of the Council of Ministers was true, that the adoption of the law we are today discussing the Law on the Foundations of the Public TV System and the Public TV Service of BiH is indeed one of the key preconditions and that, in order to meet all the guidelines of the Roadmap, what it will say for the accession of Bosnia and Herzegovina to European integrations, and I think it would be very important to Members who may not have read that letter or may not be clear enough for the chairman of the Council of Ministers to explain the views of the European Commission and the opinions of the Council of Ministers. I also think it is important to remind once again that this same law has been adopted in the same text of the House of Peoples and I really think that for those of us sitting here in the House of Representatives, it is a good question for us who performs the function of the House of Peoples, whether the House of Peoples or the House of Representatives? So I would like to request a statement from the chairman of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7746	I thank the esteemed representative, Mr. Stanimirovuće. Is the chairman of the Council of Ministers? 21
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7747	Honorable MPs, respected working presidency, dear guests, I will only say what I wrote, which is that the condition is that we move on to the second stage of our relations with the EU is to meet all 18 guidelines of the Map of Ways. So far, we have now had 11 Plenary SITF sessions, i.e. a consulting working group between the EU and BiH, and we have found that we have not implemented this one of the guidelines, which is to pass the PBS law and the other that we have not yet provided adequate funding for individual BiH institutions that are in a way needed to stabilise the BiH system, and these institutions are, for example, among these institutions. Human rights institutions, the Constitutional Court, etc. So what is the message of the Council of Ministers, it is to ask MPs to respect this fact and to allow BiH to enter a new phase of EU negotiation.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7748	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mikerević. This is where I close the debate. After consulting the College of Honor with a 15-minute break. He's consulting to pass the law. [[/pause 15 minutes.]] If there is no conclusion and I suggest. The word has been given to Mr. Bilbija's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7749	Given the new moments that we have taken into account the importance of this law in order to support and support the Council of Ministers, the House of Nations has already adopted, we decided at a club meeting to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7750	I'd like to thank Mr. Bilbija's esteemed representative. You can see that the break he gave to the College was worth it. I'm closing the debate, and I suggest we make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? Thank you. The results of the vote. 36 for, not from 36 who voted 31 for, one against, four abstentions. The bill turns out the law was passed and doesn't need an entity vote either. Thank you, we're going to the third item of the agenda, 22 Ad. 3. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Council of Ministers' request to consider the Proposal for a Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, Article 105. The Commission has reached agreement, so a request 105 has been adopted. We're moving on to a debate about the law. So there's a bill of law at the hearing. Who's answering for a word? If no one answers, I'll close the argument. I suggest we make a statement on the proposal for a law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? Thank you. 36 came out. Twenty-six for, one against, nine abstentions. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Thank you. Who's from Republika Srpska for? Federation 23 for Republika Srpska 3 for. He's going on a date. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda, that's Ad. 4. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Bosnia and Herzegovina Air Law proposal I am reporting to you the College has reached agreement. So we move on to another reading, and I suggest, should we make a statement to move on to another reading? We don't need to. So we're moving on to another reading. Who's answering for a word? I note that there have been no amendments. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7751	Dear gentlemen, what did you agree on? I ask you to answer my question so that you can continue with the next question. This is what I'm asking you, Mr. Chairman, as chairman of the House. If you haven't reached an agreement on the principle, you should vote on it, dear friend. And if that law is rejected in the first reading, then it is considered rejected. No consent has been reached.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7752	Yes, the College reached agreement in the first reading. College members have reached agreement in the report. There was a misunderstanding, did we do it? Well, we've done it. We've done it. Okay, here's the report here where it says, the misunderstanding was obvious then. So we're moving on to another reading, is that okay, is that correct? Let's not make a mistake, Branka. 23 So who's reporting for a second reading debate? Notingly, there were no amendments, so we have no problems on that side. If no one answers, I suggest we close the debate and suggest we make a statement. Can we make a statement about the law in the second reading? Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. Of the 37 who pleaded, 27 for, 1 against, nine abstentions. Entirely. Who's from Republika Srpska for? Thank you. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Thank you. Republika Srpska 3 for, Federation 24 for. No entity consent has been adopted. Thank you. In our first reading, we agreed.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7753	Dear gentlemen, I've only come out to point to the absurdity of this work. That's why I came out to ask you, because I knew how things were gonna go. First you say you've agreed, and then you say there's no amendment, and then you finally vote against it because there's no amendment. My dear friends, stop playing with us here. It's not fair, it's not correct. Let me just say what's going on in the BiH Parliament. And if this can be called serious work, I don't know what can be called unserious work.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7754	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Banjac. So we're moving to the fifth point of the Ad agenda. 5. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act with the Customs Tariff, under the urgent procedure of Article 105. In the shortest report of the College, we have not reached agreement. So this second part of the vote must be held on the request to be discussed under Article 105. Is anyone answering for a debate on this before the final vote on the request? If he doesn't answer, do I? Who's in? Branka is watching everything correctly. No, no, they have to spend their time together, so who's against it? Thank you. Who's against it? The abstentions? Thank you. Now we're only against it. Right? 24 We vote on the request itself. 37 that's there, 25 for, 1 against, 10 abstentions. So now we need that part of the other entity. Who's from the Federation of BiH against? Who's from Republika Srpska against? Just a little bit to stop the procedure. So now in the re-voted vote, it's only a total vote and it's against. If it's 2/3 against it, then it's falling, and if it's not. So who's from Republika Srpska against? So this is what it means. Then do you think you should do it again? Somebody's been looking for it. Who's from the Federation of BiH against? Obviously, people didn't understand. Thank you. Who's from Republika Srpska against? Wait for my men. This is where I lead. Who's the Federation against? Thank you. Thank you. Who's from Republika Srpska against? Now count and make no mistake. Voting on a request not to be confused. So here, we'll get the results. So the request has passed. From Republika Srpska 4 against, from Federation 2 against. So it's being debated under Article 105. We're moving on to a debate about the law. Who's answering for a word? I mean, maybe it's a little bit of a problem for people, but it's for the sake of correctness. The word has been given to Mr. Bilbija's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7755	Since we have one technical objection to the law, right now I'm looking for a break of 15 minutes, half an hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7756	Half an hour's break. So we're continuing the debate on point 5. Mr. Bilbija's esteemed representative. [[PAUZA]] Should he explain it to us? Now he'll explain it to us. Your Honor, Mr. Lolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7757	...from opportunity to agreement will come. I just want to ask Mrs. Minister, since we have a lot that we are not from this economic profession, and last time she told us that there are more mechanisms for protecting domestic production that all of us here are the main goal of preparing for the next session a little elaborate on how everything can be protected and what the mechanisms for protecting domestic production and what the Council of Ministers is thinking in that direction so that we also know when we adopt future laws to do so as quickly as possible and to give priority to it. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7758	Who's answering for a word? The word has been given to Mr. Bilbija's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7759	Dear gentlemen, since we have been on the market for a break and here we continue, since we have made certain remarks on Article 8 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act, the law is now being adopted or not adopted under Rule 105 of our Rules of Procedure, so, by an urgent procedure. The proposal is that, in addition to this law, the component of the law be an authentic interpretation of Article 8 of the Law amending and supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act. Article 8 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of BiH, which was adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly at a meeting of the House of Representatives held today, probably today, and at a session of the House of Peoples held on a specific day, is interpreted by the Council of Ministers of BiH each year to comply with the BiH Customs Tariff by the end of November and to establish the BiH Customs Tariff for the following year, which means that, following the establishment of the customs tariff, the BiH Council of Ministers shall refer the tariff to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the follow-up procedure. This is because the BiH Customs Tariff is an integral part of the BiH Customs Tariff Act, so amendments and tariff supplements can only be made by amending the BiH Customs Tariff Act. Article 2 This authentic interpretation also applies to you from the date of the application of the provision of Article 8 of the Law amending and supplementing the Customs Tariff Act for which authentic interpretation is given, meaning on the 30th day of the publication of this law in the Official Messenger of BiH. Article 3 This authentic interpretation will be published in the Official Messenger of BiH at the same time as the publication of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Customs Tariff Act. Parliamentary assembly number and date, Sarajevo and in the signing of the chairmanship of both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7760	You're not gonna get the chair to sign that, so be safe. I'd like to thank Mr. Bilbija's esteemed representative. Mrs Hadžiahmetović has the word. I won't sign on to that. It's a new law.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7761	I would like to thank the chairman, thank the MPs for the suggestion, given that, on several occasions, the customs tariff has been tied to the protection of domestic production, so as to give the impression that domestic protection is being determined at customs and customs tariffs. I'll just mention it's at least on customs and customs tariffs. Article 8 of this law, which is before you and which has been adopted in this text in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, includes, among other things, a formulation authorising the Council of Ministers to carry out meetings each year by the end of 26 November, update tariffs and establish a customs tariff for the following year. Such a formulation made an impression with some MPs that the Council of Ministers would take over the powers of the Parliamentary Assembly. I want to remind all of you that customs tariff is an integral part of the law and that changing any customs burden means, in fact, changing the law. Therefore, any change or any new tariff would mean amending the law and again the same process as for all other laws. That is why we have proposed that Parliament which adopts the law and you who is authorized to authentic interpretation of the law, that the interpretation of Article 8 of this law today or some other time, in this formulation which was just... I remind you once again, this formulation of the authentic interpretation of Article 8 reminds me that the tariff is an integral part of the law and that the Council of Ministers, after the publication, or the establishment of the tariff, points to the same procedure as other amendments to the law, any law in the parliamentary procedure. I thank you and remind you once again the importance of adopting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7762	Thank you. Who's on the phone? The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Senad Šarganović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7763	I think that we should respect the vulnerabilities and arguments that the minister gave before and now and much earlier and that today we should, in fact, adopt this law because he is one of our conditions, and my one question has been raised between exports of our agricultural products such as honey, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7764	Thank you. Who's next to the word? As far as I know about authentic interpretations, we can interpret something when it's adopted, and then someone needs to ask for it, and then analyze it, and like this, I don't see how it's done. Who's coming forward to argue under the law? Mr. Željko Mirjanić has an honourable representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7765	Gentlemen, so as not to be a problem, the authentic interpretation of the laws passed by the Parliamentary Assembly can only be given by the Parliamentary Assembly. Since the law is considered constitutional when adopted by both homes in the same text. Both homes need to give the same text of authentic interpretation. In order to avoid any misunderstanding, we need to say what it is, plain and clear. As defined in Article 8. The proposal for a customs tariff law follows something that is against constitutionality, which is that a delegation of the legal jurisdiction for the adoption, i.e. an amendment of customs tariffs to the Council of Ministers, is carried out. That means gentlemen, that we would give part of Parliament's jurisdiction to the Council of Ministers, which does not mean that we doubt the existing Council of Ministers. We simply want this assembly to establish a customs tariff so that there are no possible problems when the law is applied and that is absolutely clear what we are afraid of. 27 Our request is fully in order to protect the interests of this country. It's not a political request, a request that the Council of Ministers can't change customs tariffs, and we all know when the customs tariff changes, and that's why we asked for it. Therefore, it is also possible to adopt the law today and adopt an authentic interpretation which clearly states that the Parliamentary Assembly is deciding to amend customs tariffs on the proposal of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7766	I would like to thank Mr Mirjanić, the esteemed representative. I think that authentic interpretation can be given to laws that are adopted, which are worth the Constitutional Commission could be the only one who can accept this interpretation for Parliament. I don't see anyone else and I can't read the agenda except the law. I don't see how I'm going to interpret something that isn't in force of the law and the law goes into effect, according to how I'm going to interpret something, Mr. Mijatović's words. We're not at my people's market.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7767	My fellow MPs, the Honorable Presidency, I see the problem the following way. This dilemma appears, whether or not it can. I didn't come out to bite anyone, but I'm going to try my own little something and what I know about the right to say next. And I was interested in why, for example. No single tariff of BiH is adopted. I thought there were other problems, but this article 8, which is now trying to explain this authentic interpretation. In fact, that Article 8 stands, i.e. it is unclear, and it can be interpreted as being malicious that the Council of Ministers without Parliament BiH can change this customs tariff. Since the tariff is an integral part of the law and only the BiH Parliament can pass the law, therefore, it cannot be done by the Council of Ministers. This conclusion, i.e. authentic interpretation, clarifies that member. Therefore, the order of moves should be next. To adopt the law and the authentic interpretation of the law, and this authentic interpretation only explains the situation and says that the Council of Ministers cannot change the tariff itself, but that it can, within these deadlines, prepare and forward it to a further parliamentary procedure. If it's in our best interest to pass the law, then there's no problem. There's no misunderstanding. I wouldn't teach a lesson in law because there are authentic, targeted, historical, etc. We lawyers know, and it is authentic that the authority that adopts that regulation. In this case, the tariff law is passed by the BiH Parliament. It is therefore possible, legally, that same body, at the same time, shall interpret and explain that member, if that is the case. I see it in that form. If it's something different, here's how we started to line up, but I think it's the point, and if it's the point, and if I see it that way, I think that's how we remove all the obstacles to adopting the amendments and supplementing the customs tariff laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7768	The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Avdić, and then I will ask the Constitutional Committee to explain it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7769	Dear fellow Members, I think this law is of special importance for BiH, that the conclusion of the House of Representatives is, if you remember four months and more, one of the conclusions, I will remind you, here is the Minister of Resolute Affairs, which is to make innovation here of this law, in terms of radical changes in customs rates in order to be one of the possible instruments of 28 protection of domestic production and, too, I am looking for a thematic session of the House of Representatives on the protection of domestic production. So this is one of the crucial crucial laws for the functioning of BiH, for raising the country's export competitive capacity, to simply enable this concept of self-sustainable economic development, and in this sense it is absolutely necessary to adopt, with the more that is on the way of the Rod map, etc. I think a possible peaceable attitude might be. So, it is not disputed, the law can only be changed by the procedure under which it was adopted, and there is no legal dilemma in the aspect of what is called a possible change in legal, or customs rates in this law, which means that it is not disputed that we all agree on the same procedure as the law can be passed and changed and it is justified in this House of Representatives and until then we have not had any contradictions. So, I would suggest, it's not a compromise, but a possible form or formulation of what my colleague Mijanić has suggested or my colleague Bilbija, which means, at the same time with the law, that we reach a conclusion on the authentic interpretation of Article 8. Legalized customs tariffs and I think we'd make peace with both sides and we'd pass this law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7770	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Avdić. Anyone else, here's a word Mrs. Hadžiahmetović has.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7771	I answered the discussion more for clarification. I'm not even sure Parliament had the authority to empower someone to change the laws without a parlamentary procedure, even if they wanted to. I want to remind you one more time. Tarifa was the law. Change of tariff is a change of law. The change of laws goes according to the procedure defined by the Constitution and our laws. Therefore, neither the Council of Ministers nor Parliament can empower anyone here. This formulation stands only for the reasons of the negotiating process of setting up by the Council of Ministers of Tariffs, which, naturally, goes into the procedure for amending the law and enters into force when all procedures are completed. It would be a good idea to adopt authentic interpretations. I remind you, interpretation is given by the law-making body. If necessary, I will submit tomorrow an interpretation, or a request to Parliament for authentic interpretation of Article 8, and we can request authentic interpretation from the Legal Department of the OHR or anyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7772	Thank you. I also think it's procedure. The word is from Mr. Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7773	Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, one of the ministers has already given me a response. According to this, it's a clear procedure. I think the Rules of Procedure clearly regulates how and in what way and what procedures they are. So that we don't explain it, given that we, we don't have the space to pass the law at the same time and to reach a conclusion on it. Someone has to apply for an authentic interpretation of this law. So it's a procedure that has to go through and therefore cannot be done at the same time. Therefore, I support Mr Ljubić, who tried to warn that part, and so did Minister Azra, the Council of Ministers may request or someone else may request an authentic interpretation and then it is a new item of the agenda. Thank you. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7774	I would like to thank Mr Grabovac's esteemed representative for his explanation. Is anyone else picking up? Dear representative Mr Avdić reported for the intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7775	So for this reason, Mr. Grabovac pointed out this procedure of authentic interpretation, I am therefore the moderation or model that enables us today by adopting the law and after it we adopt the conclusion of the law. So, the conclusion of the authentic interpretation of Article 8 of the Customs Tariff Act and we have reached a conclusion and that is the moderation that avoids this complicated procedure that will last us for the next month or two months. So we can make an immediate conclusion as to why not.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7776	Thank you. Word has a respected representative, Mr. Stokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7777	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the esteemed presidency, the other guests, I think, since it's a very important law that practically there are no major objections on either side regarding the content of the law. So, the problem only appeared in the interpretation of one member. We contacted because my club and set up that dilemma with the promoter. He's the Proposer of the Council of Ministers. The Minister explained to us, meanwhile, and gave this authentic interpretation in writing. So I don't see it as a violation of the Rules of Procedure and it's not safe. So this is an interpretation by the promoter. An interpretation of a member of the law. It's not an amendment. It's not a new proposal. So, essentially, it doesn't change the bill at all, but it's just being interpreted further. There is therefore no and it is not true that there is a breach of the Rules of Procedure in that case. If there is a good will to adopt the law, it can be adopted together with this interpretation and the bill and it becomes an integral law. So, the whole law we need today to adopt. Therefore, if there is a good will, it is not disputed.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7778	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Stokić. Who's next to the word? The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Titan.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7779	Mr. Chairman, I think it's good to pay attention to the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure clearly state when it comes to the authentic interpretation of one law. As the procedure goes, the application must go through the commission phase. It's the same as the amendment to the law. Therefore, it cannot be done at the same time. That's the whole point. It's no one's against the conclusion, it's no one's against interpretation, but it has to go through the procedure, but if it would do so now, especially if it were to be an integral part of the law, if I understood correctly, that this authentic interpretation would be an integral part of this law that would be passed today. So it can't and it would be a violation of the Rules of Procedure. The law can be passed, a request for authentic interpretation can be requested, the constitutional and legal committee procedure is passed and it goes through the ordinary procedure at the House of Representatives as well as the amendment to amend and supplement the law. Thank you. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7780	I thank the honourable representative Mr. Miri Grabovac-Grabovcu-Titan. Who's next to the word? If nobody does.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7781	I feel like we don't understand each other. In essence, the content of the intervention on Article 8 is quite clear. We all agree that the law can be changed by the same procedure as it was adopted. Is that working? So if that's okay, then we can say it in a way. Nothing more and completely settles the matter. No Niko first has to change the law outside Parliament, and that can be defined by the conclusion. There is no need to go to a special process of authentic interpretation of Article 8. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7782	I would like to thank Mr. Avdić's distinguished representative. As far as the conclusion is concerned, it's not at all questionable, and if that conclusion means nothing to me. It is known that the law can only be changed as it has been passed. Is anyone else answering for word? I suggest that we make a statement on the amendment and supplementation of the Customs Tariff Act with the customs tariff. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? There isn't. Who's restrained? Thank you. Of the 36 who voted 30 in favour, without opposition, five abstentions. Let's check the entity just in case. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Thank you. Who's from RS for? Does Mr. Avdić stay at his conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7783	There's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7784	Does anyone have a conclusion? 23 from the Federation for – from RS 6 for. So, the law passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7785	The proposal for a conclusion was made by Mr. Bilbija and read it at the pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7786	Not if there's someone behind the pay phone. Here, otherwise, Ms. Hadžiahmetović will intervene. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7787	I thank Mr. Ljubić and all those who have had any dilemmas. This law will enter into force in accordance with the usual first ones in a given period, which includes publication and everything else. I would like to inform again that tomorrow morning I will request the opinions of the OHR Legal Service, or the Legal Department, which will help resolve all the dilemmas that were, and as well as the resolution minister from the Parliamentary Assembly as soon as the law enters into force to request the authentic interpretation of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7788	I thank the honourable minister, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Avdić, to propose a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7789	I beg you in this euphoria objectively we must be correct and fair to the end, a simple suggestion of the conclusion that I have made to him and it is fair and correct to make a statement about him today. A representative home as an integral part.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7790	Do you need to read it?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7791	Conclusion on the authentic interpretation of Article 8. Customs tariff law where we repeat it once more. I think I'm a little complicated I can't repeat, replicate what Bilbija read, but simply that the law can be changed according to the procedure by which it was adopted at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, that is, in the BiH Parliament. I think it would be a possible way out of this situation. I've been very clear at the conclusion and I'm staying at the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7792	Is it necessary to make that conclusion in writing?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7793	To read Mr. Bilbi orally.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7794	No, this is what I'm looking for. I want the conclusion prepared in writing and we're going to the next point. Let's take a break. ... get the conclusion. [[PAUZA]] Is there anyone here for the conclusion? Have you read the conclusion? Have you studied it? Can you make a statement about him or can you discuss him? Who's answering for the conclusion word? If no one answers, who's to conclude? 32 Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? From 35 – 33 for – 1 against – 1 abstention, meaning, adopted. Let's move on. We're moving to agenda six. Ad.6. The proposal for a veterinary law in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the second reading of the Proposed Veterinary Law in BiH, was adopted in the first reading at the 29th session of the House on 16 July 2002. I remind you that in the plenary phase, we have amendments to the honourable representative of Mr Salih Kulenović and the College must declare whether they release these others... I'm opening a dispersion. So the debate is in the final reading of the amendments. Who's answering for a word? If no one's answering, we need to see the amendments now. We'll vote on them. First of all, I need to see if I can adopt. My amendments were adopted at the commission stage, so I have no reason to drag them around just asking them not to be confused. Your Honor, Mr. Lolić, how old is he? - Four. So he had to vote on the amendments. So, the esteemed representative, Mr. Kulenović, has proposed three amendments. Amendment number I. Should we read it or are we just going to vote? Who's for amendment number I? Thank you. Who's against it? - No one with suzdržati? There isn't. Amendment number I 34 votes – 33 for no votes against. So, adopted. We're going to Amendment II. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? From 34 to 33, no votes against and no abstentions. So Amendment number II Amendment number III, who's in favour? Do you mind? The abstentions? 34 votes – 33 for. Amendment number III has been adopted. We're moving on to the adnames of Mr. Lolić's distinguished representative. This amendment seems to be the same, but so there's no confusion, we'll vote. Amendment number I. Who's for Amendment number I? Do you mind? The abstentions? There isn't. Amendment number I – 34 votes 33 for - without abstention. So, adopted. 33 Moving to Amendment number II. Who's in? Do you mind? The abstentions? 34 who voted 33 for it. So Amendment number II adopted. Amendment number III Who's in? Who's against it? No abstentions? no 35 present – 33 for. No votes against and no abstentions. So Amendment III adopted. Amendment number IV Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. Of the 35 who are there – 33 votes. 32 for – 2 on the phone talking. So, unanimity adopted. So, we've done this amendment phase. We're now moving on to a statement on the full law. Who's for the BiH Veterinary Act? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? Of the 35 that are there – 35 for. So, we passed a unanimous Veterinary Act in BiH. We're going to the 7th item of the agenda. Ad.7. The draft law amending and supplementing the Bosnia and Herzegovina Central Bank Act is a second reading of the Bill's proposal was adopted in its first reading at the 29th session of Dom on 16 July 2002. We don't have an amendment to the bill. I am opening a debate on the draft law amending and supplementing the BiH Central Bank Act. I'm closing the debate, and I suggest we make a statement about the law. Who's in? Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. Based on the results of the vote, I find that out of 35 who voted 35 voted in favour, we adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Central Bank of BiH Act. Ad.8. Proposal for a law on gender equality and gender equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the second reading of the bill was adopted in the first reading at the 29th session of the House on 16 July 2002. I remind you that in the plenary phase, we have amendments to the honourable representative of Mr. Željko Bilbija who submitted amendments on behalf of the PDP Club, SNSD, SR.... and Emina Zaćiragić the amendment was called to Article 94(3). 34 So we're discussing amendments and we're going to vote on amendments. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? These are amendments to be equal. If there isn't, I'm closing the argument. We have a statement of nine amendments to Mr. Bilbija's honourable representative. Who's for amendment number I? Thank you. Who's against it? There isn't. The abstentions? The word has a distinguished representative, Mrs. Kamberović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7795	I'd like to ask if all the MPs have any amendments on the tables that are now being debated. Given that the amendments on the Commission have been rejected, I believe that, seeing as the members who voted against these amendments are also raising their charts, so I say that something is wrong, or they don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7796	We can work this thing out. Let's see that the amendments are being prepared and we move on to the next point so we don't get too serious. Is that okay? So I'm asking the servants to split up so everyone can see if they need to explain what the amendments are, because there's a lot of amendments. Can we do that? You got it. We're moving to agenda nine. Ad.9. The proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's medals, a second reading of the Bill's proposal, was adopted in a first reading at the 29th session held on 16 July 2002. There's no amendment to the bill. I'm opening a debate about the law. Who's answering for a word? If no one answers, I'll lock up. I suggest we make a statement about the law. Who's in? Do you mind? The abstentions? There isn't. Of the 35 who pleaded – 35 for. So a unanimous law on BiH's honours was passed. Thank you. We're going to the 10th point of the agenda. Ad.10. The proposal for a law on the Agency for Labour and Employment of Bosnia and Herzegovina is a matter of first reading, only the principles of the draft law are addressed to lawmakers on 6.06. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 17.06.2002. So it was the Constitutional and Legal Commission whose report was forwarded to the MPs on 18 July. First reading debate under Article 95 The Rules of Procedure, therefore, are constitutional principles and principles. Who's calling? I'm closing up. Niko one's answering. I suggest we make a statement about the law in first reading, principles and principles. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. 35 I konstatirati that we unanimously voted with 35 votes to adopt the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Labour and Employment of BiH in the first reading. Thank you. We're going to the 11th point of the agenda. Ad.11. The proposal for a law on the use and protection of the name Bosnia and Herzegovina, the first reading of the bill was sent to lawmakers on 6 June 2002. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered an opinion on 17 June 2002. The Constitutional and Legal Commission, whose report was forwarded to representatives on 18 July of the current year, is in charge. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: The Rules of Procedure of the House. So principles and principles. Who's answering for a word? No Niko's answering. I'm closing the debate. I propose that we make clear on the proposal for a law on the use and protection of the BiH name in the first reading. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. Sustained? There isn't. I find that out of 35 who are there 35 voted in favour. So we unanimously adopted the proposal for a law on the use and protection of the BiH name in the first reading. Thank you. Ad.12. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Industrial Property in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the first reading of the bill was sent to lawmakers on 17 April 2002. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion 23. ... 2002. The Commission for Finance and Budget, whose report you received at the beginning of the session, says here. The debate is held in the first reading under Article 95. Home Rules of Procedure, so principles and principles. It's about a little slight change that doesn't hurt. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? If no one answers, I'll close the argument. I suggest we say who's in. Who's in? Who's against it? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. I find that out of the 34 who are there – 34 voted for it, we passed the Predrd Industrial Property Act in BiH in the first reading. Thank you. We're going to the 13th agenda. Ad.13. Request for an examination of the Proposal for a Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by emergency procedure, Article 105. Rules of Procedure – Proposer Mariofil Ljubić and can anyone else want to join. It is a law adopted and in the House of Peoples that I am opening the debate first on the request to discuss it in accordance with Article 105. Who's answering for a word? If no one answers, I'll lock up. I propose that we make a statement on the request to discuss it in accordance with Article 105. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? Of the 34 who are there 27 for – 1 versus – 5 abstentions. We can do this entity thing. 36 Who is from the Federation of BiH for? Thank you. Who's from RS for? From Federation of BiH 25 for. From RS 2 for. So there's a match. Thank you. We're moving on to the next point. Ad.14. A request to consider the Bill on the Registration of Legal Persons established by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina's authorities, on an urgent basis, member of 105th Proponent Mariofil Ljubić again. He was adopted into the House of Peoples. We've considered it a long time ago, and we've adopted it. The debate shall be held on the request to be considered pursuant to Article 105. Who answers the word. If no one's answering, I suggest we make a statement as to who's being considered under Article 105. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? Thank you. From 35 – 25 for – 1 against – 7 contained. Who's from RS for? Thank you. Who's from the Federation for? Thank you. 25 for the Federation – 2 from the RS is going to agree. Can we go back to that law or can't? We haven't won yet. There's two options either we take a break or we finish when he gets here. Ten minutes break, so if they're done, if they don't, we're going home. We have certain amendments. [[PAUZA]] Is it possible to approach the vote on the amendment? Whether or not the amendment's proposings want a word to explain it. There's no need. We have to vote on the amendments. That's right. We return to the vote on the amendment and the honourable representative of Mr. Bilbija on behalf of the club that was proposed. Amendment and who's in? Who's against it? Are there any sublimes? From 32 – 15 for – 14 against – 2 abstentions. Now we need an entity. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Who's from RS for? Federation 6 for – RS 8 for. There's a match. Amendment number II to Mr. Bilbija's honourable representative. Who's in? Do you mind? Are there any sublimes? Of the 32 who voted 10 for – 18 against- abstention 3. So there's no need for an entity vote. So this amendment didn't go through. We know what we're voting on. 37 Amendment number III Who's in? Do you mind? The abstentions? Of the 32 who voted 10 for – 18 – against – 3 abstentions. So, it wasn't this amendment that was adopted. Amendment number IV Who's in? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? Of the 32 who voted 10 for – 19 against – 3 abstentions. So this amendment IV didn't go through. Amendment number V Who's in? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? From 32 – 8 for – 19 against – 3 machines, so Amendment number V did not get most. Amendment number VI Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's restrained? 32 who voted 9 for – 19 against – 3 abstentions. So no amendment number VI Amendment No. VII Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's the master? Of the 32 who voted 9 for – 19 against – 4 abstentions. So amendment number VII didn't get a majority either. Amendment number VIII Who's in? Do you mind? The abstentions? Of the 32 who voted – 9 for – 19 against – 4 glares. Amendment number VIII didn't get most of it. Amendment number IX Who's in? Who's against it? The abstentions? From 32 – 9 for – 19 against – 4 suspensions. Amendment IX was not adopted. This is what we voted on on all the amendments. One amendment goes to consent. We have another amendment of Ms. Emina Zaćiragić's distinguished representative. 38 Who's in? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? Of the 32 who voted – 16 for – 5 against – 11 co-starred. Entity who's from RS for? Who's from the Federation for? Federation 14 for – RS 1 for. So it's a coincidence. We don't have a chance to move on. In the words of the distinguished representative, Mrs. Kamberović, but we cannot move forward on this law since it is necessary to declare these amendments. So, after the break.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7797	I would like to ask Mr. Željko Bilbi amendment promoter that he may still plead, given that one amendment is going to be agreed upon. Is there any possibility that he might give up the amendment?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-08-01-0.u7798	I thank you for finishing the session. The seat's finished at 6:00.
