ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6676	Members, honored guests, I am opening the 4th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, today's president is attending the High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina and I have the special pleasure to welcome Ambassador Pedi Eždaun, High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina, who today, as scheduled to address this parliament in the agenda. I support all those present. Members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency are not present today because they have obligations related to international contacts with BiH. I welcome the members of the Council of Ministers present here, OSCE representatives, representatives of the European Union, representatives of the Observer mission, representatives of the BiH Embassy who have expressed interest in monitoring the work of today's parliamentary assembly, representatives of the UN mission in BiH. I find that today's session of 42 MPs is attended by 40 MPs, or 41 MPs, only one MP, Mrs Đurković Jelina, justified her absence. So, they are present, practically all MPs of 42, 41 are written. One MP justified the absence, so we realize that we have the cohorts that we have the conditions for full work and decision-making. You gentlemen have received a draft agenda for today's session. You've got a proposal on the agenda. I'm asking you if you agree with the proposal for this agenda. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Does anyone want to talk? Mr. Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6677	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, the esteemed members of the Council of Ministers, your Excellency Mr. Eždaun, the esteemed guests and the esteemed representatives of the information funds, with the desire for this session to be expedient, I think MPs should first listen to the address of the Vislik President and then not bother him with our debate on agendas and agendas, and then we, according to our Rules of Procedure, are having a debate on the agenda and we are doing our part of the work. I think that would be better than to open a debate on the agenda now. That's my suggestion, then. If the proposal doesn't pass, then I'll say what I mean about the agenda, but I'd like to define ourselves for this vision. Thank you very much. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6678	So tell me now, Mr. Špirić how you feel about the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6679	Well, first of all, do we agree to listen to the address or discuss the agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6680	I wouldn't want to.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6681	It is unusual for the agenda point to be defined, it is unusual that the agenda point, unusually, should be defined as a point, we have no material to decide on, we cannot vote for or against, but with a desire, we expect to address the High Representative and it is not disputed. But when it comes to the other points of the agenda, I will have a proposal to amend and supplement the agenda, so if, therefore, Parliament's decision to debate out of order I can also debate, but I would like to make a statement. We all have to hold out.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6682	I don't think there's any need for us to run the blizzard from the scene. I just want to inform you and Parliament that we have taken great care of this issue and that we have assessed that the address of the High Representative to this House should not be outside of this House's session but rather in the sessions of this House and we have already taken care of this issue and we have not accidentally done so as we have done. You, Mr. Špirić, of course, have the right to have your remarks on the agenda and I ask you, if you have any objections please take them out.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6683	Thank you. It's good to know the explanation. It's not a dispute.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6684	Go ahead, Mr. Špirić. As far as the agenda is concerned, I thought that the College, the wider college, would, when proposing the item on the agenda of the BiH Citizenship Act, which I think is a very important item of the agenda, that Parliament should adopt amendments and supplement the law, because they are important to the citizens of BiH. I am sorry that it is an emergency procedure, that Parliament has not been able to bring it into the ordinary procedure, but I do not think it is disputed either. An emergency procedure as it concerns three members and the Rules of Procedure say that when it comes to short laws that are clear can and urgent procedure, but I would like the Presidency to make sure that a double state-level agreement with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is signed. I am sorry that this agreement is not over and it would be good for the Republic of Croatia to make sure that today's agenda is a point of ratification of the dual citizenship agreement with the SRJ. I'm saying it for reasons to avoid different speculations. It seems to me that there has been enough time since the signing of the agreement, that today we have had a point of the agenda of ratification of this agreement, and therefore, I hope that someone using the right of business will propose this point of the agenda to adopt this law today and to have ratified, in my opinion, a very important agreement and I would like to expect the same agreement with the Republic of Croatia with a view to simply, as regards establishing good neighbourly relations, in the interest of all our citizens, that we are finished when Parliament is concerned. So it's just my contribution to this debate. I would also like to think that someone would suggest that we ratify this agreement today. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Špirić. I'm just going to give you an explanation. The dual citizenship agreement between BiH and Yugoslavia, signed by the BiH Council of Ministers and the Yugoslav government or the relevant authorities, did not come into parliamentary procedure. He is not in the BiH Parliament. We didn't get it. This is the official report of our services here and I want to, therefore, inform you of that fact, and everything that didn't come here in parliamentary procedure, simply by nature things can't be the subject of the agenda. Yeah, and somebody wants to talk about the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Živković. Mr. Živković Milorad has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6686	Dear High Representative, the Honorable Presidency, we are in an awkward situation. I think my colleague Špirić has made a good proposal for Mr. High Representative to address this home and then to discuss the agenda, for the simple reason why we are now in the situation that I, under Rule 50 of our Rules of Procedure, suggest that under the 5th agenda there be a point of ratification of the dual citizenship agreement between BiH and SR Yugoslavia and I seek a half-hour break in Article 62. Rules of Procedure as vice-president of the SNSD Club, where the Council of Ministers or a certain service needs to deliver this agreement to us and, if you do not accept this item of our agenda proposed, we will then consider how we will vote on that agenda. Of course, we want the vosok representative to address this home, but we will be restrained for such a agenda where our act does not come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6687	I thank the gentleman. Does anyone else want to talk? Mrs Azra Hadžiahemtović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6688	Dear Chairman, Mr Eždaun, colleagues and fellow Members, colleagues and colleagues from the Council of Ministers, allow them to comply with Article 50. I propose that the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, as one of the authorising officers, be placed on the agenda of the export, import and export of weapons and military equipment of BiH today. The Council of Ministers proposed and directed the law into parliamentary procedure and went beyond procedure 105, therefore, an emergency procedure. 4 Explanation if required by the Chairman I will only remind you that after the events that were related to the Eagle affair on 28 October o.g. an instruction given to all competent institutions and governments of both entities and Brcko District, which states that the new regime of imports and exports of arms and military equipment has been in force since 20 October and has been requested by all competent institutions to take all measures to prevent the export and import of arms, without authorisation issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. In agreement with the ESFOR, the OSCE, OHR and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, exports were allowed, i.e. imports of equipment and weapons authorised under the old regime before 20 October, with the advance approval of the ESFO and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. On October 29th, the Ministry of Foreign Trogogue and Economic Relations initiated the first meeting to discuss the issue of arms and military equipment exports and imports, and this meeting was attended by the head of the OSCE Mission, Ambassador Bikroft, High Representative Hayes, BiH Treasury Minister, Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs and Communications and representatives of the foreign ministry and the Standing Committee on Military Affairs. As the Eagle case worked on clear violations of UN sanctions, the meeting was informed by representatives of the international community about all the activities undertaken by the Ministry of Foreign Trade in order to take over export and import controls and military equipment, and in accordance with the decisions of the Council of Ministers and the law on foreign trade policy. We tried in one way to convince representatives and the international community that in a concrete case it was an incident that could in no way be an indicator of BiH's respect for international obligations, and that the authorities would carry out an investigation and that the state would take over part of its responsibility, or that BiH would respect all international obligations. In this regard, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and organised a meeting on the establishment of procedures for the export and import of arms and military equipment with representatives of the state institutions, competent state institutions, competent state institutions, defence ministries of both entities, entity ministries of finance, the Christian administrations and representatives of the international community, and this: the OHR, the OSCE, the ESFOR, the UN and the US Embassy. It is agreed to prepare a manual, which will work until the new law is passed. A number of meetings with OSCE, OHR and ESFOR representatives were held afterwards, preparing a new law on imports and exports and transport, i.e. the transit of arms and military equipment and the footholds of this new law, are in the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, taking over the international obligations of BiH and the Foreign and Trade Policy Act. Given the commitments made and the deadline set by Mr Pedi Eždaun on 15 November 2002. The foreign trade ministry has prepared a manual on issuing export licences and imports of weapons that are valid until the new law is passed. Both the law and the new instructions set out the role of the Ministry of Foreign Trade which issue export licences. After the necessary documentation and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, i.e. civil affairs and communication, or the consent of the Joint Military Committee, the Ministry shall issue a provisional authorisation. The law has the support of all international organisations. I will only remind you that the role played in all of this was played by the OSCE, OHR, ESFOR, CAFAO, or the European Commission in BiH. After the Council of Ministers adopted this law, a working group has been set up to draw up instructions, or to prepare the authorisation procedure. 5 Dear colleagues and colleagues, aware of the fact that the dedicated industry is one of the main exporters in BiH, and the fact that, according to some estimates, about 30,000 people work directly or indirectly in the dedicated industry and earns money for their lives, and after an affair that is related to the sale of arms to Iraq, it immediately came to the making of this law, in order to restore trust in our industry and finally regulate the issue of exports and imports of arms and military equipment, thus ensuring both the continuity of business and employment of our people. The aim of the law is to help the dedicated industry and cannot make their business more difficult. I urge the MPs, all of you, to put this law on the agenda today and to put it on the table as an emergency procedure, to consider and adopt it in the parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6689	Thank you Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, that is an additional explanation that could, of course, be shorter. I'd only ask you to have the exact name if we had that. The law was passed, the law came into parliamentary procedure yesterday. An order was given yesterday to deliver to the MPs. I don't know if the MPs have received it. We have Mr. Novaković president of the SDS Club and then we will conclude the debate on the agenda, because the time for us... Mr. Novaković and Mr. Belkić and then we will conclude and I will give a proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6690	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Excellency, Mr. Eždaun, fellow MPs, honored guests, the Serbian Democratic Party's Club supports the SNSD's request for a half-hour break to put the ratification of the agreement on the agenda, so that the ratification of the dual citizenship agreement between the SRJ and BiH and on the other hand, I think it would be a good time before and before, indeed, the conclusion of the debate on the agenda to turn to this home, and I think we are already in session to turn to this home Mr. Eždaun, so as not to wait further, therefore, for our discussions on the agenda, the breaks, the votes, the votings, and so on. I also came out to say that our club cannot accept a proposal from the Party for BiH to find a law on imports and exports of weapons on the agenda today, given that it is, indeed, a law that we received just before this session and that entering into the debate in such a way about such a serious object, I am afraid in one unserious way has brought into question all this work on that law. That's why I suggest that this law be in someone else's whether or not to the regular whether or not to the shortened procedure, but in any case not at today's session.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6691	I thank Mr. Novaković. More Mr. Belkić, and then I'll make a proposal based on all the discussions.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6692	Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, the Party for BiH MPs' club, is in full support of the proposed agenda, including the address of the High Representative within the agenda. I would like to remind you that the presence of 6 High Representative and his address at today's session is a good part and the result of the demands of a number of MPs from a number of political parties. Of course, with the support of all of us. I don't think we're bothering the High Representative with our debates, he's simply part of our set and part of our reality and constitutional justice system, and I don't regret him being here and listening to this. Connecting the introduction into the agenda of ratification of the double state-level agreement with the SRJ, between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Yugoslavia with the introduction, with the proposed agenda, more concrete changes and additions to the law on dual citizenship, I do not think it is rational. To remind you, the procedures, the demands and initiatives for amending the law on dual citizenship and the signing of wherever possible bilateral agreements with dual citizenship last a year because of the dispute and the Council of Ministers and this Parliament, we have come into a kind of teatunt, and if I have to admit that this law, or the law on amendments to the Law on Double Citizenship, has been in place for three months, almost three months in Parliament. He was delivered to this parliament in early September. By us, practically, anything he wasn't at the debate and wasn't adopted. I don't see anyone, if we put in law today on amendments and additions to the BiH Citizenship Act, will have any damage. I think just by passing this law today, with a request from the High Representative that he completes the void of the absence of the people's home, we will bring all our people into an equal position, and as far as the dual citizenship agreement with the SRJ is concerned, let it go on its own course. The moment he comes to the congregation, we'll put him on the agenda immediately. Therefore, the Party for BiH MPs' club insists that the agenda be accepted, i.e. it advocates, and that the address of the High Representative be within the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6693	I thank Mr. Belkić. I'm in the middle of a debate on the agenda. We're in business in the next situation. Two MPs' clubs demanded a 30-minute break and I'm respecting the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure literally states that if the club requires a break until the clock of time, I have to give that break up to 30 minutes. Over 30 minutes, then it's put to a vote. In order to overcome this situation now, so as not to expose the High Representative and the break, he has his urgent affairs, and I suggest that we, before we speak on the agenda, hear the presentation of the High Representative, the issues to the High Representative and then declare ourselves on the agenda. I've concluded a debate on the agenda. Now I suggest, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6694	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. You're an unleastic way of running this session, and you've come to the point that we've come to a business contradiction. I was looking for a break per member of this 62nd current Rules of Procedure, and I think it would be okay to take a break first and then conclude the debate, because after that break, I think we could still discuss these points and the proposed agenda. But not to say that the opposition is obstructing the work of this Parliament we agree that Mr. High Representative is addressing this parliament, that after that we are looking for a break, that is to get a break of up to 30 minutes and after that and the explanations of our break you conclude the debate. Thank you. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6695	Okay. I put my proposal to the vote. Who is it, I urge you to make your statement by voting on my proposal. So the proposal is like this. Since it is a request for a break from the president of the Club, and according to the Rules of Procedure, it is simply so, I propose that before this break, in order to appreciate that today's session is attended by the High Representative, that there are obligations and others, to address Parliament the High Representative, to ask the High Representative a question, to the High Representative to answer questions and then to discuss the agenda and to set the agenda. Please. It's a break, isn't it? I'm giving 30 minutes off at the SNSD Club's request. /PAUSE 30 MINUTES/ poslanik, esteemed guests, continue to work. During this break, I spoke to the presidents of almost all the parliamentary clubs, almost all the MPs' clubs in this house, and so we agreed not to conclude this debate on the agenda, and to invite Mr. Eždaun's High Representative to address this parliament. Mr. Ambassador, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6696	Let me tell you how pleased I am and I think it's pretty good to be here to listen to this House's work. I think it is of paramount importance that my visit here, which is likely to be the first of many, be part of your parliament's normal procedures, not the exception. Let me also say that it has been a great pleasure coming here to see that the work on our building of joint institutions is finally starting. I've been waiting a long time for that, and I'm pretending that you are. And in some ways as I approached this building, I thought, perhaps this could be a metaphor for a new beginning that marks this parliament. Mr. Chairman, as always, I feel privileged to address this House. My address will last about half an hour, after which I will gladly, if I agree to answer your questions, which representatives wish to ask me. Mr. Chairman, I'm afraid I have some serious things to say. If you find my openness offensive, I beg your forgiveness. I have no intention of showing disrespect to you or to this significant institution. But I am a man who likes to speak simply among friends, and I have always considered that working together on urgent and difficult issues requires that we all be clear on what task we must accomplish. But first the easy part. I thank you for inviting me to address this House in the first days of his work. This is my first address to the new state parliament, and my third address to this House in six months since I came here. 8 You will remember that for the first time I spoke here two hours after I arrived in Sarajevo on May 27th. Then, like today, I told you, and through you and the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina about the challenges ahead, what we must achieve together during the coming year. And I sent this message on the first day, not through newspapers or TV studios, but here, personally, in this room in the sovereign parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I did it for one simple reason. Because right in this House, this House will decide on the future of this country in the months and years ahead. And because you, elected Members of Parliament, are those who will decide more than anyone else about this future. One of our key tasks in the next few months is to improve the efficiency and efficiency of the state. Please, please keep on, for those who might misread this, that it is not our job to create a centralised state, but it is our job to make this country work better and above all to contribute to serving its citizens much better. And this Parliament is exactly where much of that work has to be done. If you, as members of the legislative government of the state, can join efforts to pass good, progressive laws, initiate reforms, implement real changes, and put citizens' interests first in everything you do, then there is no reason for this country not to become real, not to make real fundamental progress in the coming months and years. We've been in the past six months since I've been here. Before I came, many of the basics had already been laid thanks to the work that you and my predecessors had done. Stable currency introduced, inflation is under control, secure freedom of movement throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina, enabling refugee returns, held free and fair elections supervised by citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear MPs, these are these results in these few years after the terrible war are truly remarkable and you should be proud of them. They are the basis on which we have been working for the past six months and this is the basis on which we have based our reforms since I came here, especially reform in the first six months in terms of establishing the rule of law. Progress has also been made in this area. We have almost completed the certification process for police officers, we are continuing the process of reforming the judicial and prosecutorial system, and we have begun the process of restructureing the courts. In a few weeks, just to remind you, we will have a new state court, and by the beginning of next year, this court will have a special council to deal with cases of organised and economic crime, and in time the Court will also receive the Department of Humanitarian Law which will deal with war crimes here in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We also provide judges and prosecutors and provide them with the instruments they will need, through a new criminal law and law on criminal proceedings, which they have designed to remind you of domestic legal experts, and have audited and approved domestic judges, prosecutors and legal theorists and who are in line with modern European standards. We are the first country in the Balkans to be, who have taken this first step where we have separated those who pass the laws and enforce the laws. We've separated the politicians from the judges who carry them out. I really hope that this House will demonstrate commitment to reform by discussing and adopting the new Code of Criminal Code, it is the Code of Criminal Procedure as soon as possible and definitely in January. We have also begun to implement other key reforms, with the new Council of Ministers Act, we have begun to change the way the government works in this country. Let me give recognition to the representatives of all parties in this House who participated in 9 negotiations that resulted in this agreement. The agreement we have reached is good for BiH and has been reached between the parties of Bosnia and Herzegovina and it would not be possible for representatives of your parties in these talks to not have joined their task constructively and mainly, in good faith. A lesson can be learned from this. I can't negotiate without compromise. And you can't have deals unless people respect their word. So much has been accomplished. In the last few months, we've achieved a good pace. But there's a lot left, a lot, a lot of things to do. The news I have for you, I don't think it'll be a surprise, is that the pace must be even more determined. And this parliament is the most responsible to maintain this pace. In your hands, it is the authority to encourage the reforms that this country needs - to solve the problem of criminals, to eradicate corruption, to help entrepreneurship, to improve employment, to make growth and to raise money for vital public services. I don't think it's at all a question of whether you have that authority. You got him. The only question is, will you use it? Because there's a lot of hard work to do. We need to keep pace. We must replace the heavy burden of obstructionism with a new dynamic of progress and reform. We need to create if you want one effective mechanism in which one success will lead to another -- in which the structural reforms that are being implemented here today will result in direct results and peoples tomorrow -- good education for young people, solid income for older people, quality health care for sick and reliable safety nets for people at risk. Of course, there's another time. There's always another time. It is always possible for those who are determined in their intention to continue to be held in clans, clubs, parties and who use the political system to achieve narrow and fragmented interests. Of course, BiH's carefully balanced democratic institutions offer many opportunities for those who are prone to obstructionism. Democratic institutions always tend to do that. I was a Parliamentarian, too. Twenty years. I'm familiar with tricks. Agree with something private. Obstructing in public. Postponing, boycotting, resisting. Vote against, interfere, come out - it's not a hard game. The media will like that, of course. But citizens will sigh and turn their heads. And so will investors who this country so much, who are so much needed by this country. And they'll do that maybe even before we think those who help us with our international resources and support. They will say that nothing is changing and will go the other way and hope will die, and with it will be the last chance of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm not a graduate by nature. I try to say what I think and the way I see it. And what I'm seeing right now is a country that's running out of time, and a political system that runs out of options. So the choice is not whether to implement the reforms, but how quickly, as soon as possible, and who will lead the reform process - you or me? I don't have ladies and gentlemen monopoly on wisdom and about what's good for this country, far from it. There will always be room for compromise between us if this parliament finds reasonable and functional solutions that will encourage the reform programme. Donors and investors do not consider that the solutions imposed by the High Representative are a sustainable way of building a country in the long term. Their assistance to this country will increasingly be conditioned by the way that the BH institutions themselves, including this one, will adopt and implement reforms. I'll act if I have to. But let me be clear, let me be perfectly clear. Every time I have to use my powers, it's a system failure -- your 10 systems. My job is very simple, it's my job to get rid of my job. But at the rate that this is happening, I, not the international community, will decide on it, but you. The more you engage in reform, the less I have to do. The less you engage in reform, the more I'll have to engage. So, like I said, it's up to you to make a decision. But as far as I hope, I do, and I expect if we do this together in a partner relationship we'll have to go not only faster, but much, much faster. Governments must form as soon as possible without delay. I remind you, today is the deadline set by law for the appointment of the Council of Ministers' term of office. It is vital to form coalitions so that they can move forward with reforms that are so necessary. It is also vital that these coalitions gather around the government's programme based on "Justice and Work" and the "six seriousness tests" that I presented immediately after the elections were held. And, by the way, when I'm talking about the establishment of an organ of power, can I just say that those who are watching us here, nothing would seem to be more refreshing than the appearance of new faces, younger faces above all else and several female faces to lead this country forward in the authorities. But implementation of reforms does not only involve the rapid formation and functioning of authorities -- the BH parliaments are also involved in the process. The fact is that we will simply not be able to implement the reforms needed by this country if this state parliament meets on an ad hoc basis, just a few hours each month. Mr. Chairman, this is what we were talking about. This is your fourth session in a relatively short period of time. That's a good sign. I hope we make it through this pace. We need to transform this legislative body into an organ that will lead the reform process, which will be a driving force for change. Mr. Chairman, as I told you earlier, and I know that you agree with this, I believe that the citizens of this country want to see a significant increase in the capacity of this Parliament by your leadership and what you need and I know and what you are planning is a detailed programme of work of this Parliament based on government and draft laws that you will consider and the dates of your sessions next year. What is needed is a commission system that provides its maximum speed of work, which will conduct law reviews, analyse policy and involve experts, stakeholders and public change representatives in the parliamentary process. We need new commissions to oversee new ministries at the state level and a new commission that will work together with the Election Commission, and also with the Audit Office apply the ethical code, prevent conflict of interest, monitor the spending of public funds and safeguard the integrity of the political system. I also hope that the media here in large numbers will also see that they play a role in this, not only have access to the report on the work of this assembly under the Media Law. They need to play a constructive role in reporting the work of this congregation in a proper and comprehensive way. Progress must be announced and valuable work should be applauded and obstructions should be detected. Imagine for a moment how this parliament could be a sovereign, a modern, energetic and independent legislative body that is responsible for its voters, which is open to the media, which enjoys citizens' trust and is committed to reforms. 11 I think I am not unkind and I am not wrong to say that there are not many people in BiH who would necessarily describe today's parliament in such terms. This can be achieved, however, can be achieved if you decide to do so. And I believe it must be achieved if you do not want to be bypassed by the reform process unless you want to lose these last valuable options. Mr. Chairman, one thing is certain, you have many talents, many advantages in this country, talented people, great beauty. Huge natural resources, but you don't have one. It's time. Bosnia and Herzegovina can't wait. Take, for example, the economy. Nothing - I repeat - nothing worries me at this time from the economy of this country. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, if we don't take urgent steps now to initiate the Economy, we risk facing entry into the catastrophe of closed eyes. Let me explain: - For years this country has been on economic life support machines, and now these appliances are shutting down one by one. The foreign aid from which we became so unnecessarily dependent, but so largely addictive is already radically reduced and very soon it will no longer be fully gone, and it is not filled with foreign direct investment. Meanwhile, as you know better than me, the unemployment rate is high, growth is low, and domestic investment is almost gone. We buy more than we sell, spend more than we produce and import almost four times as much as we export. We carry a huge burden on the balance of payments deficits, whose current gaps are covered by international aid, but gradually it will disappear. I think we have very little time. Maybe two, maybe three years to convert an export-based economy. Or if we fail, the consequences for the citizens of this country can be very serious. If we fail, we will have no choice but to radically reduce imports, anything that means limiting economic activities, growing unemployment and social disorders. In that scenario, we will bring BiH's economy to bankruptcy. So the choice in front of us cannot be more fatal: economic reform or economic downturn. We'll either make this country functional or we'll have to suffer the consequences of inaction in that direction. And ordinary people, ordinary people in this country will pay the highest price. If "export and export only" is not our slogan, then "no change, no future" will be our epitaph. That is why every morning every minister from every authority in this country when drinking morning coffee must ask himself the next question _ what can I do today to improve the business environment in Bosnia and Herzegovina's better place for business. That is why every member of each assembly and every parliament should ask themselves the same question – what concrete and practical measures can be taken today to avoid this crisis, in order for more people to find work, to produce more, sell and export more importantly. The answer is ladies and gentlemen that there are a million things that can be done like the Minister of Foreign Trade and other my colleagues from the “Buldozer Commission” can confirm to you. For those who have not heard of it before, the "bulldozer commission" was established to mark and remove obstacles that stand in the way of business people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In order to hire people, make profits. So these barriers that are contained in bureaucracy, bureaucratic barriers that stop people from starting business and hiring people and creating new jobs. 12 Do not misread this message. Please don't misread it. I'm involved in the work of this committee because I believe her work is essential. But this isn't my commission. It's not a commission of the international community, it's a commission for local entrepreneurs -- it's an invitation to help domestic businessmen who are asking for your help. For this reason, Mr. Chairman, I hope that you will also allow the representatives of entrepreneurs to come here and personally present to you each of the proposed reforms of the "Buldozer Commission" and personally to you. Let me give you an example of a proposal that will come to you. It's about the cost of starting a new business. To start a business in Bosnia and Herzegovina, you must invest capital everywhere in the world. But you're going to need this kind of capital, it's something that changes not only in terms of the type of activity but also from place to place. In fact, there are three different amounts - 2,000 KM, 5,000 KM and 10,000 KM - depending on whether the company is owned by one person or more partners, and depending on whether it is registered in the Federation, Republika Srpska or Brcko. And you don't need to particularly point out, if you want your company not to be registered not only in a single entity, you have to pay twice, or three times. What a farce! Can't you, isn't there a worse destimulant to drive away foreign investors and get people out of business? Why don't you break up all this ridiculous bulldozer legislation and create a unique system in which everyone pays the same thing and, most importantly, in which everyone pays a smaller amount. And speaking of which, why don't you cut the minimum role you need so that when you team up with others, you can start your own business for anything, say 100 KM, instead of 10,000. Simple, practical, concrete measures that help citizens help themselves and help us to start an economy. There are a lot of other absurdities like this that we need to get rid of. Like, for example, the situation in the tourism industry that this country should depend on, where inspectors have the right to shut down your company without any warning in advance, just because you don't have a book of complaints to look into! Everywhere you look, there are pointless rules, regulations and laws that choke entrepreneurship and choke trade. They keep people unemployed and keep this country alive, etc. The poor. Each of these obstacles that you free yourself will bring with you tangible and concrete, reward - more new companies, more jobs, more trade, more taxes for the government and above ever more exports. Honorable MPs, if you want to know where we are, let me tell you where we are. We're where Hungary was ten years ago. If you want to know what has to be done, then that's what they did to rise from economic downturn and reach the very threshold of Europe. Now a little warning. There are some, I heard their voices which seem to believe that the answer is to slow down privatisation and to protect the old, failed industries. It's a way of thinking that belongs to the past and that belongs yesterday. But the truth is exactly the opposite. We need to speed up the privatisation, not slow it down like Hungary did. Our future will be built on small businesses and private businesses, not old industries of the past. That's what Hungary had to find out. We're gonna need a strict bankruptcy law. It will be difficult for some, and painful. I don't deny it. The only consolation is that as painful as that may be, it would be even more painful in the end if it hadn't been done. But even if we remove obstacles and level the way for new private businesses, we need to establish a more modern tax structure and facilitate trade across BiH's borders to build this unique economic space. This means abolishing the sales tax and fundamental reform of the way customs services work in this country. I cannot stress enough the importance of these two major reforms - the unification of our customs administrations and the introduction of VAT. Let me remind you if I can lose more than 1.2 billion KM -- that is, three times the amount of the state budget -- which ends in the hands of criminals every year. It's money that could and should be spent on the citizens of this country, on schools and teachers, hospitals, doctors, jobs and pensions, and shouldn't be in the hands of criminals. Because of the hopeless complexity of the tax system that has become a little bit more than a playground for criminals. The international community has made it clear that it is not truly ready to give its taxpayers money into the hands of criminals in BiH anymore. And they're right. So it's business, it's reforms that have to be done, and it's very fast. We don't have any other options. All parties have now expressed their principled support for these reforms. And very soon, the European Commission will publish its reports on what are the best ways to implement them. When done, I hope that all will be constructively engaged in detailed, technical discussions on how the new systems that we need will work. I hope, Mr. Chairman, that by the end of February, we will take this important step at the latest for the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the future of its citizens, because the goal of all these reforms is in fact only one thing: building a future for this country and building a future for its citizens and ensuring that this country becomes a modern European country ready to join modern Europe. There are some people in Bosnia and Herzegovina who do not give all this -- who see joining Europe as too far too abstract, too far away to take it seriously. Joining Europe, they say, is just another issue that the international community is constantly preaching about. But it has nothing to do with me, my family, my life with the security of my life, and I can understand why they think so. It really looks like a long shot. The European Union that we see sometimes on television screens sometimes seems very, very far away. But still, it must look far and far from Riga, Budapest and Ljubljana. And yet, last weekend at the Copenhagen summit, the promise of membership in the European Union became a reality for the citizens of each of these cities. They've been through the hard way of the reforms we're facing right now. As a result, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovenia, Slovakia, Cyprus and Malta will now take their rightful place, and will enjoy all the advantages of full membership in the world's largest political and economic club. They started where we started. They got there and so can we. But to get there, they had to work hard and do it. Their parliaments met for days and nights to bring the necessary reforms. The truth lies in the fact that these countries have not been reformed. They reformed themselves, with their own effort and their own determination and their own courage. But ask them today if it was worth the effort? And we know what their answer will be. Normally, go to Riga, or Warsaw, 14 or Budapest today, and you will see that these are places that are very different from those boring and corny capitals that Communism has left behind. So let us look back if we can look beyond the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina at the beginning of this very, most important parliament. Let us look at the example of these ten new EU member states. Reform is difficult, very difficult, but it's really worth it. It's worth working for. It's possible I have a terrible belief, it's possible to break away from the past and create a better future. Sixty years after Yalta, Europe is reunited. Seven years after Dayton, Bosnia and Herzegovina is reunited. But Europe will never truly be united until this country and this region find their place in the European Union. And as EU leaders have made it clear in Copenhagen this weekend, that is their goal. How soon that goal will become a reality, Mr. Chairman, is not up to them. It's up to you. Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6697	..for Bosnia and Herzegovina at the opening exhibition. According to the member, several of you are now scheduled to ask questions to the High Representative. I suggest that it be, that it be three MPs, and then that the High Representative answer your questions. Mrs. Miličević Ljiljana. Let Mr. Raguž prepare himself, and here's Mr. Jovanović. You can ask questions, or come for a pay phone, and ask questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6698	Gentlemen chairing your Excellency, esteemed guests, fellow MPs. I would like to thank Mr. High Representative for this exhaustive presentation and for the optimism he did through this speech. From the talk we could understand, I have to paraphrase one of the predecessors who said that Mr. Eždaun is an integral part of this body and our lives, that it's obvious that we, too, with our problems have become an integral part of his life and work. I personally belong to those people who believe that at the present time in Bosnia and Herzegovina the function of the High Representative is still necessary because of the current weaknesses in our society and still insufficient tolerance. But I am also convinced that this function and the use of authority in the coming time need to be gradually reduced in favour of decision-making in democratically elected bodies. Why? So I will read to you only one column from the BiH Constitution preamble, which I have sought to read carefully as a new MP, where it is said, starting with respect for human dignity of freedom of equality of peace, justice to tolerance and reconciliation, that democratic institutions of government and fair procedures best create peaceful relations in pluralist society, etc. So that's what led me to this announcement. The facts also suggest that lately it has been noticeable that there is a strengthening of functions in every respect. 15 My question is – does this mean that we in Bosnia and Herzegovina still haven't touched the bottom of the economic and social political crisis? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6699	I thank you, too. Mr. Martin Raguž, and let Mr. Jovanović be prepared, Mrs. Palavrić, so you will, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6700	štovati gentlemen, the chairman, honored MPs, Mr. High Representative, honored guests. In his opening speech on his arrival in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr. Eždaun said that it was not the foundation, not the roof. I find it important today to recall this statement, especially in light of the announced reforms of the identification of priorities both institutional, economic and other social, which would make this country self-sustainable. It is our opinion that the five-level arrangement of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a different entity structure, is one I would say not only inefficient, ineligible but also not only a self-sustainable model for the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think that this issue should be focused as the highest possible priority in the dialogue between you and all the institutions, and especially these two homes of this Parliament. How do you comment on this situation? And another question. Since '95, when the Dayton General Framework Peace Agreement was signed, I would say for exactly 7 years today. High Representatives, Mr Bilt, Mr Vestendorfg, Mr Petrič, here you are now, and with all the declarations that they will step up parallel with the length of the implementation of the Peace Agreement, strengthen the responsibility of local politicians institutions, that they will reduce the role of the international community, there is an absolutely opposite process. You have today, and I fully welcome it, announced the responsibility of this Parliament, its role, and I believe that in this way you will focus on the real commitment of us MPs and of this home, and we hope, we will try to help in this sense that your role is proportionate to the responsibilities of all of us here. Because this country, with all due respect to support, the roles of the international community, its institutions, the financial segment that you've given us from this present mud, can primarily be pulled out by us and only we should be able to get out. So how do you see the relationship between that proclaimed and the real in your role here? She called nice.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6701	I thank Mr. Raguž. Mrs. Palavrić Sead has her word, and then we'll ask the High Representative to answer this group of questions. No, no, you'll be in the second round I said. You and Mr. Avdić still have two more. I'll ask you to ask the questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6702	Dear colleagues, Mr. Eždaun, allow me first to congratulate you on your speech today on behalf of the SDA Club and also to notice something that no previous 16 High Representative has ever had, and I find it truly useful for this country. You're the first High Representative to tell me, not me and you. So the first man in the role of High Representative to act as a Bosanac who loves this country. Let me make one complaint and one request through two questions. First question. You recently imposed the Council of Ministers Act. In it I say, unfortunately, you did not predict the existence of the State Department of Defense. If we know that the State Department of Defence is a condition for entering a partnership for peace and then a pact and that it actually means security for this country, and that security is a necessary prerequisite for foreign investment which is once again a necessary condition for reviving the economy of this country, let me ask you why you did not impose the Ministry of Defence and when you could do so? And two. Today, in the draft agenda, we have the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We know that we do not have the House of Peoples, we know that in this law an existing high representative has foreseen a member by whom on January 1, 2003, automation will stop citizenship of every citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the diaspora in any country of the world if he has acquired the citizenship of another country. Today's proposal is to extend that deadline by 10 years. So I ask you, will you and, in fact, ask you to impose this law unless it is possible to bring it into normal parliamentary procedure? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6703	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. I call on the High Representative of Mr. Eždaun to answer questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6704	...proposed three questions and also in kind welcome words. Mr., Mrs. Miličević, I'm sorry, she said that in her opinion it would be okay for my powers to be gradually reduced. I agree with that. I said it in my speech, and I said it a few times that it was my job to get rid of my job. But let me say where Bosnia and Herzegovina is now. I think Bosnia and Herzegovina is now moving from a post-complete status to transition status in Europe. The question I'm increasingly dealing with in the Office of the High Representative is no longer about security. There are a few sad exceptions to what is currently going on in Prijedor. It's a matter of security and it's absolutely unacceptable and it should, with that end as soon as possible and anywhere that happens. However, most of the issues I am currently dealing with are not security related. These are exactly the same issues that the countries concerned in the transition of Hungary, Poland and so on. We are working on how to create a judicial system in accordance with European standards, how to establish a market-based economy. I think you're absolutely right when you say – while Bosnia and Herzegovina is turning into a transition that the Office of the High Representative should also make a transition to something that may be more normal than some kind of mission in a transition country. 17 I agree that it would take time for us to turn into something else, but what else is that, that's an interesting question. Perhaps some kind of EU standard mission in a transition country, something similar to that in Macedonia that exists afterwards in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And the question asked by Mr. Raguž is also the real question. So it's about the pace of imposing decisions. I do what I do because I have to, because this country doesn't have time. She has to go forward. The delay will kill us. But I hope that by doing more now, it will be just as Mrs Miličević said it will be necessary to do less later. And the proof that I really mean what I'm saying is that very soon in the next maybe month, we're going to announce a plan to implement the mandate for Bosnia and Herzegovina similar to that announced by the UN Mission. We will specify the specific tasks we need to perform before the Office of the High Representative turns into another structure. So I agree with the point she made. You still asked me a very difficult question. You seem to have told me if we've touched the bottom as far as social and other problems are concerned. You know, ladies and gentlemen, I believe the worst is behind us. You've traveled a fantastic miraculous distance over the past seven years. After seven years you are far beyond a terrible war than my country after 30 years. You have gone further in peace than Baskija in Spain has succeeded for more than 20 years. The problems ahead are now the conventional nature of all transition countries. If we want to get expert advice, maybe we should bring in several international officials from other countries and maybe even more people from Hungary, Poland and others to solve the problems we have, which we have. You asked if we touched the bottom as far as our citizens were concerned? The process of economic reform ahead will be painful, but if we don't implement it, it will be much, much more painful. So I don't want to pretend and say we don't have much work to do yet. We've got a lot of work to do, and I repeat, it's still the worst behind us. Mr. Raguž asked a question about Dejton. Is Dayton a real structure? We in Ireland have a joke where an Irac asks stops another Irc on the street and asks him: “Can you tell me where to go to Dublin?” And the man says: “I wouldn’t go from here” I don’t think any of us would want to go from here where we are. But Dejton, whatever he was, was the only peace that was possible to stop the war. As far as I'm concerned, I'd rather have such peace than a continuation of war. Dejton's where we are. My powers don't extend beyond Dejton. Will the BiH Constitution be changed by the dejtonski ustav? One day he will, but he won't, it won't be done on some American base ten thousand miles away from here. It will no longer be done in some secret hall of the European capital, but it will be done here in this country, you will do it when you are ready. I can't do that. I personally think these are some questions you have to deal with, questions raised by Mr. Raguž. Questions about when you can't pay for teachers, you can't pay for a doctor, you can't pay for hospitals to provide citizens with such services. Do you really want to pay bureaucrats in such a situation, politicians on several levels of bureaucratic apparatus? The questions ahead of us, the issues of economic difficulties, are questions 18 that you will have to address. However, the Constitution itself can only be you can write it, I cannot write it, nor can it be written by the international community. Mrs Palavrić was very kind and mentioned that I use the word “we”. Some people told me it was a little offensive. But I use it for certain reasons. It is precisely because I view this as a partnership and I am looking at myself here for a short period of time in Bosnia and Herzegovina as a member and a member of this country. You asked me a simple question – Why don't I impose the State Department Act? Because it's not the law I imposed, it's yours. I said specifically that we need to implement the Council of Ministers' reform. The suggestions they made were your suggestions. They weren't mine. These were the proposals negotiated by the parties. I only acted in the sense that I was operating on what you agreed. So, Mrs. Palavrić, the reason I didn't impose it is because it wasn't part of your deal. Maybe I should ask you a question - why couldn't you negotiate between parties? I think you know the answer. Let me explain. This country has a choice. Lord Robertson has made it clear what needs to be done to join NATO. NATO is a club. The club has its own rules. If you want to be a member of the club, you must comply with these rules. And let me give you a very simple suggestion. Whether it is more likely that NATO will change its rules to receive Bosnia or more likely that Bosnia and Herzegovina respects all those rules and joins NATO. You know the answer to that question. We'll have to decide whether to approach or not. If we decide that we will, then we must end the processes, if we decide not to join NATO then we will not end the processes that are needed and then the first opportunity needed to join the partnership for peace and NATO will be lost. That choice, ladies and gentlemen, is not mine. That choice is yours. As for the Law of Citizenship, Mrs Palavrić, I would much prefer that I serve this House. If you pass the Law on Citizenship in the way you want and you want me to impose that law because there is no way to meet the House of Peoples, I will go out to meet you, but I would rather say, if I can be open, I would rather you pass that law today and take a limited period until you officially establish the House of Peoples and then ratify that law. I will, of course, act in such a way as to ensure that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina do not suffer the consequences of this law producing such consequences on January 1st. And if I can be an instrument to help with that, I'll do exactly that.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6705	I thank the High Representative. We have three other registered MPs, and I suggest, if you don't mind Mr. Jovanović and Mr. Avdić and Mr. Bešlagić asking their questions, that the High Representative answer and that is how we conclude this point. 19 Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief and concrete. I will ask the question – Can imposing laws and amendments already passed in this home have a negative impact on the image of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the world and Europe? Will that perhaps have a negative impact on future investors and foreign investors? Because then they'll probably think twice about whether to invest in that country where laws are imposed, where power is disrespected, where the will of the people is not respected, where there is a danger of applying those laws. And second question – Is there possibly a danger that Bosnia and Herzegovina should be excluded from the Council of Europe because of this kind of work? Thank you very much. I thank Mr. Jovanović. Mr. Avdić. Have Mr. Bešlagić prepare himself. I'm just asking that as soon as possible we ask questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6707	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, your Excellency, the esteemed chairman, respected members of the Council of Ministers, dear guests. I also want to say that today's stay of the High Representative at the Parliamentary House is not a coincidence, but a simple step towards building a partnership with the international community and in this sense with the sitagm, a joint work on the same job, we share a certain high degree of responsibility towards the country of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm asking the next two short questions. – First of all, the work and justice of the paradigm of a reform document that has declared OHR together with the BH authorities objectively for its implementation and its realization in the coming time is necessary to ensure social peace in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, given the objective alarming state and appeal of the unions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, given the socio-economic dramatic situation and the union's appeal in Bosnia and Herzegovina, given the socio-economic dramatic situation in the Bosnian Herzegovina society, objectively how OHR sees the simple possibility of maintaining social peace in the coming months, in the next year from the aspect of simple management of social policy and response by the BIH authorities to certain contradictions simply in the privatisation process and high degree of dissatisfaction of employment, etc. etc.? The second question – We agree with... Bosnia and Herzegovina has no time to wait, Bosnia and Herzegovina needs urgent reforms and in this context I ask the question. The High Representative recently said he simply expects an additional value tax to be introduced only in early January 2005. I think that this is an extremely simple time to wait and that it is inadmissible and simply looking for urgent implementation means the Tax Act on additional value, the operationalisation of this project can be done in the coming year and in this context simply perform one of the fundamental economic reforms and move on to VAT and on the other hand simply take a step further towards the reintegration of Bosnia and Herzegovina's economic space. Thank you. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6708	I thank Mr. Avdić. Mr Bešlagić, and if you permit, we have another only registered MP after Mr Bešlagić, so that we do not deny Mr Kunić for a word, Mr Kunić and then the questions are finished and we go to the High Representative's answers, and that is how we end this part of the session. Here you go, Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6709	Dear Presidency, Mr. Eždaun, I will not express my pleasure that we have the opportunity to talk today, because we are. That's why Mr. Eždaun said that we should work together, that we should work together, and that I, in that sense, would ask a few questions and requests. Making any decision, whether or not from the High Representative, would pray first and foremost if he could consult with the base, not the base in the sense that we imagined it, but simply with the institutions that exist today in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'll set an example. One of the high officials made a decision that it would be an independent judiciary, that he should raise his salary to 3,000 marks without asking at all what means to pay for it? On the other hand, to be absurd, this independent judiciary doesn't fit the one who gives me the money. It's the same case with the police. I agree that it must be independent, but then we must find other ways and sources of funding to give the independent judiciary and the independent police the right to control, not just a commitment to cantonal levels. The other thing that Mr. Raguž said here, I think we have to face the fact, and that the High Representative certainly knows, and all those who have been so far, is that this kind of organization of government doesn't exist anywhere in the world. It is under the form of democracy going towards decentralisation and in one system it is municipalities and cantons, and in RS again centralised. However, the characteristic of this system is absolute centralisation I would say funding. And that's why we stand for Bosnia and Herzegovina as a democratic state of state law, and if it were to be respected, I would say those who are today taxing and contributing to this country. It means to the local authorities. And another question that I was very interested in as a man who was in the executive until yesterday. It's that Tuzlan canton has invested over 65 million marks in both directions for the return of refugees and displaced persons. I'm telling you that by the ways and procedures that are happening today with returnees, the attack, I would say with the bullying behavior of individuals, and not by doing anything to make these individuals stand out, but above all by investing in all means, not only by local authorities, but also by donors to Bosnia and Herzegovina. And once again, I'd just like to ask a question. You said business. How in the sense of what Mr. Avdić was saying? It should seem that the missing companies that were doing business negatively, when we have a large number of workers and I think you need to take action here to create a social programme that would have to be done first, I would say to those who find themselves because of what is called I would say bankruptcy procedure. And to tell you 21, it's not known to me so far that no bankruptcy proceedings have been completed, but it is in judicial proceedings for decision-making and duration and we are unable to resolve and bankruptcy and peace and enter new businesses. Thus, connecting new businesses is a question of how to address the issue of social care of those who remain jobless and I would say finally bankruptcy proceedings in these companies that absolutely cannot operate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6710	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. More Mr. Kunić Petar, then we will ask the High Representative to respond.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6711	The Honorable Presidency, the honourable MPs and the esteemed Mr. Eždaun. I must say that I agree mostly with your exposure, and I particularly agree with the fact that you have accepted that Dayton is the foundation of life in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's a fact that has no option at the moment. We need to know that the opposite of interest in Bosnia and Herzegovina is most difficult to combat. I think it was done by a large part of the Dayton Agreement and I just want you to stick to those words that you announced in your opening statement. Of course, Bosnia and Herzegovina is a specific state community, that it is a personification of the people and that it should certainly be guided by the interests of all three peoples living in this area. It is impossible to make decisions at the expense of any nation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I accept your exposure, so that the basic framework should be not only for a reasonable period of time, but for a long time, the Dayton Agreement, but I am the opponent of one fact, I am the opponent of making decisions by the High Representative. I even think there are weak stops in the Dayton Law-Making Agreement by the High Representative. So I think we should avoid that act in the future. I particularly support that discussion that applied that Bosnia and Herzegovina could not be a full member of the Council of Europe if it passed laws by individuals. With that in mind, I'd ask a question. How do you interpret that someone makes decisions and others are responsible for those decisions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6712	I thank the MPs who asked questions. I'd like to ask the High Representative to answer some more questions here.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6713	May I first of all thank you for your patience. I'm sorry that this is taking a little longer than your session, I'm going to try to answer these questions as quickly and directly as possible. First of all, Mr Jovanović, who referred me a direct question – Does he think that by imposing the laws we reduce the trust which is the international community and especially he said investors have in this country? 22 The answer to this question is yes! But I have to balance whether that damage is greater or less than the damage not to implement those reforms, including, of course, investors and foreign capitalists. The thing that would give foreign capital and investors more confidence is that I don't have to do it because you did it. But I regret to tell you that so far it has not been the case on many occasions. So, as I said the more you do, the less I'll work, the less you do, the more I'll have to work. And Mr. Jovanović and Kunić, let me just remind you that two issues are not controversial, because they were so long as the High Representative didn't impose license plates you wouldn't have the freedom to move in this country. So whether imposing registration plates was something that was in favour of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course it is. Did it damage BiH's reputation because the High Representative did it because you didn't. Of course it is, but it would have been worse if you hadn't done it. So I make my own decisions, I have to balance it. Let me tell you my position on these intrusions. First of all, I think my powers are legitimate when the decisions I make are made on behalf of the citizens of this country as a whole. It's not always, normally their interests aren't always the interests of their politicians. Politicians blocked license plates and currency. But you should go in favour of the citizens of this country as a whole. The second attitude I have applies when I use my powers that I don't like honestly. I'm a liberal, I don't like doing these things but another thing I think about when I use my powers. It seems to me that these powers of mine are more legitimately used to create and establish the structure of a modern European state, and less legitimately used when they are used to interfere with decisions made within these structures. In other words, it is more legitimate for me to use my powers with your help, to establish a judicial system. This is necessary for a modern state to create an economic system based on the market. It's less legitimate if I use my powers to interfere with the decisions that you make in those structures and I hope it helped. And another thing Mr. Jovanović mentioned. He asked me if it would harm membership in the Council of Europe? Not directly. The reason is because I do everything and the Law on Citizenship is in the area where we are now working on laws, related to the withdrawal of citizenship. We should negotiate and listen to the voice of the Council of Europe, we are talking about criminal laws, which you will soon consider. They were made by BiH legal experts and the legal community, but the Council of Europe has to check them out. And we'll do it thoroughly. I don't think it's hurting that process. Mr. Avdic, Mr. Avdić touched a very important issue, and Mr. Kunić touched it. Mr. Avdić would like us to have a VAT before 1 January 2005. If you make a decision to have a state-level VAT, the moment that that decision is made and it has to be. Otherwise, this country will lose major international aid. When this decision is made, it's a technical matter. The VAT should be put into office, people should be trained and you as a state parliament will be in the interest. We have to do it in such a way that the means that are now coming from the sales tax are not disturbed. Otherwise, this country will still be less able to pay the teachers or duties it should have asked before. 23 My technical advisors tell me that technical things are such that we cannot establish this functionally that we cannot introduce it before January 2005. I'm just as impatient. I told them to be faster, because I have an idea that maybe it could be done sooner, and I promise I'll work on this as fast as possible, take the minimum of 18 months until the moment that you and I make our decision. And it has to be done either in mid-year in June or January 1st. That's why I think January 1st is the best date, the fastest date I can offer you. But Mr. Avdić is absolutely right, ladies and gentlemen. I had dinner the other night with some businessmen in my house. I told them to tell me about their problems. It is a very important local company here in Sarajevo that provides production for consumption among people in BiH. They're hiring 400 people now. The manager told me because of the transport tax system and the phantom companies that are setting up and that are undermining my job and destroying me, I'm going to have to fire 200 workers. Probably in the near future. And I'm not taking any new ones until the VAT becomes functional. And when it's functional, then I'll hire more people. Unless you're ready to do something in the meantime, take that sales tax to work more efficiently so it's not actually a playground for phantom companies. Although VAT cannot be operational before 1 January, I ask you to consider whether there are amendments to bring on sales tax, e.g. in the sense of those already brought into connection with terms of tobacco products that will provide space between now and then and that will enable businesses to continue to operate effectively. I'm thinking about it, and I hope you think about it too. Another question Avdić mentioned, so again Mr Beslagic is Mr. Bešlagić and if I may, Mr. Chairman, finish here – where will we get the funds to pay the judges? You asked us to have judges, to make payments. The truth is, if the salaries were that high, maybe those judges wouldn't be on duty, they wouldn't have protection to fight corruption. How are we gonna do that? The answer is very simple. Let me remind you that the sales tax fraud that has now been discovered in the Federation, and I have no reason not to believe that this applies to the RS, has minimally lost 600 million KM that you could get into the state budget to pay these judges, teachers, hospitals, to invest in jobs, to help with the transition from old to new companies. To get that local support. So the new 600 million KM came from the amsped scandals in Republika Srpska. So that's almost three times your state budget and you want to know where to get the money you need to provide real social care. It's staring you in the face. Don't give money to criminals, don't have systems that provide playgrounds for criminals, but instead of paying your teachers, doctors, hospitals, and that you have a social protection system for endangered categories. And these are reforms, Mr. Chairman, which are essential. Mr. Chairman, thank you for your kindness. I sincerely hope that with your consent, I will be here again. If you call me, I will consider it an important duty to come and express my views and answer questions. I wish you all the best in the next period of this state Parliament. You have a great task, but I'm sure it can happen if you're determined to accomplish it. 24 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6714	On behalf of all MPs of this house, I thank the High Representative for BiH for today's opening presentation and on two occasions the answers given, the comprehensive answers to the MPs' questions. What I can say at this point is to invite all political parties, all MPs, who are an integral part of this home, to help Bosnia and Herzegovina on the path to reform. We will help, we will help best by doing what our job is, by passing the necessary reform laws in this country that he spoke of in his presentation and by the High Representative. We will help if we fulfill our information role and help by fulfilling our within regulation role. I invite you to work constructively on this road. I call for as little politicisation as possible to make all of us, all BiH citizens, all the peoples and the state of BiH better. I thank the High Representative once again. I am now taking a 15-minute break to prepare for the session to continue. Thank you very much. We haven't concluded the debate on the agenda yet. [[PAUZA]] Yeah, and someone else wants to talk about the agenda? Mr. Živković Milorad. Let Mrs. Palavrić prepare herself.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6715	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, given the SNSD Club's request for a break, I think it's the order and custom to explain this break, because we were in no way intended to complicate the work in this notice. I would like to point out here that we are not against the fourth item of the agenda of the Bill on Amendments to the Law on Citizenship of BiH and that we are aware that many citizens of BiH are coming to the situation to remain without BiH citizenship after the New Year. But we also felt that this was a good time for the fifth point we proposed to ratify the dual citizenship agreement between BiH and the SRJ to come to the agenda. Since the break lasted half an hour, the address of the High Representative slightly more and all somewhere around one and a half hours, we felt that it was enough time for these documents to come before the MPs. Since we don't see them in front of the MPs, we can assume it's two things. Namely, either the majority of parliament decided not to put this item on the agenda, which we cannot in that case vote for the proposed agenda and I want to enter the record that the point of ratification of the dual citizenship agreement between BiH and the SRJ comes at the first next session. 25 In another case, if it is to vote a point to come to the agenda, I find this unnecessary to seek further breaks and the document comes again. So, the SNSD's position that if our proposal doesn't enter this agenda, we're going to vote against this agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6716	I thank Mr. Živković. Mrs. Seada Palavrić asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6717	I want to state the position of the SDA Club, which is to support the proposed agenda. Our point of view is principled nature. We believe that today when we have not received an agreement with Yugoslavia, we are not in a position to discuss this agreement and, indeed, I am inclined to accept the SNSD Club Chief's proposal that the agreement be delivered to us for the first next session to discuss it. When I propose that principle, the same situation is also with the law that has been put on our benches today, which Mrs Hadžiahmetović has lobbyed for, because we are not in a position to read it with that in the session, if we are going to order the material for which we have come and which I think is an extremely important matter that she proposes. However, no one forbids us to schedule a session again in five or seven days and decide on those laws. So, I think we have to stick to the principle and to what the RS parties just insisted last time it was about the budget, that every act we're going to discuss here must be passed by the competent working bodies. As we see in the proposal today are the formation of permanent working bodies and we need to be able to read at least once about the material we are going to discuss because of our dignity. I say there's a need to study them, so it's more than one reading. Indeed, my psychophysical abilities are not such that at the same time I can work on the agenda that is scheduled for this session and read the law or agreement or any other material that would come to me today and make a metric statement about it. So the proposal is a proposed agenda for principled and realistic reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6718	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. Mr. Špirić Nikola is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6719	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I think all of us who care about this home being productive will agree that we do not have an American budget so that every week we have one item on the agenda. It would be good to have more agenda points and to make the House more productive at the beginning by the number of agendas and adopted laws rather than by the number of sessions held. But what's there is and I don't think it's an unexplainable situation, given all these suggestions today. I'm surprised, I'm really surprised that after insisting two or three hours ago, an agreement that doesn't pass through the legislative procedure, first and second reading, it couldn't have come from the building where we sit, if there was a goodwill and a desire to make sure that we all really care and that we adopt amendments and amendments to the law on citizenship for which I am and ratify an agreement signed by our council of ministers in Belgrade with regret that the same or similar agreement has not yet been signed in Zagreb. But if we really want to give it away, then there's a way out. Today we'll finish the constitution. It will be a session dedicated to the election of the Chair of the Council of Ministers, and the point, but with the intention of putting the ratification of this agreement on the agenda today, if all of us are sincerely willing to ratify it and then continue the session. We don't have to finish it, move on, and we both do the same thing. If he's in a good mood, there's a way out of this situation. But if there's any inconsistencies we've had in so far, then this is a good way to go today that we don't have a agenda. So, I ask you to accept that we put the agenda in place, and we can interrupt the session at that point and vote on it at the next time the MPs get it we agree, but if there really is a reservation to the agenda, then I do not believe that sincere intentions are about the concern of every citizen of BiH. The same level must be those in Croatia and Belgrade and across Europe all who have left BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6720	I thank Mr. Špirić. Is anyone else picking up? Mr. Selim Bešlagić and then Mrs. Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6721	I just want us to try to be really constructive. We've got today's tables here one material that refers to five points of international ratification. I suggest that everything he has for ratification, means these agreements with Yugoslavia, too, I don't know what else to come and let it be one of the sessions, but all that to go to that part. So here, if you looked at five ratification agreements here, all the way from '99. A year with the UN. Therefore, ratification is just a confirmation of something that has been done that we should congratulate those who have done so, and so I would ask that today's agenda be considered, possibly this solution that I don't even know about if it can be passed, because it's the one in that 105th term, and it's again one reading, in fact it's just a shorter time than I think 50% of. .. So I suggest that ratification I accept that all of this that is for ratification comes in one package and we end it, because here, today it's five and six and if there's anything else, because we didn't get that material. I, after all, support the ratification of all these agreements in one package.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6722	Okay, thank you, Mr. Bešlagić. Mrs. Hadžiahemtović asked for a word afterwards, Mr. Muratović Hasan.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6723	I thank the Chairman, you have come before you several materials that the Parliamentary Assembly should give consent to for ratification. The holder of the ratification procedure, i.e. in the procedure of the draft decision drawn up by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs through the Council of Ministers, shall refer the Bureau to the parliamentary procedure, and I propose that the competent services determine whether the Bureau has referred to the parliamentary procedure a draft decision on the ratification of the dual citizenship agreement because it may be important to decide on the agenda. That's one thing. Secondly, I am in a double role here, but I am correcting an SDS MP who at one point on the proposal to be included in the agenda of the export and import law on arms has brought this into the context of the Party for BiH. I, as an authorised promoter of the foreign trade minister, performed here with a sign that it would be placed on the agenda. The Council of Ministers laid down this in the parliamentary procedure referred to in Article 105. I'd like to ask the authorities, if they need to read article 105, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6724	I thank Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, while Mrs. Hadžiahmetović was speaking to the Secretary of the House, the draft of that decision did not arrive in parliamentary procedure from the presidency, related to the ratification of the agreement. So that's the answer that you know right now, so there's no need to check something, here's the sekretarijat, here's the secretary responsible for that part. Mr. Muratović Hasan asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6725	Dear Chairman, honourable colleagues and colleagues, I have taken a look at the list of MPs who have expressed their desire to receive wages here, to be constantly employed in Parliament and I can tell you that a large number of MPs have expressed such a wish and will probably base or have established a working relationship here. That is, therefore, the place where we work and earn salaries and given the average salary that is published today in newspapers and the maximum in Sarajevo, etc. That's a lot of good pay. We are therefore obliged to work here, not to invent a method of work that is nowhere in the world to schedule a congregation and it takes a few hours, and then it is arranged for days or weeks when the next congregation will be. The custom in parliaments, the procedure in the protractions, is that it is in the agenda when the session begins all that has reached the assembly. It is mandatory, of course, that commissions work, congregations work much more in commissions than in plenary sessions. Plenary sessions are usually held for those who will or are interested in listening to the plenary session, and are scheduled to vote on what went through the discussions in that session and through the parliamentary commissions. So, I appeal to us a little, that our college thinks and adapts our work to the usual procedures in parliaments in the world, and that there is no time spent here for days on the agenda. Everything that has come under the law and which belongs under the law of this Parliament should be on the agenda. Indeed, we are now asking for something to be delivered to us during the session, especially if it is not something very urgent, such cases are very little for Parliament, I think we should show as new MPs in Parliament that we want to change that practice to spend three-quarters of our time agreeing to the agenda. In that sense, I ask you to stop asking that what has not even arrived be included in the agenda, but that we demand that it be sent to Parliament here for a pay phone. If anyone has a proposal to send something to Parliament. So, let's put in charge that organ that is obliged to deliver it to Parliament 28. We MPs are not responsible here for something that didn't come to Parliament so we can sit here all day and see if it comes, if it will bring us here while we're sitting, etc. I ask you to adapt your work to the responsibilities we have assumed and, of course, the rewards we will receive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6726	I thank Professor Muratović. Mr. Žigić Izet answered the word, and after that, have Mr. Momčilo Novaković prepare.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6727	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will join this thinking by Mr Muratović and I would suggest very clearly to the College that everything that stands with us of those piles of paper, law and all that we have received and what remains as an obligation be put in place for the next session of the agenda, as well as this treaty of ratification of all the contracts that we have and that this is a single agenda we will first discuss and then go dot by point and end and what remains as our obligation of the previous Parliament and which will arrive in the coming period to simply end. Niko one's saying the session has to be over in one day. It may be a two-day, three-day session, it may be a break in the agenda, but it may continue on the agenda and that those 20 laws that were spoken of last session or one of the previous meetings simply come to the agenda of this assembly. At the same time, I would suggest that the College prepare us under emergency and work programme for next year, because obviously, this assembly meeting should have its own programme of work in which we will know both the meetings and all that makes it normal for a normal parliament to work. So, I'm betting that everything that stands unfinished is put on the first next session of the assembly session and that we adopt it as a agenda and we go dot by point by not skipping anything to simply finish our part of the job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6728	I thank Mr. Žigić. Mr. Novaković Momčilo, and let Mr. Lozančić Niko be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6729	Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, gentlemen of the Presidency, here is one proposal, I think, is not the opposite nor the practice that has been and probably what will be in the coming period. So it's possible for a session to be interrupted and continued the next day in two days when conditions are created, etc. Therefore, it is not contrary to the Rules of Procedure and should not be looked at in such a way. Believe that it is very difficult for us here to influence what this service is going to send into parliamentary procedure. I'm surprised the Foreign Ministry hasn't sent this agreement to the Bureau for a few months. I'm now thinking about why the ministry didn't send it to the Presidency, and when I think about it, it makes me think that we're just having these discussions here today on the right track. It's obvious someone didn't want that deal sent. Which is why he didn't want 29 I don't know that here. That's why I think it's quite correct that this agreement goes as a part of the agenda and that, unless it arrives, and it's not going to arrive, obviously, that we continue the session when conditions are created. So that is, a team before the law on citizenship that we have in the draft agenda is legitimate even when we adopt it. So the question arises at all, he is urgent and it is not disputed that he is urgent because on 31.12. he would have to, that is, be resolved, and we respect that, but he is not legitimate until he is adopted by another home he does not have, and he is certainly not going to be. That's why I see it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6730	Mr. Niko Lozančić asked for a word. I'm asking these departments to follow up on exposure a little more intensively. I don't know if it's possible to ensure the conditions that we have a stenogram for this part.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6731	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I hope the power didn't go out because I answered the word. I'll try to help bring this debate to an end. The fact is that in eight days, we have four sessions of this House of Representatives, which on the one hand is commendable, and if there is any content that we have discussed, we can't admire it too much, but that's why I have an excuse. I and today's session are seen as a continuation of the constitution of this house. So I'm experiencing it because we haven't yet established this home by the fact that we haven't yet and today we have to choose the permanent working bodies of this home. I respect the need that, even at the time of the constitution, as we have done in the past days, certain decisions, laws, etc. which we all find to be of great importance to the citizens of this country during this period, but at the same time I call upon you all, when you advocate for the Rules of Procedure to stand up for each other and not only when and how well it suits you. So the Rules of Procedure defines, among other things, that every act, decision, law, etc. which this home discusses in a specific relevant manner, the competent working body shall discuss first and foremost. I'm not sure whether it's possible or whether some of the proposals that are presented here today are possible, so I don't want to mention any of the particularly discussed working bodies, which are defined by the Rules of Procedure, but since I have no expert on the table on the discussion of these working bodies, I suppose they are not. Since I'm one of the members of the temporary working body, if his mandate is still pending, I know that we haven't discussed it on that working body either. So, we consciously, respecting the reasons for urgency over certain decisions and the law knowingly violated the Rules of Procedure of this House, I want to make that clear here. I would love to after the constitution and I think that today we should complete the process of establishing this home we respect the procedure, because then we will certainly be much less able to address the High Representative, regardless of who he was as Prime Minister, because then surely he will be in a position to make fewer decisions, and here I hope that we all want to take responsibility and make decisions like we do here. 30 I would also like to remind myself that, and I am surprised that no one mentions it today, and I think that it is important, and in a certain way and the answer to certain questions, that this is just one of the two equal homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I do not like it, nor will I ever like that from any kind of, well, maybe I will use the term used here, the political reasons being brought before the final act, or that as a representative I do not need under any excuse, for whatever, we call, a hasty procedure, to discuss anything, and especially any law that concerns the citizens who have entrusted us to decide on their behalf here. I would only like to discuss today the draft agenda that we received on the tables, for the simple reason that we are aware of all the circumstances that I am now not discussing on the extended college, at the extended college, I repeat, agree to this proposal on the agenda. All the clubs in that college had a representative and let's be correct so we respect what we arrange for these colleges, otherwise, these colleges don't make sense. I will also remind you that if I know that the Presidency of this House knows that, but all of us, the business obligation of the College is in the extended composition to determine the work plan of this House and I want the extended college to be in session as quickly as possible and that we all MPs finally have a plan of sitting at home and that we have a schedule for what we will do when and how we discuss it. What's regular, what's in the short or some other procedure. I believe that even in such circumstances, we will come into the picture that some questions are urgent and that they are not in the agenda of our session and I believe that we will all respect it together. I would suggest here that we invite all those who, in any way, influence the speed of forming this parliamentary assembly, honour their constitutional and legal obligations, because these are not only the first ones, these are also obligations and I expect the BiH Presidency to also, and if it is a little late to fulfil its constitutional obligation and appoint a mandate for the Council of Ministers and open space for us to establish power, in accordance with the results of the elections and spare, here are some of our fellow MPs that they must appear here in a double role. So, I would like to sit on this agenda today, make decisions on this agenda whatever they are, and I believe, because the most debate on this citizenship law is that there is no reason why we should not make this law for a simple reason and only one reason I appreciate that it is in the same interest of all citizens and of all peoples in BiH and I want to believe that both the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH will adopt this law on amendments and additions to the Law in the same text and that there will be no need to declare it by the High Representative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6732	I thank Mr. Lizančić. First the first deputy chairman and then Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6733	Gentlemen, distinguished guests, I would like to make a little reference to Mr. Lozančić and Mr. Žigić's statement. I did not agree with this agenda item at the College, and I believe that all the uncoordinated points of the agenda that go to Parliament will have certain consequences. We are creating a place to play some kind of political game, which is not our goal, so I would suggest and join the 31st position of Mr Žigić, that we must work here on a specific work programme, if we are to be a serious parliament. We won't, as we started, do anything about it. Why didn't I go through the emergency procedure of the citizenship law? Let citizenship be a very sensitive problem and a sensitive concept and without one wholeness of discussion about the overall nature of this problem we cannot draw certain conclusions here and put a reserve. We're looking at this law through a huge increase. On the other hand, I believe that neither the House of Nations has been established and that we do not need to go after this member, especially which cannot be declared by the Constitutional Commission, regarding a very large issue. Secondly, let the provision in the law on citizenship be that a five-year period is a very important provision in that law and you change one provision in a triple amount, in a triple number. Isn't that a little suspicious or we weren't able to predict that problem at that point, or is that problem really so high that we won't be able to solve it in 15 years. I think that I should propose that this law be withdrawn and, too, I would not accept Mrs Hadžiahmetović's law, because I consider the Council of Ministers, because I also believe that it can go into regular procedure since we have not yet established a Council.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6734	I thank Mr. Paravac. Mr. Belkić, after that, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6735	I will try to contribute to removing any doubts and mistrust when it comes to the relationship between the law on amending and supplementing the law on dual citizenship and ratification of the dual citizenship agreement between Yugoslavia and BiH. To all those who are bringing this into contact, in the sense that a political game is being played, I want to say the following. The double citizenship agreement with Yugoslavia is a consensus when it comes to its content adopted at the Bureau's session. Also, at a Council of Ministers meeting, as far as I know, why we don't have it yet. Create an inventory and study the process of ratification of the contract, the agreement in BiH, and you will see how many are in the first ones to talk about the bulldozer commission. I need you to determine where those documents are located. It's not obstruction, it's administration, it's our state administration that nobody's talking about, it's only about ministers. He's been keeping this in drawers for months. We in the Presidency have updated over a hundred contracts, with three to four years of age. I assure you that is the only reason, no one's imagination and no one's political relationship to this document. So, for what it's worth, I who sat in the presidency then and raised my hand for content, will absolutely raise my hand and for ratification. Please, don't get involved with the political game, but simply realize that our administration that is not spoken of here at all, I mean people below the level of officials, after all, have no sense of responsibility for government affairs and don't feel obliged to do it quickly, that's why believe me. Thank you very much. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6736	I thank Mr. Belkić. Mr. Lagumdžija Zlatko has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6737	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I am now speaking, to be clear, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of Rule 139 under c) and then I will speak in the context of other members of the Rules of Procedure. I want to make a difference between three points of the agenda. One point on the agenda was under point 4 of the Council of Ministers' request to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Citizenship under Article 105. Rules of Procedure. That's one thing. As far as the agenda is concerned, whatever we vote on is on the agenda in accordance with Rule 105 of the Rules of Procedure on a proposal from the Council of Ministers to follow Article 105. The second thing is, when Dom gets to this point, it will be stated whether she accepts to be a member of 105th, so if Dom, this is all what counterpart Novaković and others were talking about at the moment when we get to point 4. The home can, for reasons that have been highlighted here, say it does not accept that it goes according to Article 105, and then it goes into slow procedure. So now that we're forging the agenda, we're still in the agenda phase, point 4, we have on the agenda according to our rules of procedure. I repeat, the second thing that can happen is that we don't accept it as an article 105, and that can only happen when we get to such a 4 is one thing. Secondly, on a similar note, there is also a proposal from Minister Hadžiahmetović in the capacity that she has under Article 139 e) when the Council of Ministers asks that something be included in the agenda, then put it on the agenda, and since it is sent by article 105, then it is in the agenda, in other words, and what the Minister asked for, too, according to the Rules of Procedure, is in the agenda and the other thing is when we come to that point of the agenda we can say we do not accept that it is by Article 105, with all the argument that is going on then. That's another thing. The third thing concerns what counterpart Belkić spoke of, or ratification of a dual citizenship agreement between BiH and Yugoslavia. Assuming that we want to put it on the agenda today, there is a order of moves defined by the Law on the ratification of international agreements and agreements. Under the law, the Council of Ministers should make a proposal for a decision on ratification of the presidency. The Council of Ministers didn't do it. In order for the Council of Ministers to do so, the Council of Ministers must have a draft decision at the meeting of the Council of Ministers to be delivered to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The foreign ministry did not deliver a draft ratification decision to the Council of Ministers. The foreign ministry is delivering a draft decision on ratification, after the ministry it has signed and the holder is therefore receiving, to be clear, a contract diskette, or a dual citizenship agreement in the form in which it is signed. The foreign ministry has not yet received a diskette with the text of a dual citizenship agreement signed. How could this happen now, we can also go along with this in the context of what Belkić, a fellow member of the Bureau, said at the time that I should be very clear. Let me remind you, unlike counterpart Belkić, not unlike otherwise, we may not have had a good understanding, I do not believe that this agreement can be ratified even if we have done all of this 33 without a previous change in the corresponding dual citizenship treaty, which transfers as a minimum assumption, by 31.12.2003. for 31.12.2013. So, to be very clear, here's Mr. Novaković that today is before us, that this whole procedure that has its course, let's say that it's over which it's not, even if it's over to be open to each other, the wrong order of moves is. Ratification of the BiH-Yugoslavia dual citizenship contract before we have settled our basic citizenship treaty properly. So, what's the turn of the move. The turn of the move is the first thing that's in front of us today. Then it's just a ratification. What are we doing here now if we stay in positions where we are now objectively opposed, which will lead us to the fact that the law on citizenship is not changed and that there is no ratified agreement. Where are we then? In that case, we have wronged all those who are dual citizens and Yugoslavia and BiH and those who are citizens of BiH and any other state. In other words, if someone wants to help the citizens of BiH, who are citizens of a particular country, is it Croatia, Australia, Yugoslavia, kipar or I don't know which, completely irrelevant in a specific case, it is completely irrelevant whether we have a dual citizenship agreement. It is important that we stop them from the problem that on the 31st 12th day of automation they become so questionable citizens of BiH, no matter what state they are in. In other words, if someone wants to help the citizens of BiH who are in one of the states outside BiH in part, he helps those citizens by adopting item 4 today and voting for and on it as a member of 105th for and accepting for and after this all the rest goes. So, order of moves, to be clear is next. To change the Law on Citizenship of BiH, so to regulate at least basic relations between us, relations between us and then go to ratification and signing. It may happen tomorrow, if someone else says we have now in the process of bringing an end to the alignment of the dual citizenship agreement with the Republic of Croatia, it is near the end, tomorrow someone can say that it brings about the dual citizenship agreement with Yugoslavia, can say not to say that they will, but we do it all unnecessaryly. What matters, and that's to solve what's on point four right now, and that's just as per Rule 105 of our Rules of Procedure. Everything else leads us to commit injustice to all our citizens, whether at that time they are citizens and Yugoslavia or both Croatia or Australia or New Zealand. Therefore, I appeal to you, in accordance with Rules of Procedure 139.c) so, as foreign minister, who has the right to intervene in the discussion to ask that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, this all be carried out until the end and then when we come to an appropriate point of the agenda, that we then discuss and plead as we wish. But I beg you once again to be reasonable
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6738	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not really clear right now. Mr. Belkić says the agreement was with them that it was adopted and that it was an envious one of the bureaucrats in the drawer. Mr. Lagumdžija says it wasn't adopted at the Council of Ministers. I may not be familiar with that procedure alone, but there's a reality here. Whether the agreement has been adopted in the appropriate place or not. I have no reason not to believe you, but what Mr. Lagumdžija was saying disagrees with your story. Thank you very much. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6739	Thank you. Mr. Lagumdžija has, these are the answers to the replica now.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6740	Mr. Jovanović, I apologize if I was imprecise. You'll see by seeing the manetogram that I was inaccurate, and perhaps we didn't pay good attention. There are two things. One is the signing of a contract, i.e. a dual citizenship agreement which has its course, and this has been completed and the other is a decision on the ratification of the agreement and the agreement takes effect not on the date of signature but on the date of ratification by both homes of this Parliament. So the agreement is not disputed and he's signed and he's perfectly fine. It's all over. The complete procedure has been completed and signed, on the other hand, the decision to ratify it makes it valid. The ratification decision is what I was talking about and Mr. Bekić has made it clear that the agreement has ended and it has been completely ended in a peaceful, normal tolerance atmosphere and in the Council of Ministers unanimously as well as everything that follows.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6741	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. I pray we report once when it comes to the agenda, but not three or four times, but here's Mr. Špirić asking for a word. Here you go. I think we can make all the suggestions we have for one day.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6742	That would be logical, Mr. Chairman, if it weren't for the debate, and that's why MPs are calling to explain to each other to find a solution. Ladies and gentlemen, on September 23rd, the Council of Ministers ended this law, so when it was called together by both the BiH Parliament's home. Once, I must be honest with you, not once, the chairman of the Council of Ministers has called on any House of Speakers or the College, so knowing about the situation like we have done a thousand times or ten times, it is therefore possible to do so with the old assembly of Parliament without a single problem so that BiH citizens are in a position to use benefits related to dual citizenship agreements, it is irrelevant whether with Sweden, Norway, Britain, Yugoslavia, Croatia and so on. So it wasn't done. It wasn't used. It speaks of how the BiH institutions' bodies work and now to say further. It is not disputed here to bring amendments and additions to the law in the interest of BiH citizens. So it's not disputed that it's a base document, but it's controversial that something that, too, is important for this country. The largest number of BiH citizens is in Yugoslavia and Croatia. Biggest, we have a final agreement, and we're looking for a bogeyman revolution to get MPs an agreement that was designed to adopt it so that ordinary mortals could use the first one to give him dual citizenship by New Year's. Who do we fake in this country? Who needs to be explained to? That's why we're looking at the same plane without defiance. I know that people in Sweden, Norway are waiting even in Serbia. Why not the same plane. Who can trust whom to remember and remove the contract from the drawer and give it to the presidency. Who can we trust says once I raise my hand I want my mother another time. Why would they do that in Parliament? Why don't we adopt that as a part of the agenda, move on, so 35 stop the session and adopt both. If we are honest that it is important, and I agree that an initial document is important to amend and supplement the law that bilateral agreements concerning dual citizenship are important. So, it was verified by the Presidency and the Council of Ministers and I don't know what further procedure is, but I don't think it's written anywhere that this agreement should lie in someone's drawer to outwit itself. Just remember, please, when the Minister of Civil Affairs and Communications Svetozar Mihajlović signed the contract in Belgrade, then there were already promises he won't be able to do, and here we are in a situation of five to 12. To whom do we defy those who are in Belgrade and those who are in Sweden and those who are in Zagreb and those who are across Europe or across European countries? So please, there's a solution, don't go to night. The solution is both on the agenda. A decision to vote for both. That's my attitude and I will, of course, stick to my personal attitude. So I don't argue that I shouldn't. But if someone could explain to me that this is basic, and that later on, I'd have the opportunity to see this debate in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6743	Please nice, I'm going to interrupt the debate on this agenda at the moment. I mean, really, no more need, I want to tell you some things I'm telling you that you know how they are doing business and that we know how we're going to treat this and then we're going to go, because, really, it doesn't make any more sense this is already more a pseudo debate about the essence rather than a debate on the agenda. Please nicely, to all those who have wondered why this law today on the agenda, I will read the provision of Article 105. Rules of Procedure. Article 1 The Rules of Procedure say, "When it makes a proposal for a high degree of urgency or a bill that is not so complex that it can only be adopted or rejected completely, the Proposer can ask the House to consider it in writing in a single reading." The Council of Ministers has asked for it from this home. Article 2 of the same article says: "The request from the previous point is submitted directly to the House at its first next session. The home will decide on the request after the debate and we have actually discussed what is practically on the agenda. This is the only law on December 12th. was in the procedure in this home under Article 105. No other law on December 12th when an invitation was signed for today's Parliament's session was proposed under this procedure. Yesterday, a parliamentary procedure, yesterday during the day, was immediately ordered to deliver it to the MPs, which concerns Mrs Hadžiahmetović. The MPs didn't get it until today. They got it today in envelopes on the table. Therefore, it is my obligation as chairman, not the College, but me as chairman, to put that law on the agenda at the first next session. So, the law on amendments and amendments to the law on citizenship and that is to meet my business obligations. As soon as I've been elected to this job, the first question I've raised to the secretary is the question of the state of the law and the phase in which the laws are at stake in the procedure. When we talked about the laws under article 105, the answer was the only law that was under article 105 is this law, and that's why he's at this session on the agenda today. 36 Please be nice. As MPs, you have the right and opportunity, when any item of the agenda is discussed, to say what you think, although you are many things you have already said in determining the agenda and you have the right to vote the way you think you should vote. That's an explanation. As far as this whole debate is concerned, so no one's right will be denied. Everyone, therefore, has the right to vote the way he thinks he should vote essentially. We will vote when it comes to the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Citizenship on whether the law will go in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 105 or not. That's what the agenda is called. If we plead yes, then we'll vote once again on the law. If Dom doesn't adopt that proposal, then the law goes into regular procedure. These are business provisions, and please let's get to work. I'm reading today. I'm listening to your suggestions. The agenda, according to the Rules of Procedure of this House, has been adopted unless there are any objections to the agenda. And what are the remarks on the agenda? The remarks on the agenda are new proposals on the agenda or suggestions to take something off the agenda I have not heard today any proposal from any MPs to take something off the agenda but I have heard two new proposals. I heard a proposal from a group of SNSD and SDS MPs to include a ratification of the dual citizenship agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Yugoslavia in the agenda. Please, I would like to inform you that in this home, an agreement on citizenship between BiH and Yugoslavia has not arrived, nor has the proposal for a decision by the competent state authorities on the ratification of the agreement arrived, and I cannot put on the agenda something that has not arrived in this house. The rule of this House will be that all laws that come into parliamentary procedure come here for a public session. They come here for a public session to discuss everything that comes into the process as soon as business conditions are obtained, or deadlines prescribed by this Rules of Procedure. That, in my opinion, is the only possible way to work. There is this second proposal presented by Mrs Hadžiahmetović, but which came after the session was scheduled and today is here before you MPs. That's why I'm suggesting we get to work. Yeah, I just don't have anything to put to the vote. If you think I have something to say. Please, I do not have any new proposals that are in line with the Rules of Procedure, which may be put on the agenda in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. How can I put on the agenda something that didn't come to Parliament please explain to me. I just want to say that you know. And when the agenda points are debated, go ahead, plead, argue according to the Posovnik. You're looking for another word after this. Mr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6744	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I mentioned, at the beginning of my discussion, Article 50, in which it is said hereditaryly that at the beginning of the session, I could propose a new item of the agenda and it is in the Rules of Procedure. The second thing is whether it's technically possible to put that agenda item on today, but I also can't agree with you that you don't have a chance to do it. There's a possibility, but there's obviously no good will. 37 In fact, it is possible to do those things that we have already negotiated, and these are commissions that Mr. Niko Lozančić mentioned and then interrupt the session and that the rest of the agendas when opportunities are realized, along with this agenda point that I propose we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6745	Please, nice. I want to warn you again about the Rules of Procedure. I have nothing like the chairman to put to the vote. The only proposal we are proposed to put to the vote is a proposal for a ratification agreement, is a ratification of a dual citizenship agreement between BiH and Yugoslavia that parliament did not get at the moment, and here's the expert service let them say this one more time. He's not in Parliament. That's what all people said and I can't put that thing to a vote. The second proposal proposed by Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović to go per member... I do not know at this time, therefore, is difficult to interpret in business, at the time I signed the call for today's session and when the points under Article 105 of that law were not included in the parliamentary procedure. He came yesterday and was delivered to the MPs. I think we should, right now, tell you what I think and I'll join Mrs Palavrić's opinion that we should leave the possibility to the MPs for at least one day - two days - three days to read that text of 15. - 16 members. I've already looked at it so then it must definitely go to the first next session because it came between sessions. I don't have a proposal to take off the agenda. No Niko suggested taking down any agenda points. And, I, simply as chairman, agree that today's session agenda is, therefore, except for the address of the High Representative for Verification of the minutes from the constitutional session and the minutes of the 2nd session of the House of Representatives, the selection of members of the Permanent Committees of the Representatives' House, the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the amendment of the Law on Citizenship of BiH under Article 105. Rules of Procedure and request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Control of the Quality of Certain Products on Import and Export pursuant to Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I'm just saying that because the agenda, according to our Rules of Procedure, doesn't vote. Here you are, Mr. Špirić, a business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6746	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, it seems that we are bringing the debate to an end and that, in the end, as in any Parliament, the democratic means will be to raise, to declare MPs on all proposals. It is not true that the MP cannot propose a item of the agenda and when the debate is opened, it can be determined whether there are conditions, whether there are no conditions, whether it will be postponed, whether the session will result in the end of that period or not. I've never heard of these rules you're offering. It's possible in this country that everyone says is specific and unnatural and it's natural, but since you're all practicing, this is called exercise. It won't surprise me, but I ask you to put what the delegates have proposed as a part of the agenda to make a statement. What's wrong with someone? Is there a greater and more democratic right? It's a matter of an MP saying yes and against. But don't interpret he hasn't got that yet. If that right doesn't have to go home and sit and do a more useful job. Thank you. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6747	Mr. Špirić, you don't really need to educate me on the Rules of Procedure of this House. However, I thank you, of course, for that. I'm an MP in this House for the third year, and I think I know something from this Rules of Procedure and I prefer you to have a business decree that you've been talking about, but here, I thank you. I just want to say that, explain to me how something can be put to the vote that didn't take place in the parliamentary procedure, but if you are asking after my warning, to vote on it, Mr Špirić. No problem, it's your right. I just wanted to tell you that we just don't have conditions. But if you're looking beyond the conditions to vote on something, then of course, we'll be democratic and we'll make it clear. There's no problem. Who's up for Mr. Špirić's suggestion? So, Mr. Živković, I apologize that an agreement on ratification is put on the agenda that the decision to ratify BiH-Yugoslavia's dual citizenship agreement is put on the agenda, and if we are not, I have to say, we did not get into parliamentary procedure. Who's that? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Voting results are as follows: 38 MPs are present – 11 voted in favour – against 22 – abstentions 4. The proposal didn't get the necessary majority. I find that since we have not established the agenda of today's session, we are moving practically to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. Verification of the minutes from the constitutional session and the minutes of the 2nd session of the House of Representatives I am opening a debate on these minutes. Anybody want to talk? If no one wants to talk, I'm closing the argument. We're moving on to a session statement. Who is it to adopt the minutes of the constitutional session of the Representative's House? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? So, one MP came out in the meantime as far as I know, ma'am, so he wasn't 38 present Mr. Lagumdžija left the O.R. I apologize for mentioning the name, but I saw it. So, 37 present. Is that what you were counting on? 38 MPs are present. We have a warning. 37 voted yes. It wasn't against no abstentions. I understand we've adopted the record from the constitutive session. We're moving to a plea regarding the prisoner from the 2nd session of the House of Representatives. Who's for the record? Who's against the record? Is there anyone who can hold it? Thank you. 38 present - 38 for. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I also find that we have adopted a record of the 2nd session of the House of Representatives. 39 We move to the 3rd point of the agenda. Ad.2. The election of members of the Permanent Committees of the House of Representatives Ladies and gentlemen MPs, according to our Rules of Procedure at the moment, the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has the following permanent committees, which are: 1. Constitutional and Legal Commission 2. Commission for Foreign Affairs 3. Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs 4. Commission on Finance and Budget 5. The Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum 6. Commission for Transport and Communications 7. Administrative Commission and 8. The Committee for Gender Equality in BiH, I say, is at the moment the state of the permanent parliamentary committees according to the Business House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At this point, it is quite certain that we will have to form other permanent working bodies in the coming period. I just want to draw your attention to the need for the establishment of the Committee on Ethics, which was spoken by the High Representative today at this session, I would like to draw your attention to the need for the establishment of the Supervisory Board for, or the Committee for the Control of the work of the Agency for Information and Protection of BiH, with the short term called SIPA and, of course, there will be a need for the formation of other working bodies. I also want you to know that there are parliamentary delegations that make contact on behalf of this Parliament with parliaments of other countries, i.e. with international associations such as the Council of Europe, such as the NATO Pact, the OSCE and the Interparliamentary Union. The composition of these delegations will be established after the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly is established, because they are delegations of the BiH Parliament, or the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and they are participated by the MPs of both homes. What has become a condition for this Parliament's constitution today is, therefore, the formation of these permanent commissions that I have listed. On the 12th of this month, we had a meeting of the Expansive College, the chairman, vice-president and club presidents, and we agreed on a proposal that you received today at the tables. So, this is a concerted proposal from the colleges in close line with the presidents of political parties' clubs. I'm opening a debate. Here you go. Mr. Selim Bešlagić is asking for a word. Here you go, Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6748	Let's just say that what I think I need to emphasize as a human being, it doesn't make sense for me not to have an ex in the Foreign Affairs Commission, I'd say the foreign minister of 40 dogs, and that seems to me to be one illogical, which can be interpreted in different ways. I just want to point out that they are respected by the number of places in this place, but I think Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija should still be in the Foreign Affairs Commission and in the Finance Commission to get someone more professional. But it is up to you to decide.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6749	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Đedović. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6750	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to remind you of one scene of an identical nature two years ago when we had MPs in three committees at this stage of body-building that you were talking about. When they're next, it'll be fourth, fifth, sixth, etc. depending on which political option it belongs and on the other hand we will have MPs who remain with one and I guess what it must be given. I want to draw attention and believe it won't be. The story was it wasn't gonna be two years ago, but it was. That's why I can't accept this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6751	I thank Mr. Đedović. Who else wants to talk? If no one is answering for a word, I would like to conclude the debate and ask you, therefore, to proceed with a plea and ask you to support this proposal because this proposal reflects all possible structures that must be respected and respected under the Constitution. It wasn't easy to come to this proposal. A lot of combinations have been made. People sitting in college sitting here and they know it very well, they are representatives of political parties. We also took care of what we heard here today in the debate as an objection to this composition, but believe me, at this point, the different composition of these commissions couldn't be achieved. We're moving on to a commission statement. Who is it that in constitutional law they make gentlemen: 1. Mirsad Ćeman, 2. Sead Palavrić, 3. Nijaz Duraković, 4.. Martin Raguž 5. Niko Lozančić, 6.. Beriz Belkić, 7. Petar, Kunić / 8 Borislav Paravac, 9. Tihomir Gligorić, with a recommendation at home, because the Commission chooses the president, with a recommendation from the House and the College that the president of this commission be Mr Mirsad Ćeman. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? - 1 v. Are there any abstentions? - 1 abstention. 41 Tell me just how much it is for. 37 present - 35 for – 1 v – 1 abstention. I also find that we have an entity majority and that we have been chosen by the Constitutional and Legal Committee with this recommendation. We're moving on to another commission. The Foreign Affairs Commission when it is therefore to give Mr 1. Martin Raguž, 2. Sead Palavrić, 3. Izet Hadžić, 4. Azra Hadžiahmetović, 5. Vinko Zorić, 6. Sead Avdić, 7. Milorad, Živković / 8 Nenad Mišić and 9. Jelina Đurković is members of the Foreign Affairs Commission with the recommendation of this home, the College and this home to make Martin Raguž the chairman of this commission. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? The abstentions? Tell me the results. 33 for – 3 against – 1 abstention. I also find that we have an entity majority and that the Foreign Affairs Commission has been elected as I read it. Who is to make the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs the following gentlemen: 1. Petar Kunić, 2. Momčilo Novaković, 3. Nikola Kragulj, 4. Hasan Muratović, 5. Fatima Leho, 6. Azra Hadžiahmetović, 7. Filip, Andrić / 8 Mladen Potočnik and 9. Ibrahim Đedović, with a recommendation from the College and Home that Petar Kunić be the chairman of the commission. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Are there any abstentions? 35 for – 1 against – 1 abstention. I find that we have both in this majority and entity majority and that we have chosen this committee with this recommendation. When it's to give the gentlemen: 1. Nikola Špirić, 2. Abdulah Nakaš, 3. Fatima Leho, 4. Hazim Felić, 5. Beriz Belkić, 6. Filip Andrić, 7. Zlatko Lagumdžija, 42. Ljiljana Miličević 9. Mirko Blagojević will become members of the Commission for Finance and Budget, with a recommendation from the College and the House that Mr Nikola Špirić will be the chairman of the commission. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Abstained? Thank you. 35 for – 1 against – 1 abstention. I also find that we have an entity majority and that we have chosen the Finance and Budget Commission with this recommendation. When it's to give the gentlemen: 1. Elmir Jahić, 2. Nadžida Mlaćo, 3. Munib Jusufović, 4. Bariša Čolak, 5. Martin Raguž, 6. Tihomir Gligorić, 7. Miloš I’m a Lover of Jovanović, ” 5 / 8 Selim Bešlagić and 9. Muhamed Altić biti members of the Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum with the recommendation of the College and with the recommendation of home that the chairman of this commission be Mr Elmir Jahić. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Abstained? Thank you. 35 for – 1 against – 1 abstention. I find that in this majority, there is a majority and that in this existing majority we have both an entity majority and that we have chosen the Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum with this recommendation and in terms of how I read it. I ask you who's in favor of gentlemen: 1. Miloš Jovanović, 2. Milorad Živković, 3. Nenad Mišić, 4. Izet Hadžić, 5. Selim Bešlagić, 6. Adem Huskić, 7. Bariša What Is It? Čolak? 8 / 8 Ivo Lozančić, 9. Muhamed Morankić is becoming members of the Transport and Communications Commission with the recommendation of the College and Dom that Miloš Jovanović be the chairman of the commission. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Abstained? Thank you. 35 for – 1 against – 1 abstention. I also find that we have a majority of which is the entity majority and that we have chosen this committee with that recommendation. I'm asking you who it is to take gentlemen: 43 1. Izet Žigić, 2. Šefik Džaferović, 3. Hazim Felić, 4. Jozo Križanović, 5. Vinko Zorić, 6. Niko Lozančić, 7. Momčilo What Is It? Novaković? 8 / 8 Mirko Blagojević and 9. Nikola Kragulj makes the Administrative Commission of this House, with the recommendation of the College and the House that Mr. Izet Žigić will be the chairman of this commission. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Abstained? Thank you. I find 38 people present – 36 for – 1 against – 1 abstention. I find that we have a majority where the entity majority is present and that we have chosen with that recommendation and the Administrative Commission. And, in the end, I ask you who it is to keep the gentlemen: 1. Jozo Križanović, 2. Abdulah Nakaš, 3. Sead Palavrić, 4. Nijaz Duraković, 5.. Jelina Đurković, 6. Ljiljana Miličević, 7. Azra Hadžiahmetović, 8 / 8 Ivo Lozančić and 9. Nadžid Mlaćo biti members of the Commission for Gender Equality in BiH with a recommendation that the Commission president be Mr Jozo Križanović. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Abstained? Thank you. 38 present – 36 for – 1 versus – 1 abstentioned. I also find that we have chosen this committee to establish gender equality in BiH that we have both a general and an entity majority in the general majority. In this way we ladies and gentlemen MPs have exhausted the agenda point of selecting members of the Permanent Committees of the House of Representatives. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.3. The request of the Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Citizenship of BiH pursuant to Article 105. I'm opening a hearing with the Rules of Procedure. Although we've talked a lot about setting the agenda on this issue. Does anyone want to talk? I'm finishing my dispersion. We're moving on to a plea. I ask you who is to accept the Council of Ministers' request to consider the draft law amending the BiH Citizenship Act under Article 105. Rules of Procedure. 44 Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Are there any abstentions? So we have 38 total attendance – 27 is for – 10 is against and 1 is contained. We need to move to a statement by entity. I'm asking the Federation MPs who's in favour. Thank you, Federation MPs. I ask the MPs of the RS who's in favour? I find that 25 MPs voted from the Federation of BiH and that Republika Srpska voted for 2 and I agree that we have an entity majority from the Federation and that we do not have an entity majority from Republika Srpska, because two MPs voted and the entity majority is required from the RS at least 5 MPs and the law, i.e. this procedure of this law should go to the College. So here's what I'm saying: The College has been discussing this issue itself during the session, and here's what I want you to know right now, so there's no agreement between a member of the College, the first vice-president, and there's not going to be that agreement. I find that the College has not reached agreement on this matter, and here I am informing this house about it, and we now have to move on to the second stage of the plea and the second stage of the plea to the Rules of Procedure is this. Now, therefore, it is necessary that two-thirds of the MPs are not against and then it can be considered that the law is incorporated or not on the agenda, depending on what the results of the vote are. We're going after the entities. Isn't that right, Secretary?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6752	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-12-17-0.u6753	I'm asking the Federation MPs who are against this law to consider 105. Who's against the Federation? Thank you. The Federation doesn't mind. Right? I ask the MPs of the RS who is against it? How much does he mind? So in this second round of pleas, we have the next situation. The Federation doesn't mind the law being discussed under Article 105. We have 11 against from Republika Srpska. That's more than two-thirds, and I'm guessing this emergency procedure in article 105 didn't go through. The rules of procedure of this house and that the law goes into a regular parliamentary procedure. We're going to the next item on the agenda. 45 A.4. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Law on the Control of the Quality of Certain Products on Import and Export pursuant to Article 104. Rules of Procedure You know it's a shortened procedure that actually shortens half the deadlines set out in the Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate over this procedure. If no one answers the word, I'll close the argument. We're moving on to a plea. Who is it that this law is considered in accordance with Article 104? Rules of Procedure. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. Are there any abstentions? I find that Parliament, with 38 votes to- without votes against and without abstentions, has accepted the Council of Ministers' request to consider the proposal for a law on the quality control of certain products on imports and exports under Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, therefore, by a brief procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is how we've exhausted how much I see today's session agenda. I am concluding the work of the 4th session of the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I call on the commission, we have not yet completed the work. We did finish the session but we didn't finish working here today in this building. I call on the committees we have chosen according to the next schedule to immediately, after this session without a break, appear at the sessions and in the hall 2/II to carry out the constitutive sessions commission is 10 minutes' work and the story is finished. In Hall 2/II of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, the Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum, the Commission for Gender Equality. The committees will be chaired by me until the constitution. Then, in the cabinet, please nice 210/II Commission on Foreign Affairs, Administrative Commission, Commission on Transport and Communications. The commissions will be chaired by the first deputy chairman of Borislav Paravac's home. We, therefore, have made recommendations on who will be chairman, but here we formally need to appear before it is even Hall 3/II I call on the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, the Commission for Finance and Budget. The committees will be chaired by the second deputy chairman, Mr Bariša Čolak. I'll finish my part of the job quickly, right at... Thank you very much. See you later, I hope again until New Year's. The session was finished at 3:40.
