ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3033	Dear delegates, distinguished representatives of information funds, esteemed guests, I am opening the 25th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, you have received a proposal for the agenda, but before we move to a debate on the agenda, I would like to inform you that today's session is attended by three delegates from the Croatian people, noting that Mr. Živković will join us quickly, five delegates from the Bosniak people and five delegates from the Serb people, which means we have a quorum that we can make full and full decisions, and I want to inform you that Mr. Niko Sušac has announced his rightful absence. The College of the House of Peoples, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, proposed the next agenda for today's session 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 24th session of the House of Peoples, 2nd. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Bosnia and Herzegovina Air Force Act, second reading, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 3. Declaration by the People's House on the reports of the Joint Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the achievement of an agreement in the same text (a) of the Law on concessions, (b) the Law on Administration and (c) the Law on Veterinary of BiH, 4. Report from the Commission from the Nationals' College on reaching agreement on the Law on the City of Sarajevo, the capital, 5. Proposal for a law on cooperatives, second reading, legislators Nikola Špirić, Ilija Šimić, Sejfudin Tokić, 6. Ratification of the Convention on Biological Variety Rio de Geniero Convention on 5 July 1992 7. Ratification of the Treaty on the control of desertification in countries affected by severe droughts, 8 / 8 Ratification of the Development Credit Agreement Crude Waste Management Project between BiH and the International Development Association, 9. The decision to determine printing transactions of state interest, proposed by delegate Sejfudin Tokić. 2 Ladies and gentlemen, the College of the House of Peoples, calling today's session, felt that today would be a good time for this to be the last session as it would be and that it would result first and foremost in the adoption of important legal projects of interest for the BiH state. These are the Law on concessions, the Law on Administration, the Law on Veterinary, amendments and additions to the Aviation Act. So I ask you, all individually, to make our contribution so that, of course, we can conclude this session with a proper cocktail. Here I call on representatives of public information who have faithfully followed and consistently reported from these meetings all our guests attending today's meeting of the House of Peoples to pay tribute, to serve, then to all our tasks. Those who run a pre-election campaign to continue, of course we congratulate each other in advance on what awaits us on October 5th and beyond. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Ivo Divković, then Mr. Ibro Spahić please.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3034	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that at the last 24th session of this House, we have reached one conclusion that has bound this house to discuss in today's session the information on events at Arizona market related to land expropriation by the Brcko District. We agreed then and it came to the conclusion that until this session information was delivered from the authority of the Brcko District and from the Council of Ministers, if the Council of Ministers considers it necessary to write some of its information. From the information I have, which I received this morning coming to this Parliament of information from the authority of the Brcko District that was delivered. So there are all the necessary preconditions to discuss this today. So I suggest that this agenda point which is the conclusion of this home from last session be placed in this agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3035	I thank Mr. Ivo Divković. I just want to inform you that we have forwarded the conclusions of the House of Peoples from last session to the Council of Ministers of the Brcko District and the governments of the entities, that we did not receive any information just before the meeting today. I have information that the Council of Ministers held this as a second point at today's session and that the information is in the Parliamentary Assembly, I don't know if all the delegates have come. I don't mind Mr. Divkovic defining the agenda point, so, of course, as appropriate to the House of Peoples, we'll make a statement, whether we accept it to be the last item of the agenda or not. 3 For the word was answered, Mr Ibrahim Spahić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3036	Madam Chairman, fellow delegates, representatives of the Council of Ministers and Guests, citizens involved in Arizona's problem, would like to fully support Mr Ivo Divković's proposal to put this into place, not at the last point of the agenda, but to take a break so that we do not immediately end up at cocktails and get that information and, as agreed, to clarify it immediately. Because in the meantime, there have been really inappropriate relations between authorities and citizens on that ground, and I have repeatedly visited that area and I must say that it is absolutely unacceptable and that there are no discrepancies between the information that has arrived in Parliament and the delegates. The delegates are here and the service can share it with them within five minutes. I'd like to get it right away and discuss it at the beginning. First thing. The second thing, when it comes to the obligations and the minutes of the 24th session, is evident that the session on the agenda due to the absence of Ms Azra Hadžiahmetović, the foreign trade minister at the BiH Council, was told after the statement that she would submit oral information based on the interpretation I gave almost six months ago and supported by this house. In light of the fact that the interpretation is a document required by the BiH Parliament's Rules of Procedure, it is therefore not a document that can be placed and downloaded on the agenda. This cannot be subject to consent “yes” or “no” of the college itself whether they will put something or not on the agenda and when they will put it. I would ask, given that there is Mr. Aljoša Čampara here, who, as far as I know, is the only of you three lawyers, and there is the duty of the secretary to make it quite clear, not to interpret the Poslonik, but to clearly determine a position that says that impelation cannot be placed or removed from the agenda. It's about economic and social policy. I understand the reasons for avoiding the debate, because I saw that people have promised all the possible things that they can promise in life. I've asked for an assessment that is rational, correct, by the authorities that are still running that power at the moment, and I think that, as the Rules of Procedure so provides, there is no way that six months of avoiding that decision. So I would pray precisely in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that, of course, the agenda and the commitments that have been taken, Mrs Azra is no longer on her way, she is in Sarajevo, not signing any loans, even her deputy is here and is not at all questioning her coming down from the third floor to the second floor to submit oral information based on the interpretation that I have submitted. Since you've all got the impediment so that you don't get it wrong, I don't want to use my 20 or 30 minutes at all, so I don't want to use it. I want to use only three minutes of that time to simply formally fulfil the obligation, but I ask the House of People to listen to the report of the lady who did it together with the Council of Ministers and to have a agenda on the Council of Ministers, finished the job a few months ago. 4 There is no reason to cause obstruction, as there is no reason to block a request like this. I don't want to explain anything else, I'm just asking that the Rules of Procedure be respected and the fact that this House and this College have requested this answer. The answer's here. It's been months in Parliament. There's no formal reason not to put it on the agenda. And there is no clerical reason to justify the fact that the public is not told what the Council of Ministers has concluded about the current economic and social situation in BiH. It is a matter of parliamentary procedure and respect for the relations between parliament and the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3037	I thank Mr Spahić. I'd like to ask him to define the agenda point. Who's next to the word? Mr. Dragutin Ilić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3038	So the agenda point is to enter the record, in response to Mr Ibrahim Spahić's interpretation in line with the conclusions of the 24th session.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3039	I would ask you to define in writing to plead. I know what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3040	Mr Chairman, distinguished fellow delegates, on behalf of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, I propose that we include in today's session today's session a report on the work of our commission adopted on the Commission and it would be a good idea for us to finish our mandate, not to leave anything behind, and therefore I would ask you to put this report on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3041	Thank you. I ask Mr. Dragutin Ilić to deliver in writing. Who's next to the word? No more debates. I'm closing the debate. Please make it clear that Mr. Ivo Divković's proposal that the last point, I ask you, if we adopt it, must be the last point, because it is not businessly possible to change the order. I want to say that we are still officially in the Parliamentary Assembly not getting information from the Council of Ministers, and I know that it was the second item of the agenda. So I ask the Parliament Assembly services that if we adopt this item of the agenda to take over that information that it is shared by delegates, that if there are 5 needs when this is over and we give a break and, of course, make an appropriate contribution to the agenda point. Mr. Divković suggested that the agenda point is called – Considering land expropriation information by the authority of Brcko District at the Arizona market. Who's to make this point the last item of the agenda? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Six abstentions. Please interpret. The agenda has passed since the abstentions do not count in the total number of votes. So this will be the last item of the agenda. I would therefore ask the services to take over from the Council of Ministers the information he considered as the second item of the agenda and please the Club of Delegates of the Croatian People with a view to asking this item of the agenda to define the conclusions so that we can end this item of the agenda in the best possible way. Mr Ibrahim Spahić asked to include the agenda point – the response to Ibrahim Spahić's interpretation of economic and social policy in BiH. Who's for this part of the agenda? Who's against it? - 3 I realize that this point is listed as, which is the 10th point of the agenda, the 11th point of the agenda. Dragutin Ilić demanded that the last item of the 12th agenda be – Report on the Commission's work on foreign and trade policy for the period April-September 2002. Who's that? - 11 for who's against it? - I don't mind. Who's being held back? One, two abstentions. I figure this is the 12th item of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. I find that the agenda has been adopted with changes and additions. So with three new points of the agenda. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. It's Ad. 1. I'm opening a debate from the 24th session of the House of Peoples. Anybody got a call? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. 6 Who is it to adopt the minutes of the 24th session? I understand that from the 13th vote, we unanimously adopted the minutes of the 24th session of the House of Peoples. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. Ad. 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the BiH Air Force Act, second reading, proposed by the Council of Ministers, I am opening the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3042	Mr. Špirić has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3043	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished delegates, distinguished guests. The College of the People's House decided to amend and supplement the BiH Air Force Act as the second item of the agenda for the reason that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Representative Council adopted the law in its first and second readings without amendments. We appreciate that it would be of great benefit for the People's House to adopt amendments and supplement this law, and thus BiH would have said significant changes in this law and you know that this would be of great interest to the BiH Air Force, to the position of the BiH airport, to fly control, and I ask you, therefore, to support this law in a second reading today in order to simply come up with the same text in both homes. As far as I know, there have been no definitive amendments, and therefore I expect this law to be supported in the second reading. Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? There's no debate. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who is it to adopt this law in a second reading? - 12 for who's against it? - 1 No abstentions? I am pleased to see that we have adopted the amendments and additions, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Air Force Act in the second reading. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. Ad. 3. Declaration by the People's House on the reports of the Joint Commissions of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House on reaching an agreement in the same text (a) of the Law on concessions 7 You have received a report from the Commission. I would like to inform you that the committees and the Joint Committee of the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives have agreed to the text of the law, the single text of the law, and we are left only to confirm our report and the Commission's position by means of our statement. So who is it that we adopt the concession law in the same text as the commissions agreed? - 11 for who's against it? Are there any others who can handle it? I find that with 11 votes for and 2 abstentions, we passed the Law on concessions in BiH. We move to a statement concerning b) the BiH Governance Act I would also like to inform you, you have in writing that the Commission has reached the agreement of the law in the same text at both times. We're moving on to a plea. Who is it to adopt the Commission's report? - 13 for it. No one's against it? No one abstentioned? I agree that we unanimously passed the BiH Governance Act. We move to a statement on c) The Veterinary Act in BiH You also know that both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly passed the law in a different text and that they formed a commission. The Commission is pleased to conclude that it has reached agreement. We move to a statement concerning the Law on Veterinary in BiH to a harmonised text according to the work of the Joint Commission. Who's in? - 13 I therefore conclude that we have unanimously adopted this text of the law, so the Veterinary Act. Thank you very much. We're moving to the fourth item of the Ad agenda. 4. The Commission's report to the Nationals' College on reaching agreement on the Law on the City of Sarajevo, the capital, you received a report. The College of the People's House did not achieve consent. You know how the debate went. Consent has not been reached because, in my view, therefore, as a member of the College, it is a matter defined by a law that comes out of the Constitution of BiH, 8 or out of the Constitution, and please, the House of Peoples must be declared definitive. There's no statement. So we're just informing you. There's no argument. We do. Who's against Republika Srpska? - Five against finding out that this law doesn't need to be finished. Since the promoter insists who's against the Federation? - No one's against it. I find that this law has therefore not been supported. We're moving to the fifth item of the agenda. Ad. 5. Proposal for a law on cooperatives, second reading, legislators Nikola Špirić, Ilija Šimić, Sejfudin Tokić I open the debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We move on to a statement on this law in the second reading. Who is it to adopt the Law on Cooperatives in a second reading? - 12 for who's against it? - 1 against the abstentions. I find that the Cooperatives Act has won most of it and has been adopted. We're moving to the sixth item of the agenda. Ad. Six. Ratification of the Convention on Biological Variety Rio de Geniero Convention on 5 July 1992 I am opening the debate. Who's answering for a word? There's no one here. Mr. Spahić, then Mr. Ilić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3044	I want to support the natural ratification of biodiversity, because each species was...is actually something that is very important for BiH. Since it is primarily biologically very diverse, and it would say it has the best natural and human resources. I'd just like to say this on this occasion. I have to wait until this Špirić consults, what I'm going to say. I'm gonna spy. The college consults. I'm sorry. Now they've consulted. So, Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to address your naturally appreciated interests in biodiversity in BiH and point out two things. 9 First. BiH is one of the most diverse natural cells in Europe and the world under number 1. Under number two, there is also a very diverse variety in human resources so that this convention is indeed like a mele on the wound for those who do not suffer biodiversity in any way and I want to support the strong ratification of this agreement. So that's why I support it. And now, as a man who actually made ecological movements, magazines and actions, he would lead from the Skakavac Falls to Niagara and participate in the projects in 92 in preparation from Rio de Janeiro yet, I would like to say one single sentence. I am appalled by the insolence in BiH of those whom we have legally supported to do business as a public job, and regarding, of course, PBS of Public Television Service and all who were involved in that one
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3045	I would ask you to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3046	That the Convention on Biological Variety is used in an opportunity that is amazing in connection with the integrity of this desire and dedicated to the beauty of women, beauty of course related to the MIS elections. I am shocked that an current deputy minister could have used the opportunity of biological diversity to present his ecological ambitions.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3047	I would ask you, please, Mr Spahić not to use it, you keep it, we understand the convention.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3048	So as a delegate, I end up, I support ratification, I don't support the behavior of people who don't tolerate biodiversity, they don't respect the values of people, nor the values of women. I think it's a shame.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3049	I'm begging you. Thank you very much, Mr Spahić. Is there anyone else to answer for? Mr. Dragutin Ilić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3050	I would like to inform the House of the People that the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy is in agreement and proposes to the House that it agree to the Convention on Biological Diversity adopted in Rio De Janeyre. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3051	I thank Mr. Ilić's delegate. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who is it to carry out the Ratification of the Convention on Biological Variety? - 13 for it. No one's held up. No one's against it. Thank you. We're moving to the seventh item of the agenda. It's Ad. Seven. Ratification of the UN Convention on the control of desertification in countries affected by heavy droughts I open the debate. Who's answering for a word? We have a report from the commission. The Commission proposes that we carry out ratification. The competent committee, then. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who's to carry out the Ratification of this agreement? Who's in? I think it's Mr. Divković, I think it is. So 13 for no one against, no one abstention. I agree that we have unanimously made a decision to carry out the ratification. We're moving to the eighth point of the agenda. Ad. 8. Ratification of the Development Credit Agreement Project on Heavy Waste Management between BiH and the International Development Association I am opening the debate. No Niko's answering for a word. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who is it to ratify this agreement? - 13 for if we count Ibro Spahić. No Niko abstentioned, no one against. I understand that we have ratified this agreement. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda. It's Ad. Nine. The decision to determine printing transactions of state interest, legislator Sejfudin Tokić, I am opening the debate. I call upon the promoter to, if he appreciates the need to explain, do so at the beginning of the debate. 11 Mr. Sejfudin Tokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3052	So I would point out that I'm just a formal proposer of this decision that this decision actually represents the concise position of the Union of Graphic Workers and the Association of Graphic Employers. There's been a lot of talk in public about this issue. Obviously, in the past, a whole series of jobs that could have been done in the domestic graphics industry have been allocated outside the country and it would have been good to break off that practice. I would not like to open up here any broader debates or politicize now, since all the political parties are in principle even outlining in public to support such a relationship and I repeat myself in terms of continuous errors which have been carried out since the publication of the textbooks so as not to list the current ballots of the Electoral Commission which has made one such decision past the knowledge of this home. But without politicizing, I would ask you to accept this decision. It is simply my attempt that we as the House of Peoples in our last session will make one decision that will oblige the institution in the coming period to still think more about graphic workers and one and another entities, which, therefore, stand together at the stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3053	I thank Mr. Tokić. Who's next to the word?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3054	Mr. Špirić has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3055	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it makes sense today to support this decision with a view to the protection of an important one, I would say branches, which are graphicists in BiH, so both in the RS entity and in the Federation of BiH. It seems to me that it makes sense for the BiH executive authority to take care at all levels when it comes to tenders for graphics, in fact, when it comes to graphic services. It is business that is not of little value, and the graphic industry in BiH knows what the situation is. That's why it's good for the people to make this decision. It is only, therefore, that decision only serves as a warning to all authorities at BiH level that, in future, they are keeping an account when they are trusted, I would say such business to some ino companies, if it is known that there are capacities in BiH and trained workers that these jobs can be done. So I ask you today to support this decision, because it cannot essentially change what has been done so far, but it can be useful for future times in BiH. Thank you very much. 12 I beg you, seeing as we don’t have a quorum, but here’s if you agree to earn the work. Wait a minute, Mr. Divković, just a little Ibro Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3056	No, it can't be done at all. The session has to be interrupted. We'll wait here.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3057	I'm begging you. Let's make a deal like this. I didn't see that there was no quorum when I was talking. We've been taking a break for 15 minutes, and for the information that the service needs to share with delegates regarding the next item of the interpretation agenda, and in 15 minutes, we're going in here to make a statement about this decision. The debate on the decision is closed. And it's not closed. It's a deal. 15 minutes break. We have a quorum. I welcome my colleague Živković. Ibrahim Spahić answered the words, and then Dragutin Ilić, as I recall.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3058	So it is my duty, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, to give support to this statement by the BiH Parliament as the president of the BiH bookstore, and to express another dissatisfaction with doing so in a way that we forget what their real opportunities were at the moment. Me, we leave it to some future decisions. The only thing you'd like to say is. They have the right, not only the graphicists, not only the printers, but the agricultural producers and all the industry in our country to treat the same treatment and the same competition as others.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3059	I'm asking you this is about graphics.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3060	So graphists have put one problem fundamentally and socially on their own example, which is to protect domestic work and production and mind. I think people have every right, I hope tomorrow all farmers and others are looking for the same thing. Just that it makes sense and effect, and we congratulate the graphicians for having so much patience and brains to at least wait for them to hear today to support them. And I support this initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3061	Thank you very much. Mr. Ilić. Here you go. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3062	Madam Chairman, fellow delegates, although I don't have that decision, I only have this letter from the Union of Graphic Workers, which I received as a delegate, I want to respond here and give them full support. It is a sad fact that Parliament must, in this way, protect the fundamental rights of our people to work even from the money paid by our peas from taxes to keep that money in BiH. Indeed, Mr Spahić is right when he says that we do not protect our domestic products at all, today we import milk, and our milk is given to pigs and other products. These import lobbys are so powerful they seem to be doing what they're doing because of commissions, and I think after these choices, it's not gonna be like that anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3063	I thank Mr. Ilić, although pigs do not have much to do with graphics. Who's next to the word? Mr. Novaković. Here you go, but I'm only asking for a moment.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3064	Fellow delegates, with your discussions on the line of support, I only assume that you, or your parties from this, will get all the votes of graphic workers.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3065	I thank Mr. Novaković. I'm closing the debate. Nobody's answering any more. We're moving on to a plea. Who's to support this decision? - Ten for who's against it? Who's being held back? - 1 is restrained gospodin Ilić is on the phone, I guess he's for, so 11... v., 1 abstention. I realize we've adopted the decision. We're going to the tenth point of the agenda, and that's Ad. Ten. Consideration of land expropriation information from the Brcko District Authority at Arizona Market we received information from the Council of Ministers. I guess they've been able to read it. 14 Who Answers the Word? I'm opening a debate. Mr. Ilija, Mr. Ivo Divković, then Mr. Ilija Šimić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3066	Dear colleagues, first of all, I thank the authorities of the Brcko District who delivered the information you had to see, which is on your desk. I am just appreciating our time and in some way correctness of relations when it comes to this information I have one proposal, which is that we are not having a lot of controversy about information with what I would suggest two conclusions in front of the Croatian Club in this House regarding the information that would in some way be an integral part of the conclusions that we will adopt. The first conclusion is without prejudice to information, that the competent authorities of the Brcko District are reviewing so far the decisions taken on the expropriation of land for the Arizona market and the second one to form a parliamentary commission of the House of Peoples to include, which will be included together with the authorities of the Brcko District and the representatives of the landowners on the settlement, further resolving this issue. I think these two conclusions could in some way be supported and thus be brought in a calmly correct legal way overall this situation that happened worse. I would also like to remind the media here that there are representatives of the landowners of the Brcko District. I would ask them here too in front of the pay phone if we didn't open the debate and controversy over this, and after this it will be, they hold a press conference where they will be able to present their views on the overall problem. That's it, I wouldn't be opening the polemics any further unless I was written on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3067	I thank Mr. Živković. I'd like you to give me conclusions in writing if you can deliver. Mr. Vice-President Ilija Šimić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3068	Dear fellow envoys, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a matter that has been in very one cancer these months, and I would like the least sad way to be present in our media. Of course I agreed and participated in the creation of the Croatian Club proposal and I also advocate that we are not opening the controversy here, but to support the conclusions proposed by Mr Divković. 15 I must say and thank my colleagues for understanding that this point has come to the agenda at all. In Brcko District, it is well known that all officials and parliamentary and executive authorities of the Croatian people had a conflicting view of the other representatives both in the parliamentary and executive authorities. This is a very serious issue in itself, and the Croatian Club in the House of Peoples does not want to raise this to the level of protection of vital national interests, but I would like to warn that such an example is very undesirable in our parliamentary practice. I, too, would like to say from this speaker that Brcko District is part of the BiH constitutional system and that all levels of executive and parliamentary authority in Brcko District must bear in mind and that nothing can happen there completely separate from what is the general interest of the public, the state and what is the general democratic interest of BiH. There's a very unpleasant fact in all of this. In fact, this whole problem has escalated in pre-election time. I would now say that there were harsh uses and abuses of these facts and stories about facts for the pre-election purposes of certain parties. But more dangerous than that, I will say some officials in Brcko District, including even a supervisor for Brcko, all of what is possible about this vaguely and problematicly trying to cover everything that is said about this problem that is for pre-election purposes. It turns out that even the most elementary facts can't be said, because, for God's sake, someone abuses it for pre-election purposes. That is why I call on my fellow envoys to really listen to Mr. Divković's proposal not to debate too much, or if it is possible for us not to possibly come to an attack so that people say that we send really pre-election messages from this important pay phone, but it is my suggestion that after our session, after these adopted conclusions of the Brcko District people turn to the public and they say what they think about it, and that our conclusions are about the way Mr. Divkovic suggested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3069	I thank Mr. Šimić. Rjeć has a gentleman, the second vice-president, Mr. Tokić, and Mr. Spahić appears, so Mr. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3070	In any case, I think this is a very hot issue, an important issue from the authority of the assembly, i.e. the Vlade District, that has come to the meeting of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, among other things because it is slightly forgotten that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is something that, in principle, together with the Council of Ministers, should be an ambience where the regulations will be synchronised and where the district position will be established in a way that provides the interest of both entities above all the whole state of BiH. In principle, I believe we have a situation here where the Council of Ministers, unfortunately, has just passed us information from the Government of the District which is not good. Because the Council of Ministers here has direct jurisdiction. This had to be manifested 16 The Ministry of Human Rights with its opinion and had to be manifested by the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, and in this context I do not see any logic that both Mr Zubak and Mr Svetozar Mihajlović would be in the function of the protocol to pass on certain information to us. The idea to form a parliamentary delegation with all due respect, the Commission is a little late on the idea, because I remind you the elections are 5th and in principle whether it is very soon after, in 15 days we will have a new assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly and it should certainly be a new parliamentary delegation, so that we can give it an initiative like this. But I would advocate Mr. Divković, if you would accept it if we, in one conclusion, made a commitment to the Council of Ministers which has continuity of work and by the Constitution until the election of the new Council of Ministers, and its powers here are very clear, very much so as to say strong, that the Council of Ministers is involved in this problem and that we commit. We can do it. We can oblige the Council of Ministers to consider all the facts in this matter. If it determines certain irregularities in the human rights aspect and respect for illegality to request a review of a decision by the District. This can also be done by the Council of Ministers and we can order the Council of Ministers to have their own expert group or interresor group go there and get acquainted with all these events. It would be perfectly logical for me to do so right after the election so that it doesn't fall into this pre-election. Every other conclusion, I'm afraid there would be politicizing, because now that we're forming a delegation to go there in the next three days, I don't believe there's anything to say, but we can give the initiative to get Parliament involved. But I would advocate this conclusion that the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, after considering this information, obliges the Council of Ministers to, in accordance with their responsibilities, in particular the Ministry of Human Rights, or the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, look at all documents. If they find the basis, they call for a review of a certain decision, while the interior group of the Council of Ministers reminds the Brcko District and tries to engage in resolving this problem, as it is within the authority of BiH institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3071	I thank Mr. Tokić. I'd like to ask you to define this conclusion in writing. We'll make a statement, of course. Who's next to the word? Mr. Spahić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3072	Mr. Chairman, I have supported Mr. Divković on this issue to put this item on the agenda for just one simple reason. I said that on several occasions I convinced myself on the ground in Arizona in various versions of what I just read as information we received as official information. There are 17 many versions of these that are on the spot different from what the text says. It's in the nature of things normal. People protect their interests. They have their ambitions, etc. I'm not talking about political statements at all, they're not interested in me right now, they're interested in people who are involved in the process. And that's why I supported this attitude. Another thing I would like to say is that it is obvious that the time is coming for complete reforms of economic and new social earthquakes and that this example of Arizona has been an example of a non-creation network through human trafficking and communication. It is, since fundamental human rights on private property are being violated to compare fundamental human rights stemming from the right to organise its life and of course to defend people for work at all costs if society and state do not create an environment and give them the opportunity, then it is the most legitimate right, such as the right to eat, sleep, etc. So...all human rights and freedoms right in Arizona and I don't think politics can judge those rights, because it hasn't given answers to either economic, social, political, or legal how to deal with problems for the market to be regulated and relations to be regulated in BiH. In that sense, I am, of course, the man who wants to say that it would really be most intelligent to consider a completely different approach to this problem than we have so far. We can assume a commitment that we cannot realise as this parliamentary commission will do by another parliament. This will not bring any comfort except that we have done one procedure that would be correct, that we have a mandate for another year or six months. And in that sense, this proposal can really be corrected by giving someone who will function in the interregnum, which is the Council of Ministers. That proposal is quite fine, which we just heard. But it's not a matter of jurisdiction that only the flow water heater of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and communications that he left us with information without any comment, as if it weren't touched by that ministry. Nor can it be done in principle by the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, because then it would mean that it is none of their business, someone there has made decisions, courts, attitudes, and they are not touched. It is also amazing that we do not have a completely different approach here by the Council of Ministers, which would necessarily require the presence of the Ministry of Economic Relations and Foreign Trade, and in which it would also be necessary to have an area of natural investment in BiH, which is precisely the word here, domestically, according to the foreign partner and partner. It's completely conflicting information about what kind of investment these are and how it's going to end up together and who's actually investing that capital and how it's investing. And that's what anyone who's reasonable and listens to people carefully enough to conclude would say that at the very least we need to open up a survey structure, one survey committee to clear up the matter. Because it's the most vulnerable. It is like a stomach, for example, like an ulcer, or an ulcer on the abdomen, which is about now operating on Arizona, and it has to crack, it can neither twist the Council of Ministers, nor this parliamentary assembly, nor people gathered around various interests. In order not to produce severe consequences, carcinogens and not to hit investors who have insiders to invest in BiH, so as not to rock the interests of domestic investors, and to protect the rights of people to work and the rights of people to their property, it is obvious that a completely different cut and a different political approach to this problem are needed. 18 It is not this problem before the election pushed into the first plan. He was just pushed under the carpet earlier and simply freed himself from the responsibility of executive power to make this a real issue. It's normal for people to react when they're in the focus of interest, stakeholders want to vote for positions, then they act intelligently, so they tell one political party who supports me, so I'll give you votes, and then to another political party, you, if you support me, I'll give you votes.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3073	I would ask Mr Spahić to stick to the agenda and leave the political parties alone
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3074	That's how it is. You'd have concluded the following. Of course. I'd like to conclude with my next proposal. So exclusively from experience and human encounters and with elementary human rights and freedoms, in my deep conviction, if it is given to arbitration internationally for aluminum, if it is a term under international arbitration, by my deep conviction, since everything here is broken, all interests in BiH, only by my conviction, and I will write it down that Parliament draws the conclusion that it recommends to the Council of Ministers to seek international arbitration because it is obvious that relations between the District and the state of BiH cannot be regulated in the right way, as well as between the two entities that conflict their interests across this area. And my belief is that it takes international arbitration to protect the interests of all those involved in this process. That's all I'm saying. International arbitration. It is a shame that tens of thousands of people depend on this debate today and that they are breaking spears in every way possible. That's what I'm going to suggest. You can accept or refuse.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3075	Thank you. Please in writing conclusion. I would like to ask if she can help the suggestion of Minister Azra Hadžiahmetović. She answered the word, Mr. Divković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3076	I would like to thank the chairman, the honourable delegates more in the light of the clarification on why the Council of Ministers forwarded it without any suggestions and explanations. I will remind you that in this accompanying letter sent by my colleague Mihajlović to the mayor of Brcko District, it is mentioned, among other things, that the act of the cabinet of the chairman of the Council of Ministers of 27.9. The Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications was obliged to provide the relevant information for today's session at the request of the People's House. It's 30.9 today. A colleague, Mihajlović, informed us this morning that he had received information from the Council of Ministers that was delivered to your desks and the Council of Ministers had one brief break during the meeting to get acquainted with this information. I will tell you 19 that, regardless of the reserves of some members of the Council of Ministers to some views in this information, the Council of Ministers was not ready to talk today, possibly establishing a factual state, drawing conclusions, proposals, etc. In this regard, she decided to provide the information in question and to arrange activities with both the House of the People and the Brcko District. And this, I think, although I don't have the authority on behalf of the Council of Ministers, I was the one who expressed the reserves, not according to the content of the information, so much more because of the position of the Brcko District and communication and state institutions, especially the Council of Ministers with the Brcko District. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3077	I thank Minister Hadžiahmetović. Mr. Ivo Divković. It's a replica, a false allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3078	Practically tied conclusions. In the beginning, I said that since we would not want to make any political marketing out of this, it is not our idea not to lead the debate, that is, to the least possible extent. So in this sense, Mr. Tokić's proposal that the Council of Ministers be involved in resolving the resulting dispute as a second conclusion instead of our commission, we from the Croatian Club support, in brief consultations we immediately agreed on the Council of Ministers reporting to the House of Peoples on the results and its activities. That should add to that. Whether this club, or whether this people's home in this assembly, will be there to be reported or next, is now less important, because the next House of Nations will also be involved further in solving this problem, if there is a problem and if there is a need for it. So that's what this is, I was going to say that we accept that second conclusion of Tokić, that our first stay, along with this, with the addition to informing the House of Peoples of the Council of Ministers about the results of that activity. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3079	I thank Mr. Divković. The word was asked for by Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3080	The Honorable Chairman, fellow delegates, I will be very brief as we are brought into some position that we have a report signed by the mayor, and on the other hand, which quite differently puts light on this seems to me by these others, so that our position is quite ungrateful and I think that, or I am putting the reserve on that first part of the conclusion precisely because if the second conclusion of Mr. Tokic, or Mr. Tokić's proposal, then there is no need for a first conclusion, because only on the basis of this information from the Council of Ministers, then we will express doubts whether it is okay or not, should we recheck or not. 20 For I do not see the function of the Council of Ministers now discussing us, we have already expressed here our first suspicion that there is something wrong. And Mr. Kisić says there's nothing wrong with it again. That is why I propose that the conclusion comes only to this conclusion, with the addition of what Mr. Divković said, so that this goes, to report to the House of Peoples after considering this information. Now, before we have, let's say the conditionality of an international arbitration there, we have a supervisor who would certainly have had something wrong with his reaction there, and probably the situation would have gone quite the other way. Therefore, as far as I am concerned, I will support the conclusion proposed by Mr. Tokić with this addition to Mr. Divković. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3081	I thank Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3082	The word is Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3083	Ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed delegates I am and last time it seems to me that I have made a concrete contribution to relaxing the situation regarding this problem. Although our conclusion to the House was directed to the authorities on time, I was checking these days because they called me from different sides why the House of Peoples didn't react. Unfortunately, we didn't have an answer on either side. I think it's a serious problem to solve. It seems to me that all the conclusions that solve the problem make sense. So everyone who solves the problem. What Mr. Ibro Spahić suggested to provide international arbitration, I must say, is quite interesting, but expensive. If we in any case introduce international arbitration in BiH, then the budget of the Parlamentary Assembly of BiH will be spent on international arbitration and therefore international experts can freely rub their hands, because this is the time when competent authorities receiving salaries at different levels in BiH should do their job. In that sense, it seems to me that at this point it may be the most complete conclusion that, simply the eyes of the BiH authorities are holding on to this problem, is Mr Tokić, who says he is obliged by the Council of Ministers to form an inter-resor team in accordance with his responsibilities to examine whether human rights violations or violations of regulations exist in this case and to report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in his findings. I think that's a good conclusion, that's the conclusion that the Council of Ministers holds in the problem, also holds the Parliamentary Assembly, because it must ask the Council of Ministers to submit a report. The Council of Ministers has jurisdiction when it comes to co-operation with the government of the Brcko District and it seems to me that we will have an active access to the way it is defined. Mr. Divković himself said that this second conclusion they withdraw for a reason because he himself thinks it is better to have the Council of Ministers involved this problem in one more powerful way and I think that this conclusion, by which we will naturally plead if you agree on all the conclusions, but 21 I think this conclusion is good and that we simply do not need to bury these problems with a series of conclusions. The Council of Ministers is our council of ministers, it is duty to do its job, especially if the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly draws attention to him or to the task of dealing with this problem. In that sense, I think it would be good for us to get the will and the strength, but with the intention that these problems are being solved, not to be put under the rug, and I ask my colleague Ivo Divković to realize that I really want to make a contribution to making the eyes of the public and the attention of the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers stick to this problem. Thank you very much. Is there? Here you go, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3084	Gentlemen Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, this case at Arizona Market has actually shown something new to me here that there is very bad, almost no communication between the authorities of the Brcko District and the Council of Ministers of BiH. I even get the feeling that this is the first time that this case has actually discovered that this communication is so bad and that this is the first time that the Council of Ministers is involved in a problem of the Brcko District. I remind you that this is not good, because the Brcko District is an integral part of BiH and that this cooperation should be better in the future. I am so glad that this case has started, better ever than never, and I also support the conclusions proposed by Mr. Divković, I welcome the gentlemen of Brcko District and I am glad that they will be able to speak openly to the public at the press conference about these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3085	Thank you. Mr. Spahić. Is it a false quote, a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3086	So, gentlemen of the chairman, I would, following Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović's statement that the Council of Ministers would deal with this problem, because there were no conditions as far as I understood the proposal to form an inter-resor group, but would ask that apart from the two ministries announced to be the third ministry, the ministry of Ms Azra Hadžiahmetović. Because this is about direct protection of the interests of domestic and foreign investment and the Council of Ministers in general. However, what I want to say can decourage people from investing in BiH and can prevent them from taking the country seriously, because there are as many problems in BiH as you want. From Glamoch to Sarajevo. That's why I'd like to withdraw this proposal to make it easier for you to talk about international arbitration, but I'd like to point out something. Since BiH can no longer work, neither can this parliament as it has worked so far, and I have simply detected this because of this, this international arbitrationian, because we already have there on behalf of the international community and supervisors. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3087	I beg you, Mr. Spahić, draw a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3088	So I suggest a conclusion and suggest, just to warn
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3089	Thank you very much. Don't. Please be parliamentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3090	Let me warn you. These people will eventually address the Court in Strasbourg and have the right to protect their rights.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3091	Thank you very much. It doesn't make sense. Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Mr. Šimić. I agree. I'm asking you a little more patience to be collegiate with each other, but please delegates, he's right, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3092	Dear colleagues, one minute or two at a time. Of course, the debate is going well, but as far as the conclusions are concerned, an inter-resor group of the Council of Ministers should certainly be accepted, but the proposal of the Croatian Club, the first conclusion by me.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3093	A little patience, please. Here you go, Mr. Šimić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3094	Thank you very much. So, the proposal of the first conclusion of the Croatian Club, I would not be prepared at all, and Mr. Divković, on behalf of the Croatian Club, did not withdraw the proposal for the first conclusion, because if that conclusion did not remain, then we did nothing. In that case, the Brcko District would continue its course, and the Council of Ministers would do something else. The first conclusion was that all the authorities of Brcko District, of course, involved in this problem, once again examine all of this in view of the escalated situation, etc., because Mr. Novaković, who suggested that, from that point of view, he had actually confirmed in his discussion that this conclusion was necessary because he said that the mayor had one position, and the others had a second position. That's what we're talking about. That is what the BiH state should be involved in for a part of its territory and its bodies where it has the authority to be involved in a democratic and parliamentary way. So I'm sure the Croatian Club proposes this first 23 conclusions and the second and that these conclusions really go towards solving the problem, not anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3095	I thank and conclude the debate. No more debates. We're moving on to a plea. I thank Mr Spahić for giving up his conclusion. I thank Mr. Divković for saying that the second conclusion could be replaced by Mr. Sejfudin Tokić's proposal. So there are only two conclusions left. That's the conclusion on behalf of the Croatian People's Club of Delegations, I'll read it. That the competent authorities of Brcko District should review the decisions taken so far on land expropriation at the Arizona market. Who's in favor of this conclusion? - 4 for who's against it? - 4 Who Is Restraint? - Three abstentions. I find that this conclusion has not been adopted. We move to the conclusion of Sejfudin Tokić. The Council of Ministers undertakes to establish an inter-resor team in accordance with its competences to examine whether human rights violations or violations of regulations exist in this case, and to report on its findings to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Who's in favor of this conclusion? - 11 for it. Who's against it? Who's being held back? - 1 1 abstention and 11 for. I find this conclusion passed. We're done with this agenda point. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad. 11. Interpletion of Mr Ibro Spahić Please Mr Ibro Spahić to be consistent when he said he would speak for three minutes, as Minister Hadžiahemtović will take part.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3096	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3097	I'm asking Mr. Ivo Divković to stay because we won't have a quorum.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3098	...with citizens from Brcko it's allowed the House of People there's lobbying. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3099	I'm just asking a little patience and sensitivity to bring this session to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3100	So I'd like to use this promised three minutes, although I'm supposed to be 20, or 30 minutes if I could speak and I'd like to say the following. First, I am pleased that after half-year of work, there has been a response from the Council of Ministers to the interpretation of economic and social policy and the possibility of finding the answer on the BiH Parliament's agenda. Secondly, I would like to say that after the strategy of economic and social development called the "Entrepreneurship Society" we worked on at the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples in the period '99-2001. And the fact that here in front of both homes we adopted in principle this old-age corporate society, we found ourselves in a position to since 2001. .... we talk in BiH mostly from two central issues. First, the strategy against poverty. Secondly, to discuss economic and social reforms in the country. That's important. Finally, debates on BiH's fundamental poverty issues began at the state level on the fundamental footings of social policy in BiH. I have had the opportunity to consult on this interpretation and on economic and social policy in BiH more than 129 family, small, medium and large enterprises in the process of transition, privatisation or are privatised throughout BiH. That is why I would like to give three examples through this example to show what a dramatic economic and social situation is in BiH. The first example refers to Brcko, Luka Brcko. In Luci Brcko, 63 workers, as I recall, are ready to start working with their two big cranes for a million tons of transportation. Luka Brčko, unfortunately, cannot ensure the beginning of the work, as it is a dispute whether it will be an international or interstate agreement between Croatia, Slovenia, BiH and Yugoslavia. In the event that this is an international agreement, it is clear that there are prospects for ten million people around the Sava and can create perspectives for different types of business, transport and create, normally, 100% new employment in Luka Brcko, but, at the same time, also ensure that, in addition to water traffic, road traffic and rail traffic in Luc and Brcko, the best thing it has for... the BiH economy. We should have a more aggressive policy in this regard to be an international and not an international agreement, and it is quite clear that the position of the international community and BiH on the part of the international agreement that it belongs then to all possible other river flows is creating a much better economic perspective. The second example is Doboj- Doboj South-Doboj East and Doboj. One is located in the U.S. Canton, the second in Tuzla Canton, the third in the RS part of Doboj. All three parts of that one 25 city are scattered and the economics are completely compromised, simply because their nature is the thing that the Doboj roads of Bosnia, Vegafruit, Bosnia Express and other associations of their economic and social and human resources and create one natural economic zone, where, normally, Doboj would not only be a region, but one of the most dynamic centres that has since the previous 570 bus crossings reduced to 5-6 per cent of that traffic. At the same time, one of the most interesting and most intelligent communities has turned into a community of empty space in which both Doboj South and Doboj the same and Doboj loses, loses BiH, citizens, workers and all those involved in the job. The third example refers to the Bihac Bureau. People there have restored the cooling plant and are now very interesting to anyone who comes home and pressures them to privatize as soon as possible, especially the gentlemen from Gorenje who have come and are looking for a way out at all costs, and that is actually true because people have already won 20% of the cooling market and thus have concluded that they could blush themselves. It looks like a Slovenian lobby is doing well now. And the last minute I'm using to flatten this program is related to three major companies, these are smaller. One's the tobacco factory, the other's aluminum, the third's the Blue Refinery. All three companies are now in BiH from one, the other and third sides of the superprofit. All three companies are, in fact, companies that are a great temptation for BiH as well as family middle and small enterprises. I therefore call on Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović as an interpreter to tell us what she sees in the programme of economic measures in the next period and what she thinks is missed as an opportunity for this period, given that this may be the best sign that people can finally stop entertaining the great promises offered by the people at this time that they will be employed by 600, 357, 200 thousand people, and that in doing so, expert analysis of the Council, our Council of Ministers and the Peace Implementation Council says that only in 2004 will up to 60,000 employees come, I am not saying anything about who will be fired and that all the analyses say that we will have to pass the path of legal, economic and social reforms, one difficult path on which people should be warned before they decide to believe in the great...who simply closed their eyes to reality. So I thank you for the opportunity to use these three minutes this smart and rationally.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3101	I thank Mr Spahić, he broke through in a minute and a half, but it's not as much as Ibro knows. I suggest that Miss Minister, I ask you to listen to Minister Hadžiahmetović. Yes, but when it's significant, Ibro speaks briefly when it's not long, never shake. I ask you a little patience and seriousness to give the pasture to Minister Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3102	Thank the chairman who invited me to respond to the interpretation, which will be a correction to delegate Ibro Spahić, who invited me to respond. Secondly, he called me 26 as an interpreter. It didn't even occur to me to tell you honestly that I didn't even know about this business possibility, but I was obliged to respond to your interpretation. Given that most of the competences of the subject that you have set for interpretation fall within the competence of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, i.e. coordination with the relevant entity ministries, I must mention that the response to the interpretation has been established by the Council of Ministers within a period of time and delivered to the House of Nations, so within 60 days. Since then, unfortunately, several months have passed, but the circumstances have not been discussed so far. So, I'm going to try in the shortest possible lines to introduce you to the response to the interpretation, noting that some of these things are, and I'm going to when I come across them add what is in the meantime, so, after a few months since this answer was established. Firstly, the initiative of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which we have received in the light of the country's social-economic interpretation, is indeed a commendable move that can help to see our current efforts in several areas. We understand them as the intention to intensify social dialogue in future development plans and to first cut what has been done in the past. It is very correct that incomplete coordination between state institutions and, therefore, such initiatives can only contribute to making the different segments of the executive and legislative authorities better communication and more fully understand the efforts that each institution is carrying out. Not looking at the whole of jobs can easily lead to blackmail on the absence of strategic concepts and synchronised activities in the area of economic and social reforms. However, a more precise and thorough review of what has been done and what is under way suggests that the current activities of the initiative have a clear objective, concept and methodology. However, slow dynamics of the implementation of certain reforms, a complete decision-making process, prevent our citizens from feeling positive results more quickly and seeing the purpose and integrity of reforms. Short-term management and coordination of development policy. Following the initiative of the BiH Parliament Assembly, a Gobal Economic Strategy for the period until 2004 was created and presented last year. As the first and strategic material in our future economic and social development, passing a long way of preparation and discussion under the leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, this strategy has been widely supported in the public and professional clubs, so the recommendations and conclusions of this document immediately began to be used in developing other documents and selecting alternatives to decision-making. Most of the decisions made in the meantime have been made towards what is written in this document, and its value is becoming increasingly evident over time, especially in interpreting our definitions and priorities in communication with the international community. Furthermore, regarding the pierespi process, I would like to remind myself of a strategy to combat poverty called so and it works according to the usual methodology established by international financial institutions, it is mandatory for all countries below a certain level of economic development. It is essentially a development strategy for poor countries. So, one of the concrete examples of the global framework was the beginning of work on the pyrespi process and on this basis in the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is 27 a preliminary strategy has been prepared which, as is also said, what has been provided by the Global Framework of Economic Strategy has received quality assessments from international financial ones that are relevant for this. This strategy is a key document that the international community expects to prepare each country at the level of development and with social problems such as currently in BiH and will contain all of our key provisions on economic development, poverty reduction and social cohesion improvement. The main feature of this process is to obtain extensive consultations with all segments of society, with the aim of reaching a general social consensus on key issues, given that this is a prerequisite for a successful realisation. The foreign trade ministry has so far made great efforts to start and speed up this process and thus the purpose is, as you know, an office for the preparation of pyrespies, therefore, coordination of activities, a mechanism of coordination between state and entity working groups, the first round of consultations has been completed, the work on sectoral studies has been launched. I would like to inform you that this work at the very end, the thematic consultations on the construction of the 5C highway, the Karensibor monetary arrangement, all measures to stimulate agricultural production last week, was held roundtable, then a mechanism of interaction with the non-governmental sector was established and three seminars were held for the contribution of participants to the consultation process in which, among other things, representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly were held. This large process of persuasion of the final strategy will last for another month to two, until then a number of discussion forums will be held on individual topics and with different participants, which will also be an opportunity to take into account the suggestions presented during the submission of the interpretation of the delegates of Mr Spahić. I just want to mention that the activities of this development strategy are based on the planned dynamics. Medians are represented not to be abused for election purposes. Co-ordination uniform for economic development and European integration. As you know, the shared competences and the complicated decision-making system itself stemmed from our constitutional and legal arrangement on important issues raised for the conduct of development policy, which has also proved to be a significant obstacle and the cause of many delays in the implementation of the reform and relations with international institutions. The new executive authorities, therefore, also at the level of the Council of Ministers and both entity governments have faced this problem at the beginning of their mandate and decided to set up a mechanism for more effective policy-making and implementation. To this end, at the beginning of the national poverty reduction strategy, the co-ordination committee on economic development and European integration, which includes both representatives and the Council of Ministers and both entity governments, were constitutionally established. This advisory mechanism, as the Co-ordination Committee itself says, has so far shown excellent results of the internal bargaining and dialogue with the international community and if it does not have the power to make executive decisions. The forum, chaired by the Council of Ministers, managed to integrate the rpocesses of negotiations on important economic issues and helped to successfully end negotiations with the IMF on the Stand Bay arrangement, then meet the conditions for the payment of loans to privatise banks and businesses, monitor the process of developing a strategy to fight poverty, shape future relations with the World Bank and so on. We appreciate that the move has shown the political will of the BiH-level executives and both entities to work co-ordinatedly towards implementing economic reforms. 28 In the case of the socio-economic situation itself, the lack of adequate statistics on the socio-economic situation in the country has proved to be a serious obstacle to the conduct of appropriate policies. The data collected after the war was very unreliable and did not give a complete picture of the situation. Despite the lack of experience and the non-building of our statistical institutions, the domestic executive authorities, therefore, and the Council of Ministers and both entity governments decided to start a job to create a reliable national statistical base on living standards and parallel depravation of domestic capacities. With the help of donors in the country's entire territory last year with a unique methodology, a survey of life-stend measurement was conducted. This survey by its bimbi was very extensive because it included 14 modules by which data were collected in a representative sample of 5,600 households. The methodology used allows the results obtained to be compared cross-referenced with other countries and international standards, i.e. with objectives. In the absence of enough time, I will not present you with key indicators from this standard of living survey, which may be of interest to the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Unemployment, according to the standard of living survey, measured the rpem methodology of the international organisation of work, i.e.... and as a percentage of persons actively seeking a job and who have not had employment in the last seven days. According to these findings, inconsistency is estimated at around 20%. I will tell you more precisely according to some indicators 17.8%, and that is also why sometimes in presenting key macroeconomic indicators in BiH you will encounter very different indicators, specifically when it comes to unemployment ranging from 17% to 40%. It's all the result, exactly what we were just talking about. This around 20% is also mentioned as a reason why it takes employment into account in the so-called sector. The grey economy, which is highly estimated in BiH. Our official statistical analyses talk about unemployment about 40% based on registered employment bureaus. Given that we do not have a segment of the labour market in BiH arranged and these indicators should be taken with the reserve. When it comes to macro-economics. In a macroeconomic context, I will remind only one comment on the introductory letter of Mr Ibro Spahić's interpretation, when it comes to the macro-economics, when it comes to one... area in terms of the economic and social situation in BiH, peaceful economic examples and indicators that counterpart Spahić had just presented are not reliable indicators of the introduction to this topic. In mcro economic terms, we continue the general orientation that has been drawn with the last stand by arrangement. This means strict adherence to the rules imposed by the currency committee, i.e. the Karinsibord mechanism for monetary and exchange rate policies. With regard to fiscal policy, key commitment, balance of collection and spending of public revenue, without accumulation of backlogs and debt. Economic growth in the past year was estimated to be 5.5% with growth in RS recorded a significant slowdown compared to growth in the Federation of BiH due to the decline in industrial production. Inflation in RS was further decreases, so it was 3% at national level last year. The external debt decreased relatively from 68.7% in 2000 to 55.7 in 2001 while exports increased by 16.1 in 2001 thanks to the free trade agreement 29 preferential treatment of our goods on imports into the European Union market. The deficit was generally reduced from 20% in 2000 to 13% in 2001. The growth of foreign reserves, thanks to the process of conversion to the euro, has exceeded expectations and represent a solid basis for the conversion mark. The launch of the new Stand Bay arrangement occurred, the conclusion came with a delay, mainly due to problems with the adoption of state and netting budgets, and the agreement on the redistribution of excise income between the two entities. However, it should be pointed out that during the period between the two stand-by arrangements we have set out responsiblely to lead our macro-economic policies, and there has been no distortion of co-operation with the International Monetary Fund. This cooking, of course, will not go without consequences, because time lost and unnecessaryly delayed time to obtain the necessary budget support and the team has slowed down the realization of some important budget items. Our future brand-economic policy will be realised in two main directions. First, strict respect for the Karensibord arrangement, and drugi, responsible fiscal policy In the first I don't think there's any need to speak in more detail. I will only mention that fiscal policy is at all levels in BiH, that it is necessary to focus on reducing the consolidated budget deficit for the whole country to 5.1% of widgets, which means that the practice of the accumulation of unsettled commitments will be interrupted, and the termination of the practice of borrowing from domestic and external commercial sources other than concessional or favourable lending provided by the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, etc. The main factor in reducing this deficit is expected to be increased and revenues will be supported by increased tax administration, implementation of the tax identification number and the introduction of an automated system of asikuds to address customs applications. At the level of the Federation of BiH, budget expenditure is planned to be reduced through a significant reduction in military spending, and in RS through, the number of employees in the sector will be reduced by 1,500 people. At BiH level, the budget will be balanced, with a 40% budget increase expected to finance the introduction of new institutions and the penetration of the State Border Service. When it comes to structural reforms in the economy for a short time, work has continued in the past on more defined structural changes, which need to transform our economic system in the area of public finances. Structural changes in the area of public finances have largely been successfully realised in the following. The introduction of a vault business in all budgets, strengthening the role of public auditors, the rehabilitation of pension funds in both entities, the establishment of the location of excise incomes between entities, the integration of fighting funds in the Federation of BiH, the improvement of the way of budgetary planning, etc., which is all the more expensive to result in a better system of public revenue collection and greater transparency in its spending. Of course, 30 activities in this direction are not exhausting in any entity with measures that are, in fact, numbered. Jobs are still in the area of public finances. When it comes to the business environment, an important segment of the structuring changes that have been made intensively over the past period is an improvement in the business environment. This represents one of the key parts of our economic policy as defined in the Global Economic Strategy, as it directly concerns increasing foreign investment and strengthening the domestic business sector. This represents a set of reforms of our economic and legal system, namely the framework that all other successful transition countries have gone through. This has not been given any attention so far, so our economic and legal framework has become almost improbable because of the accumulation of non-consistent and non-compliant legal regulations. In order to start all these things off the dead end, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations first with the help of the World Bank advisory agency FIJAS has started a diagnostic study on administrative investment barriers. This led to the development of an action plan to remove these barriers, which was adopted by both the Council of Ministers and both entity governments and already in the implementation process. Furthermore, the fight against corruption is one of the key factors for improving the country's economic situation, as corruption has the ultimate impact on private sector development and public income spending. A solution to this problem has been given to the emphasis and a set of measures in the fields of legislation, institutional building and education has been developed in order to first address the comprehensive concept of the fight against corruption. I only mention that, also adopted an action plan co-ordinated with BiH's competent institutions and international community representatives involved in the anti-corruption sector, an action plan has been made that was also in the implementation phase. When it comes to privatisation, the privatisation process is completely under the control of entity governments, but however, the Council of Ministers sought in different ways to influence the rapid dynamics of the process. Strong efforts would focus on promoting our investment opportunities and attracting foreign investors. In order to improve and speed up the company's privatization of strategic importance, as you know, a credit arrangement with the World Bank for Technical Assistance in the sale of these companies to both entities has been agreed. It is possible to hire global intermediaries, which under our strict control, therefore, control of entity governments will prepare offers and mediate the comparison of serious investors and achieve a higher selling price of capacity. When it comes to the liberalisation of trade, in short, to overcome the kind of extraction that we set ourselves on fire in the war and shit period of BiH has taken place in the process of approaching with global integration. An important part of this approximation and the constitution of liberalised trade with the main trading partners, in which our economy is given the opportunity to place its products on the market in other countries under the same conditions, thereby helping to increase exports and increase the employment of our capacities. The most efficient way in which the state can provide more favourable conditions to exporters is to conclude bilateral and/or multilateral free trade and use contracts. Our agreements are based on examples of standards and guidelines of the European Union and the World Trade Organisation, which have full international credibility and will allow BiH to access the World Trade Organisation faster. To mention that during the past period with a lot of efforts by the Council of Ministers, all BiH institutions, the Presidency and the Parliamentary Assembly, have invested in the conclusion of bilateral free trade agreements with Croatia, Yugoslavia, Macedonia, Turkey and Slovenia and negotiations are under way with Romania, Bulgaria, Albania and Moldova. So with all countries it is envisaged that by the end of this year with all countries in the region on the basis of commitments... The Stability Pact respects the envisaged arrangements. To mention, too, that we have succeeded in obtaining and privileged, i.e. the conditions of privileged imports by the European Union, Russia, Switzerland, Norway, Japan, the United States, Slovakia, New Zealand, Canada and Hungary, and if all of these benefits are extremely useful, especially when they are unilateral, as is the case with BiH with security, it can be said that for BiH the most favourable preferences are approved by the European Union and by Švajcarska both because of their coverage and because 44% of BiH exports have been targeted at the European Union market in the last four years and 6% in Switzerland. Similarly, the European Union unilaterally allows exports without customs duties and quantitative restrictions for 99% of Bosnian Herzegovina goods. This should also be added to the conclusion of other international agreements that create a condition for improving economic relations and these trade agreements, we have concluded them since last March with India, Rumuni, Pakistan, Switzerland, Ukraine and some other countries and agreements on improving and protecting investments with the Czech Republic, Yugoslavia, Kuwait, Macedonia, Germany, Pakistan, Portugal, Romania, Slovenia, Spain, Ukraine, etc. I'm talking, etc. as since the period of writing this interpretation, we have already concluded several bilateral arrangements and trade agreements and agreements on protection and improvement of investments. When it comes to the creation of new legislation, a very important precondition for the establishment of our economic system to strengthen the state institutions and create an adequate legislative framework for the approximation of European integration. This therefore pays great attention to the work, in particular the Ministry of Foreign Trade and are prepared or at the final stage are the following legislation from the economic field. It's short, and if I know it's not called the power law, that's the law on transmission, etc. the electricity system, then the Consumer Protection Act on concessions on free zones of veterinary, industrial ownership, competition on copyright, external trade chamber, amendments to the customs tariff on plant protection, etc. A total of 19 economic laws from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations last March. Some of these laws have been defined as you know by the package, the Rod map economic package, the European Union Roadmap and their adoption have removed all obstacles to future activities in bringing BiH closer to European integration. When it comes to reforms in the social policy sector, short-term developments and changes in the area of social protection have not been made, as 32 focussed on physical reconstruction and the return of refugees and displaced ones. Social assistance and childcare have been trying to transition from humanitarian aid to establishing a sustainable system. And, if legal frameworks are passed
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3103	I'm just asking a little patience to hear from the minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3104	And if legal frameworks have been passed, real rights have not changed significantly since the pre-war period. Short. A serious effort to establish social sustainability began in 2000, and so far the next shifts in pension reform have become a regular and eliminated debt buildup. In the development of a system of healthcare funding and in the field of work, they have led to greater flexibility in regulating working relationships and reducing employers. Also in strengthening the institutional framework for the management of social protection policy through the formation of entity interresor working groups. One of the biggest problems is insufficient funding, with only 0.7% in RS 1.1% in 2000 in the Federation of Social and Child Protection. For example, the allocations for social and children's protection in 2000 in Macedonia were 1.6 in Croatia 1.9 in Bulgaria 1.4 in Latvia 2.4 Estonia 2.1, etc. Short, construction and reconstruction of infrastructure, the priority, post-war infrastructure reconstruction programme is largely completed and is located before the end of many sectors, which means that the base infrastructure, roads, electrical system, bodybuilding, airports, heating, etc. able to offer approximately the level of services at pre-war level. In some areas such as housing has not yet reached that level. However, this achieved level is a minimum for establishing basic conditions for the life of the population and the current level of activity, and if it does not meet the need for accelerated growth and development in the medium term is a basis for continuous efforts, continued efforts to continue and unarpede construction infrastructure facilities. It is only short to note that, with the help of international financial institutions over the past year and a half, we have managed to start and end negotiations and the next major investment procedures. The modernisation of the BiH rail system is the total value of 120m KM of the arrangement concluded with the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. In addition, build and introduce a new way of managing the electricity system with a total value of 320 million KM World Bank, the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development Project... 3. Furthermore, the construction and modernisation of the road network, the total value of 180 million marks, also with the World Bank and the European Investment Bank and the construction of the highway at the entrance to Sarajevo and civil aviation in the area of air traffic, the OPAS Project, the OPAS programme for training civilian aviation structures to take over from SFOR after the transition period. This job is mostly a success. With these authorities in BiH, only these three areas have launched investments worth over 600 million marks to be realised in the last 3-4 years. The 33 are mainly financed through concession loans and, given the character of the works, it is expected that most will be realised through the use of domestic capacities. When it comes to coordinating aid to unify the way we use and improve locations of available resources, we created a project through which for the first time in close inter-resorship cooperation and cooperation between different governments will establish a process of selecting priorities and defining our priorities. This extensive project will take three years and will enable our institutions to make quality and plan-based response plans for co-operation with international donors and improve internal coordination. Due to its importance, the project has received full support for the UN development programme and more bilateral donors. To mention only that the issue has been coordinated, i.e. coordination of assistance, a full-scale mechanism in the RS government at the level of the Council of Ministers at the Ministry of Foreign Trade, it is expected that the government of the Federation of BiH will soon be set up. Finally, our current level of socio-economic development does not give reason for satisfaction. Bosnia and Herzegovina has been through a decade marked by the terrible and suffering and sufferings of the population, physical destruction and collapse of economic activity, and all in the ambience of the absence of the rule of law and permanent political instability and uncertainty, this has led us to the level of the most underdeveloped and poorest countries of Europe with only the beginning of the transition process. The current political set, immediately after taking over the instruments, was carried out and the legislative authorities began to unblock and speed up processes that had been hampered by lack of political will for a long time. In the field, they hired a maximum of the power required and managed significantly to launch the process of economic reforms. It is a long list of achievements the Council of Ministers has achieved over the past period, but this review mainly focused on the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, given that the interpretation focused on issues in the area of the ministry's belief. The analysis should also take into account the limited instrumentation for the management of economic policies and limited competences at the state level. This certainly poses an obstacle to the action, i.e. more effective resolution of our current difficulties and greater efficiency, and in this respect co-operation between executive and legislative segments of government is one of the key preconditions for implementing reforms. On many examples, we have seen that when these co-operation and understanding were not fully understood that important projects were slowed down, which had direct consequences for economic growth and poverty standards. The urgency of the current socio-economic situation requires all of us to advance the negotiation and decision-making process. I will allow myself, at last, on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, which I have led in the last year and a half to thank the House of Peoples, or the College of the House of Peoples and all the delegates of the House for the co-operation that has indeed been successful in the last year and a half. You have successfully adopted a set, a whole set of these laws that have been a presumption of future activities related to BiH's accession to the European Union, very important laws that have been a premise for the start of reforms in certain segments that the energy sector in the veterinary sector, many other 34 areas that we have launched, especially in the last year and a half. Thank you all. Thank the chairman, I'm at your disposal for questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-30-0.u3105	I thank Minister Hadžiahmetović. Ladies and gentlemen, you've heard the presentation of the Honorable Minister. Is there anyone else who can relate to this impelation to the word? There's no one here. We are concluding the debate on Mr Ibrahim Spahić's interpretation. We're moving to the final item of the agenda. Ad.12. The adoption of the report on the work of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy has given you a written report. I'm opening a debate. Nobody's answering. I suggest we adopt this report. Who's in? - 11 11 for no one abstentioned anyone against. I find that we unanimously adopted the report. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to thank you for your patience, thank you for your contribution to this session today. I invite you to a nice cocktail to freshen up and, of course, welcome, hall to us and all the journalists, so I invite guests who attend today's session.
