ParlaMint-BA_2002-10-01-0.u7908	Dear MPs, distinguished guests, respected representatives of information funds. I am opening the 32nd session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to the meeting, the chairman and members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the European Union, the Observation Mission in BiH, representatives of the embassies who expressed interest in monitoring the work of the Parliamentary Assembly, representatives of the Central Bank. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to report to you that Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija's distinguished representatives, Mr. Mirko Banjac, have asked us to justify their absence for the inability to attend today's session. Dear Representative Mr. Halil Mehtić announced he would be one hour late. PDP representative club, SNSD, SND, the SPRS has requested that the session be postponed due to the inability of MPs to attend due to earlier commitments. The HDU's representative club also reported that today's session could not be present and requested that it be postponed for Friday (October 4th). I konstatirati that no one else asked for a postponement, simply, you know that we once delayed the session for the reason that two SDS clubs and this mixed SNSD, PDP, SNS asked for a delay for this reason we couldn't have a quorum, the session was delayed for this time. So, there was no reason to delay the unit, and that's why we started the session, and I don't think it's right that the last day we're postponing the president, but it's obvious that we today, we have 25 MPs today. We'd have a quorum, but we don't have an RS quorum, we have a Federation 22 from Republika Srpska 3. We from the College and the Expansive College expected that today we have one final session so that we can sum up what we've done in these two years and adopt certain laws that, I say, are very important and that wouldn't require much work. But obviously today's session won't be able to take place today, and we're in an extended college position to try again until the election, so until Saturday. Our proposal, from an opportunity to make it Friday or Thursday, willfully say Friday or Thursday. We will also consult with the Electoral Commission, it is a day of pre-election silence, but I think that nothing would prevent us from simply having a session and adopting these several very important laws, noting again, the Veterinary Law and this credit agreement of the development credit between BiH and the International Association for Development, and the man's money is operational 2 if we adopt it now, if we do not question it and it was a law on citizenship required to be adopted under Article 105 and a few other issues that matter. Therefore, I propose that we conclude today's session, not to determine today whether it's Thursday or Friday, we will make sure that today, as soon as possible, we inform all of you and your clubs today when the session will take place. That was the attitude of both the Expansive College and the College of Ropes. Here's only one intervention there's a gentleman, is it about this one? We can't work, you can only make suggestions when to hold. The point is to close. So, the session will be held on Thursday or Friday depending on the position and the Election Commission and today the announcement will go. We prefer Friday. The seat's been cut off from work. 3 non-authorised transcript below 32. MEMBER STATES OF THE PARLAMENTARY COMMUNITY OF BOSS AND HERCEGOVINA, held on 4.10.2002 starting at 11:25 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests, I am opening the 32nd session of the Parliamentary House of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina At the meeting are the presidents and members of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH who are here, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the European Union, representatives of the Observer mission to BiH, representatives of the embassy of foreign countries, representatives of UNBiH, representatives of the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are 38 MPs present. The absence was justified by the esteemed representative Mr Ivo Lozančić for his official trip. So we have a quorum for work and decision-making. From 42 to 38, I point out at the beginning, if someone hasn't taken a picture, you can do it today. As you know, we postponed the 32nd session on October 1st for lack of quorum. At the time, we had no conditions to determine the agenda. We've also delayed session 24 before, too, because we didn't have a quorum. Several introductory sentences I am obliged to say regarding the delay and the need to hold a session, however. We have last said that there are several laws and several questions that would be good for us to do in this term, and therefore, regardless of your obligations and pre-election campaign and everything about the election, we have decided to hold the session on the day of election silence. Also, we asked the Electoral Commission for a case-by-case position on whether today's session is a violation of the election kickout, we also got their position that we can hold a session, with everyone taking care that today doesn't take too much care of the campaign. Therefore, we have, just in case, shared with everyone that you have a letter from the Election Commission, for the reason that we are more efficient and that this session today is the crown for the successful work of this House of Representatives. We, too, have considered that today we have a reduced agenda, to finish what is possible in this term. So we're not going to what's in the procedure that we can't possibly, objectively, spend, because we're probably not going to be in session. Therefore, the Extended College was placed on the table to find minutes from the 31st session of the House of Representatives, to find a report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of an agreement on the single text of the Law on Veterinary Use in BiH and to find a point of agenda granting consent for ratification 4a) of the Development Credit Agreement Project on the management of solid waste between BiH and the International Association for Development, and (b) of the International Convention on Plant Protection also, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives, I am obliged as chairman to put on the agenda the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Amendments to the Law on Citizenship of BiH by an urgent procedure. Article 105. The Rules of Procedure say when the proposal for a high degree of urgency or a proposal for a law which is not so complex that it can be adopted or rejected completely, the Proposer may ask the House to consider it in writing in a single reading. The request referred to in the previous paragraph shall be submitted by the Chairman of the Early House at his first session. First next session. The House will decide on the request after the debate. That is why I have also suggested that the agenda discuss the requirement for the draft law amending the BiH Citizenship Act to be considered by an urgent procedure in line with the Council of Ministers' request. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Bogić Bogićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-10-01-0.u7910	Dear colleagues, I propose that the Presidency, on behalf of the Members of the Social Democratic Party of BiH, be included in the agenda of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, which did not receive consent at the Extended College and was in the proposal, because the Law was passed on to the House of Nations on 26 July 2002 by emergency procedure and since the seventh month is in the procedure of our home, and Number Two, I appeal to all MPs, or representatives to today accept the proposal by the Council of Ministers that the Law amending the Law on Citizenship of BiH should be considered under Article 105. It has only one point, where it is replaced by 15 years, which allows hundreds of thousands of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina around the world not to lose BiH citizenship in December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-10-01-0.u7911	I thank the esteemed representative Bogić Bogićević. Is anyone else picking up? The word has a distinguished representative of Mr. Brka and may the distinguished representative of Mr. Bilbija be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-10-01-0.u7912	I thank the Honorable Chairman for giving me the opportunity to suggest something that I think can only be plus for this House of Representatives so that he doesn't stay behind and finish the job. Namely, last session was scheduled, I was surprised when I got this agenda, under number six to be a report by the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum on visits to a number of criminal and correctional institutions in BiH. And the morning I got that on the table, there was no new agenda. I'd just like to explain very meekly and very clearly, and I think it's for this home for all MPs just one plus. There's no need for him to stay out of business. 5 In fact, you, at least through the means of information, have all learned that we have visited five criminal-priority constitutionals in BiH, that on 17 September we had a session of the Commission where we all attended a session of the Commission unanimously adopted 18 conclusions. I think those conclusions, indeed, may be subjective, but I think they're really top-notch. You received them on 24 September, all MPs received that record and these conclusions and I think that there really is not one disputed one and I would like as chairman of the Commission that no work is left behind and if we don't put this on the agenda today it will remain the only one that this commission has taken over to work in this term. That's why I'm asking all the MPs, it doesn't take a lot of time, you've all had those conclusions. You've probably all read it. I'd like to ask you to put it on the agenda and make sure we don't get any work done behind our work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-10-01-0.u7913	I would like to thank Mr. Brk's esteemed representative. The word has been given to Mr. Bilbija's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-10-01-0.u7914	Madam Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, honored guests, on behalf of the Club, I would like to stress that we have met here today both on a working and formal basis to round up this part of the mandate which, if we had and I would like to warn you that what we cannot constitutionally and businessly round up should not even be considered. I think we've done a lot in the course of our term of office, within the limits of our possibilities, and yet we've done a lot. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Nationality has not yet even considered the House of Peoples, with this today and when we would adopt it, it is in fact not a valid law in BiH and I want to warn you about it. Same situation with the High Court Council Act. Meanwhile, there were changes and additions. We can't round it up either. So, I'd like to finish this.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-10-01-0.u7915	Do you have a suggestion?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-10-01-0.u7916	I just want to warn you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-10-01-0.u7917	Does he have you straight? So, good. The word has been given by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mikerević.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-10-01-0.u7918	Respected Presidency, honourable MPs, I want to run here in front of the Council of Ministers for one point that you probably dropped on the College, I don't know for reasons unknown to me, was the initiative of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, it's the appointment of the State Energy Commission of the Derk. On the basis of the shortened name of the electricity law, we have practically regulated it in a way that entity parliaments are running and proposing people for the post of members of the 6 commission. This was done by the parliaments of the RS and the Federation of BiH and we, if we really don't take it here today to simply approve this proposal, we will stop the realization and delay the implementation of Project PAUER 3. It would cost BiH very expensive, and in that sense I would like to hear from you whether there really is a mood and if you were discussing it today before we can't do other things, we can't start both the headquarters and the electrotransmission of BiH and I would ask you to take a stand on this issue. I must warn of the consequences of the delay in making this decision on the implementation of this PAUER 3 project.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-10-01-0.u7919	Thank you. I'm just saying that it's just come out that there's been no phase with us or the commission or anyone else. The word has a respected representative, Mr Jovanović. Anyone else want one?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-10-01-0.u7920	Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen, last time I said that I wanted to, and now I want to repeat, because of the irresponsibility of the Council of Ministers to answer parliamentary questions, so my only resistance is that today, I am voting against everything that comes from the Council of Ministers. So, I repeat, today I vote against everything proposed by the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-10-01-0.u7921	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Jovanović. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Adem Borić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-10-01-0.u7922	I would ask that, on behalf of the House of Representatives, Mr. Mario Ljubić congratulated the volleyball players in the first place in the sitting volleyball. That's all.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-10-01-0.u7923	I thank Mr. Adem Borić for this proposal. So, on behalf of the House of Representatives, I'm going to give my congratulations to our volleyball players on such a great success. I thank you for the suggestion of a respected representative, Mr. Borić. Anyone else want to propose a change of agenda? He doesn't want to. We've had a few here. Word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Bilbija.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-10-01-0.u7924	The Honorable Chairman, on behalf of the Club, before I declare my agenda, I demand a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-10-01-0.u7925	Half an hour. All right, I'm taking a 15-minute break. 7 So we're going back to the agenda. [[PAUZA]] We had a few suggestions here. Dear representative Mr. Bogićević suggested that the law on high court and prosecutorial council be included in the agenda. He also supported the vote on the National Law proposal. Dear Representative Mr. Brka suggests that a report by the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum of this House on a visit to a number of criminal-adjustment institutions be made to the daily ed ed ed ed ed ed ed ed ed. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mikerević, proposes that the draft decision on the appointment of members of the State Regulatory Commission for Electrical Energy should take place on the agenda. We'll have to make a statement about all the suggestions. I note for this fourth item of the agenda that no one is, the one proposed by the Council of Ministers' chairman that our bodies have not been considered, has not been considered by the House of Peoples, and needs confirmation of both homes, the procedure here is a bit specific, entities suggest members, with members to be voted individually. As far as I've seen, that decision doesn't say anything but names. So, I don't know, there should be some reasons for us to know the years of birth. Okay, we're going back to the agenda. So, I'm putting it on the line, is there anyone else to discuss? Mema. To declare the proposal of the distinguished representative Mr. Bogić Bogićević to include the law on high court and prosecutorial advice in the agenda of today's session. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Thank you. The abstentions? Of the 35 who are there, 25 voted against 1-9 abstentions, we will also need to enlighten the entity vote. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Thank you. Who's from RS for? Thank you. From the Federation of BiH 22 for RS 3 for. So he didn't get the necessary majority going for a match. Branka, do we need the Citizenship Act right away? I suggest we make a statement about the proposal and we will return to the Citizenship Act on the proposal of Mr. Brcko's distinguished representative. To include a report by the Commission on human rights, immigration, refugees and asylum on a visit to a number of criminal and correctional institutions. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? Of the 37 who are there, 26 for – without votes against – 11 abstentions. We need an entity vote. 8 Who's from RS for? Thank you. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Thank you. 23 from the Federation of BiH for – 3 from RS for. So, he didn't get the necessary majority going for a match. There's no way. It's there sometimes. I am putting forward a proposal by the Chair of the Council of Ministers for the inclusion of the agenda item Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the State Regulatory Commission for Energy. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. The abstentions? Of the 37 who voted, 24.1 against, and 11 abstentions. Entirely. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Thank you. Who's from Republika Srpska for? Thank you. The Federation of BiH 22 for and from RS 3 for. So it wasn't the agenda. Now we have to get back to one more question. So for today's agenda, it is proposed between point 2 and the Council of Ministers' request to discuss the draft law amending the BiH Citizenship Act. I made that proposal to the House. There was a demand here to be. There's nothing to ask. No one asked to take off their clothes. So we've adopted the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-10-01-0.u7926	We don't. He has to be voted on.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-10-01-0.u7927	Here, explain your business if you have it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-10-01-0.u7928	He's about to determine the Extended College must vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-10-01-0.u7929	Who's to be on the agenda. It's not a fact, but there's no confusion. Who is it to include on the agenda of today's session the requests of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Citizenship of BiH by an urgent procedure, Article 105? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Out of 39, 28 for, 1 against, 8 abstentions. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Thank you. Who's from RS for? Thank you. Federation of BiH 26 for, RS 3 for. 9 So it's not in the agenda, it's someone else to discuss the request. Since the agenda for today's session is 1. Minutes from the 31st session of the House of Representatives, 2. Report by the Joint Commission on the conclusion of the Agreement on the Single Text of the Veterinary Act in BiH, 3. Giving consent to ratification (a) the Development Credit Agreement between BiH and the International Association for Development (b) of the International Convention on Plant Protection. Since this is harmonised, there's no need to vote on it. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad. 1. The minutes from the 31st session of the House of Representatives have been received from the 31st session of the House of Representatives. Does anyone suggest any changes and additions to the minutes? It can always intervene. If no one answers, I'll close the debate. I suggest we adopt the minutes from the 31st session of the House of Representatives. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. I find the record adopted unanimously with 39 votes in favour. Thank you. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. Ad. 2. The Joint Commission's report on the achievement of the Agreement on the Single Text of the Veterinary Act in BiH has reached an Agreement on the Unique Text of the Veterinary Act. I'm opening a debate on the report. Since no one's answering, I'm concluding a hearing about the report. I suggest we plead that we accept the Joint Commission's report. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. 10 I find that out of 39 who voted 39 voted in favour. So we adopted the BiH Veterinary Act. Because the House of Nations adopted the same account. Come on, we finally got to the bottom of this. Thank you. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. Ad. 3. Giving consent to ratifying a) the Development Credit Agreement between BiH and the International Development Association Does anyone want to explain? He doesn't want to. Do any of the distinguished MPs want to discuss it or not? I hereby conclude and propose that we give consent to ratify this agreement. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? I do not konstatirati the House of Representatives unanimously with 39 votes to agree on the ratification of the BiH Development Credit Agreement and the International Development Association. Under b) International Convention on Plant Protection I am opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I suggest we support this convention. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. I find the House of Representatives unanimously with 39 votes to agree on the ratification of the International Convention on Plant Protection. Now. We're at the end of today's agenda. I am certainly also taking the opportunity here to thank all of you distinguished representatives for your cooperation here and with us from the College, and also for your efforts, your efforts, which have helped the House of Representatives to still be the strongest and most stable link in the BiH institutions chain. That won't make any members of the Council of Ministers angry. I think we've done a lot, we've done a lot of work, and I expect the next meeting to continue. I also thank all members of the Council of Ministers, and we worked together on the same path, on the same interest, and I think that cooperation was quite good. I also thank all members of the Bureau who clearly had other important obligations. 11 Now I would have you here for a little hanging out, for a cocktail, and certainly also respected MPs would get one memory of this mandate. The session was completed at 12.40 hours.
