ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2410	Dear delegates, distinguished guests, representatives of public information funds, I am opening the 19th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. A sufficient number of delegates attend the session. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that there are 14 delegates attending today's session. From the order of the Serb people 5 of the Bosniak people 4 in the order of the Croatian people 5. So I find that today's session has a covorum. We can make full-time and full-time decisions. I would also like to announce to the public that he has announced his absence from this session for the sake of international obligations by BiH's chairman, Mr. Beriz Belkić, and the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr. Dragan Mikerević. But today, on behalf of the Presidency, a member of the Bureau is present, Mr Križanović, and I welcome him. On behalf of the Council of Ministers, we also have those present and I think we will get the necessary clarifications regarding the agenda point. For the 19th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the following agenda is proposed: 1. The draft budget of the BiH institutions and international commitments for 2002; 2. Proposal for a law on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international obligations; 3. Resolution on the original financing of BiH institutions and international obligations – proposed delegate Sejfudin Tokić. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Is anyone answering for a word? Here you go. I'm asking you for a little explanation. Since the College has scheduled this session, related to the budget and budget implementation, that we have maximumly shortened the procedure. I'd like to adopt this agenda today and I think this is a shortened procedure and we shouldn't be having discussions that would require an extension of the agenda, because there is no such possibility today. So, I would ask, given that this is a shortened procedure and that it concerns only the budget and budget implementation, unless there is a direct need to open a debate on the extension of the agenda points to plead on this proposal. If anyone, however, wants to, here we give him a chance. Mr. Halid Genjac appears for his word and behind him is Mr. Goran the Turjačanin. Here you go. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2412	Ladies and gentlemen of esteemed colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests, I would not say that this is a direct procedure. This is a very long procedure, because this procedure takes six months, and since the procedure lasts six months, the basic question is whether this is an emergency session, an emergency session or a session like everyone else. If there is an emergency session, then the agenda places the points that are only a cause. If it is urgent, the most urgent and important issues are put in place, and by my understanding, since a member of the Rules of Procedure is invited, this is an emergency session and I think it is far more urgent questions than some of the issues that have been raised on the agenda. For example, it was far more urgent to put the laws on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2413	I'm just asking you to suggest that you give your position, what was urgent, and what was more urgent is, do you have a proposal to supplement the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2414	Comrade Špirić, respect my parliamentary rights. Don't be nervous. I'm explaining my proposal, and within the deadline, I'm going to propose it. So it was far more important to put the laws on the agenda than to adopt those laws, and the declaration of some laws is an honorable word at the end of the term, that we adopt some laws that we have not adopted in the whole term. Secondly, I propose that the first item of the agenda be the report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2001. Explanation. Under the current law on the implementation of the budget of last year, the Council of Ministers is required by 30 March to submit the Bureau to the Parliamentary Assembly a report on the implementation of the budget. We're in today's session on May 31st, we still don't have that agenda. A month ago, I asked what about the budget and the budget report, the College replied that they were waiting for the House of Representatives, and in the Rules of Procedure there is an explicit obligation for the College to speed up and prepare that obligation to be fulfilled. So, I propose the first item of the agenda report on the implementation of the BiH institutions budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2415	I would like to thank the delegate, Mr. Genjac. Mr. Goran Turjačanin's delegate came forward for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2416	Dear Chairman, gentlemen of the delegates, esteemed ladies and gentlemen of the guests, I just want to make an observation about the materials that I received today at the House of Peoples session, that, however, what we have recently implemented in constitutional changes at BiH level and that future materials, indeed, as a member of the Serbian Parliament Club, I am getting in the language of the Serb people and that I am getting in Cyrillic writing form. That's one. 3 Under two, too, I ask that in the future, if I can provide professional services in a proposal for certain items on BiH's 2002 budget, these abbreviations of strong international obligations, associations, foundations, etc., however, not to mention writing in the full name and last name of something not to say to the CR, etc. Because I, however, am not able to follow all those powers so as not to say abbreviations and what they essentially mean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2417	I thank Mr. Turjačanin. This was a comment, it wasn't a proposal to supplement the agenda, and if I agree with his suggestions. Is there anyone else on the agenda? He's not answering. I conclude the debate, noting that in the conclusion of the House of Peoples, we have defined today's agenda at the last session. I suggest we first declare Mr. Genjac's request to discuss the budget implementation report. Unfortunately, I have to say, we don't have that report. There's no telling who's supposed to be proposing that report. So, I'm sorry, we're going to put this point to the plea, but just so you know, there's no possibility that today we're discussing this material that doesn't exist yet, but we're not going to deny the right of the delegates to propose a new agenda point. Who's for this part of the agenda? Who's against it? Who's being held back? 4 abstentions – 8 versus – 2 for. I find that this point has not been adopted. Who's for the proposed agenda you got in the call? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? 12 for – 2 abstentions. I understand that the agenda that you received in favour is adopted by 12 votes in favour and 2 votes against. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. The draft budget of the BiH institutions and international commitments for 2002 We first hold a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is drawn up under Article 90. Rules of Procedure. I am opening a debate with one small note, ladies and gentlemen, in the College, and I hope all the individual warnings from the Office of the Španija Ambassador, the European Union's chairman, are the last day BiH is due to receive the budget on 31 May or 30 May. I am only saying this for the reason that we are all aware of the responsibility to talk about the budget today and to send a strong message today that we have adopted the budget and that this has provided our country's financial arrangements with the World Bank and the IMF and that we are creating better economic conditions for BiH as a whole. Who's reporting for a budget debate in principle. So, in the first reading. Here you go. Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2418	Dear colleagues, speaking of a general budget debate, above all to say that BiH's budget is badly needed. So it's undeniable. The constitutional basis exists. The BiH institutions' budget and international commitments were necessary six months ago. Even four legal, or business obligations were to adopt it six months ago. Of course, in doing so, we were obliged to consider the report for the previous year, and based on these parameters, the items in the budget so that we could plan the budget for this year. I have today suggested putting on the agenda a budget report, at least today, after half a year has passed, at least today we have a budget implementation report. I was told there was no paper. Since the paper is not available today or five months after the deadline, I find it impossible to hold a debate on the BiH institutions' budget and international obligations. It's impossible to conduct an argument. It's possible we're having an argument to fool someone. It is possible to conduct a debate to achieve some goals, which are behind this speed, both behind the teat and the time ultimatum that BiH Parliamentary Assembly MPs have been brought before. So in the BiH institutions' budget, the spending side is about 492 million KM, with 292 million debts being serviced, the rest of which is 124 million liquid purposes. When liquid grants are excluded, capital expenditures, special purpose programmes, which are not created by the Council of Ministers or the Parliamentary Assembly, but are created by the IMF and other institutions, it remains, therefore, that out of the total figures in which the global budget moves, around 25% of the budget can be discussed in the proposal in a way that is distributed by the Council of Ministers and in our decision here. These 25% refer to the issue of salaries, journals, official travel, procurement, contracts on work, representation, etc. Now, believe me, these issues would generally be discussed, given the information about the predatory and insecure nature of the officials who appear in the media about the availability of funds in this first part of the year, I really need to have information about budget implementation for the previous year in order to compare the items. Maybe no amendment is necessary to these articles, maybe each of those items needs an amendment, and none of you here know it, and I don't know it. It is possible that some of the items here are already spent in the budget and my information says they are in certain items. So who are we kidding? Why are we adopting a budget with items that have already been spent? Last year we had, last year, at the end of the year the rebalancing, so everything that was done with the rebalancing, however, and that rebalance seems to be exceeded. This year, we may be counting on that rebalancing, but the question is whether or not we're going to have the funds and where to get that rebalancing. Therefore, regardless of what is urgent, regardless of what is clearly required by the IMF, I do not feel at all responsible for being brought to this, but I find it extremely irresponsible, not knowing the basic elements to discuss the budget even in principle. Thank you. For these reasons, I will have to be abstention with regard to the statement of the budget in principle, because, indeed, I have no elements.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2419	I'd like to thank the delegate, Genjac. Who's next to the word? Unless there's been any reports of squabbling. I'm closing the debate. I'm asking a question. Who is it to conduct a debate on members of the law and amendments, therefore, to move on to phase two? Who's in? - 11 for who's against it? - Who's being held back? So, with 11 for 1 against – 1 abstention, I realize that we adopted the BiH institutions' draft budget and international obligations for 2002 in the reading process. I'm opening a debate about another reading of this law. I would like to inform you that the Constitutional and Legal Commission and the Administrative Affairs and Finance Committee have met. Therefore, these amendments, which the delegates presented to the Commission, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and 5 have not been adopted by the Commission, also proposed to the House of Nature and I, therefore, am opening a debate on this draft budget in the second reading, related to the amendments. I would like to ask the Proposer if he has any need to explain the amendments so that they can both be made known on amendments and on the law as a whole. I'm opening a dispersion. Who answers the word. Mr. Ivo Divković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2420	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, the three representatives of the House of the Peoples of Mr. Tokić, me and Sušac have tabled an amendment, which you have here in front of you. The amendment concerns the requirement to include in the budget the item of an agent to represent BiH's lawsuits and disputes and arbitration before the International Court of First Instance in The Hague of 910,000 KM. In our explanation, we said that this position was necessary for us and we said that we needed this sum for the reason that certain accounts had already arrived with the financing of a court agent in The Hague and, on the basis of the accounts received and the cost assessment for this year, this sum would, on occasion, satisfy these needs. We also want to say that this would be the first time in the budget that, in a transparent way, this item is shown and that the state in a transparent way is spending these funds, because the current funding of the agents in The Hague has, in our opinion, been non-transparent, because these funds have not been in the budget and we do not know from which funds this agent has been financed. So this would be the first time in a transparent way for the budget item to be defined by the figure indicated, which is enough to finance and that BiH citizens know from which means and how it is done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2421	I thank Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2422	Mr. Špirić has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2423	Fellow delegates, distinguished guests, we have been having a hidden discussion for a long time, unfortunately, about the budget half-public or half-secret budget debate. This is the first time the House of Peoples, after eight and a half months in a scale with the Constitution, has been given a chance to talk about the BiH institutions' budget and international obligations and the law on budget implementation. I want to inform the public that the Club of Delegates from the RS, therefore, has also made a lot of remarks on the structure of the budget on the revenue and expenditure side of the budget, but simply that last night we decided to withdraw all amendments and create space and moods to adopt today this budget that BiH and its peoples and entities need through it. We are not ready to run different stories of pre-election, addressing our voters or citizens, and so I ask you today in the spirit of the task ahead of us, and I would like to ask today that others have spent time on parliament and not on the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives, knowing that the House of Representatives adopted the budget in the text that we have received, I would ask today that we really get the strength to send a strong message that we are aware of the errors of the executive authority at all levels and those who should have proposed the budget and that we are, right now, feeling the need for this country to get the budget for the various financial arrangements with international fines. The institutions today are ready to strongly support the draft budget that we have received from the Presidency and the Council of Representatives, aware of 6 that they are sinking an ideal document and that today we are sending a message to the Presidency that it is time from today to prepare the budget for the coming year, to have it by 15 October, as required by the Constitution and for the coming year they can provide everything that they delegate, with the first talk and right to show. So, I pulled the amendments I had. I am ready to support the text of the Budget Proposal that we have received from the Representative Council and I am ready to make a concrete contribution today to ensure that the debate is tolerated and constructive and that it applies only to the budget. Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Mr. Goran Turjačanin then Mr. Dragutin Ilić and then Mr. delegate Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2424	The Honorable Chairman, fellow delegates, I would only have understood in the follow-up of the discussion of President-in-Office of Mr. Špirić, a member of the Serbian People's Club, that, obviously, we did not fully understand the presence of the newly appointed High Representative for BiH, Mr. Eždaun, who in a quality way scanned the political body and politically, not to say, the BiH space and in a quality way apostrophe of all that is happening in BiH from the price of one politician, shortly before Mr. Genjac spoke here, from what this politician really does for the benefit of his people and I fear that slowly this speaker remains more resuming for the good vibrations that come from the international community towards BiH and development, what is called, the spirit of tolerance in building for the overall well-being in BiH. I msiliti that this speaker at today's session, which is very important because of BiH's upcoming developments on the international agenda, should be used exclusively, means constructively in the function of helping the people of BiH, not for, possibly, daily politics, or closing this BiH Parliamentary Assembly speaker for a speaker for the pre-election stands. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2425	I'd like to thank the Turjačanin delegate. The word is Mr. Dragutin Ilić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2426	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, distinguished guests, therefore, it is not disputed that today we should adopt the budget and budget law in the same text as the House of Representatives, but I would ask the Proposer to make three clarifications. It's about the expenditure side, so, in Article 3 of the Budget Act, I see at point 3.2, there's a lot of planned costs here.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2427	I'm asking you to just stick to the agenda. The first item of the agenda is the institution's draft budget, not the budget law. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2428	I'm sorry, the budget is, so point 3.2 of the expenditure at the Bureau at the liaison officer's office in The Hague, I see that there is, that the costs have increased from 568, so it's rebalanced to 994 and this year is forecasting a million and 563,000, so I'd like to know what are the great costs, or what is the urgency of that agent to make such a huge cost? Further, under point 3.6. The BiH Council of Ministers, therefore, is also related to this expenditure. Under point 4.1 of the special purpose programmes, the funds for the work of the cabinets of the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers were 200 000 in the previous year and rebalanced, too, and in this year I see that there are no means to do so, so that, when some chairors need some special funds and when others are chairman, they do not need it. Well, here, I'd like to ask that clarification at point 3.18. Regulatory Agency and Communications, I see that for employees' salaries, there is a budget of 2,250,000. I would really like to know how many employees this Regulatory Agency has and what their salaries are when this budget is almost higher than the expenses of the Parliamentary Assembly. That's what I wanted.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2429	I thank Mr. Ilić's delegate. Mr. Džaferović's delegate came forward for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2430	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the story, and if we're in a timeline, the budget story didn't start for this year, so it didn't start yesterday, it didn't start a month ago. A story on BiH institutions' budget of international commitments in 2002 began as early as January. when we received a draft budget from the Council of Ministers and a draft budget implementation law. I haven't heard from any speakers so far, and I think it would be right to tell the public what's actually been going on since January of the month until today and why we're in this situation where we are. The initial text of the budget contained an item relating to the financing of BiH's agent against the SRJ for aggression and genocide before the International Court of First Instance in The Hague at some amount of about 450,000 KM. We were in no position to discuss the budget until 10 or 15 days ago, until the second decision of the BiH presidency. Why? We're not because we had obstructions at the Constitutional Commission of Delegates of this home coming from the RS. So this is the truth. This should be known. I have come to meetings of the Constitutional Commission several times, two or three times, and whenever the agenda is tried to read the current text of the draft budget on the agenda, these fellow Commission sessions were abandoned and the Constitutional Commission had no opportunity since there was no quorum to assess something that was indisputable, because it is totally uncontestable that the BiH institutions and its international obligations for 2002 had the basis in the BiH Constitution. After that, about 15 days ago, if I am not mistaken, a session of the BiH presidency followed and then agreed to the BiH presidency, most of the votes that, practically, the obstructions of the adoption of the budget, so that, the article of the complaint's agent, was thrown out of the budget text. Afterwards, in particular, colleagues of Špirić are present with permanent appeals and calls for a necessary budget for BiH. Of course, a budget is necessary and the budget needs to be adopted as soon as possible. We believe that, in a concrete case, a very important and very important issue for BiH has been handled in a non-ceptive way. Several delegates of this house have tabled amendments to this new text of the draft budget in which 8 does not have this item. In fact, it exists in reserves, but the way it would be decided by the Council of Ministers, it's actually saying that those items are not in the budget, it's not in the way it's normal, it's supposed to be and it's in the original text of the draft budget. Several of us delegates from this home, we have made amendments, Dr Genjac and I a group of amendments, Mr Tokić, Sušac and Divković, I think, but it is not mine to talk about their amendments. One other group of amendments of similar or same content, different volumes for formal reasons insisting on the return of the item to the budget in the way it was in the original text. Since this is a very important issue for BiH, since this parliament as a representative of the people of BiH and a representative of the citizens of BiH, I am talking about Parliament having an obligation to take care of the citizens of BiH and their interests that this should be done by the state, that the issue of BiH's suit against Yugoslavia before the International Court of Justice in The Hague is very important and very important, an essential issue for both the BiH state and its peoples and citizens. We propose to adopt the amendments tabled by Dr. Genjac and I. After that, we would be willing to adopt an amendment vote for this budget. If the amendments don't pass, I want to say here that for these reasons I've been talking about, we can't support the text of the Budget Proposal as it is right now. That the situation is very sensitive and very difficult also shows the way the Finance Commission works and the budget of this House which, by voting on these amendments, has actually had a very confusing situation in this first amendment. The text on my insistence to clarify the situation on the commission has been said that Amendment I dg Genjac and I did not get the necessary majority. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2431	I thank the delegate Džaferović, and I want the public to work just to say that the budget is the only document that we are obliged to consider business after considering it in the House of Representatives, that the College is the House of Peoples, and all of you, together with us, are aware of this responsibility that we have shortened the procedure only for two days. So, since the predstavnički of Representatives ended the plea, within two days we also scheduled the Commission's phase, etc. The second thing is, unfortunately, that the budget has been converted into a purely political document. I warn you that he is an economic-financial and, among other things, a political document. That is why today I call on all delegates not to turn the budget into a purely political document, to talk about budget items, to simply ask for a debate on amendments and to make a statement on amendments. It's the only logical path on which we're going to leave the impression of a serious home and serious delegates and, please, let's just stick to one orderly procedure. Mr Rodić answered the word and Mr Novaković followed it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2432	Mr. Chairman, respected fellow delegates, I just want to, and I will tell for the sake of the public and the truth, to clarify to the end certain issues that have been going on, because Mr. Džaferović has told one part of that truth and that story and I have to say what, first of all, I want to say as a man, to explain that as a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, I don't generally like to deal with instructions, especially when such important documents are on the agenda. Why do I say that? Why delegates and members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission were not, I say, ready to support the originally proposed budget is a much deeper and much more important story for those who have heard it here. 9 Practically, when the BiH presidency proposed a budget, you all know well that a member of the RS presidency vetoed the budget. After that, in the procedure that followed and which is foreseen under the BiH Constitution. The National Assembly of the RS decided by two-thirds that it was a conclusion of vital interest. When we pointed to the fact, and especially we delegates who were elected in front of that people's congregation, we must, above all, respect decisions when it comes to such matters. That was why the two of us didn't support the original text of the budget. There was never enough readiness to talk about the budget in one constructive way, but the whole time there was only one item that was problematic. It was not a problem, nor a constitutional-legal basis, but was only a problematic item when it comes to an agent at an international court in The Hague. For this reason, I would like to say that now is the opportunity to overcome both politics and adopt the budget, as proposed, because I don't think any other story leads BiH in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2433	I thank Delegate Rodić, please, the agenda point is not to determine the truth about the budget, but to the budget of the institutions for 2002, so I invite you to open the debate on amendments and bring this item to the agenda in the way that we are going to declare ourselves in order. So I ask the delegates not to go back to what happened and how it was. Today we have a chance to make a statement about the Budget Proposal, not about what happened before. The word has been given by delegate Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2434	Dear Chairman, members of the College, fellow delegates, esteemed guests, I can't help but say a few words about such an important document and my increasing everything that's happened and what's going on about this. First of all, I want to say that last year we sent a very strong message to the Presidency and to the Council of Ministers that the budget cannot be adopted in this way. The result is that this year we're adopting the budget in exactly the same way. I'm not gonna talk about who brought it. I won't even comment on the accusation that this is the result of obstruction by Serbian delegates, because I have a completely different opinion that I believe, those who have made the first point can't convince anyone and that's why I don't think I'm discussing it. I will comment on the shortest amendments to this year's budget. Especially, of course, a controversial amendment relating to the financing of an agent's suit. I am not going to talk about the position of Serbian delegates, because he is quite clear so far several times expressed and publicly nor will I speak of the position of the National Assembly, because she has made her position clear to the two-thirds majority. But I can't understand the argument that this should be in the budget because we already owe something for this, because we're already in charge of this amount or some. I didn't hire anyone. I didn't make any decision to put someone in charge. Whoever's in charge, get him back. Of course, insignificant. Given the fact that, that is, that we are all here today to know, that it is necessary today to end the procedure for adopting the budget, then I consider, indeed, the ultimate irresponsibility of insistence on amendments to this session, which are not in the proposal adopted by the House of Representatives. I'm not going to characterize it with any more difficult words, but in any case those who have submitted these amendments are aware of these facts, which says it's an election campaign. Neither I nor my colleagues from RS will participate in the election campaign. It's in a place too high for an election campaign. For me, such a way is one irresponsibility towards both the Parliamentary Assembly and BiH institutions, so if you will according to this act itself, which we all claim is significant here. We will take item 10 on the budget, of course, by voting, but I will repeat once again, that the Club of delegates of the Serb people will not accept any amendment, which in any way returns the process for two reasons. First, because we believe it prevents the adoption of the budget, and drugi, because it deeply affects the interests of the Serbian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2435	I thank Mr. Novaković. Who's next to the word? The word is Mr. Munib Jusufović, followed by another deputy, Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2436	Mr. Chairman, honourable member of the Presidency, Mr. Ministers, fellow delegates, I will try to and, if this is one of the most serious issues that we really have in one serious way to approach this debate, certainly to state my position on this issue with one indication that it is very difficult to discuss some issues, particularly about such significance, when it comes to the last moment and when it comes to taking or leaving. Unfortunately, we have brought ourselves into such a situation and not that I do not understand the importance of today's session and debate, followed this debate ourselves at the House of Representatives and as much as we listen to you here colleagues, at the same time as I followed the House of Representatives, all speeches will not be engaged in political, pre-election, etc. and apparently no one escaped from it as well as my colleague Novaković and everyone who was here was Džaferović, etc. I may not be able to avoid that trap, though, here, I'm trying to avoid it. I want to simply and briefly say that what has been the reason for this debate not to end over the matter of the budget, you yourself have said that you have been going out what was the reason, the discrepancies of certain positions. I can give my own opinion that, I think it's very sloppy or wrong and this position is formulated on the budget, which has caused in a certain way, here are all these dilemmas and polemics. It is quite logical that each state in its budget in its budget, i.e. in its budget, there is one item which comes from the occasion of legal disputes, arbitration, etc. But I don't know how there was a formula like this that in a certain way caused all of this to happen. I say, I'll try to avoid the trap that way, which I won't allow myself to think about whether there's a lawsuit or not. She exists. There's no dilemma and there's going to be, and I'm not even going to think about it in some of the final settings. So that's decadently clear. Whether there is a position or not here or in reserves or elsewhere. If it doesn't even exist, I want to express a clear attitude and principled both of my and the parties from which I am, yes, even if there is no such means anywhere, we will in a legal and legitimate way make sure that these funds are found and that this process continues. However, when, let me move on, that's my point of view very clearly. When it comes to amendments, or groups of amendments, which we discussed on the committee, right in front of this session, on the commission, I think about budgets and finances, I have made it clear that I am for the two groups of amendments that are mentioned today, and in the end, through the vote, we will also tell about those amendments that bring this issue back to where they belong. So, when there's a vote and we'll make a statement about it. My position, too, is clear that, we have shown it on the commission, it seems to me that something counterpart Džaferović was saying about it, neither he nor I today resorted to a method that has been resorted to so far by certain colleagues from other committees, is mentioned here when deciding on some very important issues. We could have left the commission, so the commission doesn't have a quorum and it doesn't work, but that's what I'd understand is that it's obstruction. 11 Therefore, we decide on each of the most difficult issues, whether they pass or not, the majority enough, that is the second question. My final position on the decision-making process for yes or no on the budget will then be to make a decision on, or a statement on the amendments, but after Mr. Tokić comes forward, I would ask you to take a break. So, in front of the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2437	In front of the club. I thank Mr. Jusufović. Rijeka has a delegate, second Deputy Mr. Sejfudin Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2438	Chairman, honored gentlemen of the delegates and envoys, at the outset, I'd really like to argue that we're not accusing anyone of amendments. The debate on amendments, proposing amendments is the obligations of MPs, delegates, and regardless of the decision of the College, which we have chosen to try to complete in two days the whole procedure, and I think there is enough time for all amendments to be taken into account in one tolerated way, let us look at it and by voting on these amendments. So, I'm not a supporter of that kind of approach when we don't respond to the amendment, so don't anyone give amendments when we're in favor of amendments why don't you accept any amendments. Amendments are the usual procedure and it would be good if you always had the same attitude in this respect. What I stand for, I advocate with all who have discussed so far, is that we have the responsibility and the obligation to end this session in a way that passes the budget and the budget law, because it's an imp... There have been discussions here that I agree with, but objectively there is no room for us to make special conclusions today, but I want, since the public highlighted this item, indeed, to express preparedness, so I would dare say even the College to prepare a special point on the work of the Gegulatory Commission, which is our institution and from the aspect of their salaries and from the aspect of the action and in a certain way, and these people there are aware that the BiH institution is and I think we can agree together some form of discussion about it, but now is not the time to discuss it according to the budget. No matter how much we argue here, no matter what decision we make, the lawsuit in this house is not disputed. The suit is being challenged in The Hague. There's a place where the lawsuit is being challenged and the result of the lawsuit. Why I think it is important that we have a transparent financing under that item, because it is a legal, legitimate obligation for BiH. The legitimate and legitimate authorities of this country have filed a lawsuit, which is extremely important to me from the point of view of establishing the truth for all the nations. How important she may best show the raps I listened to at the House of Representatives. Why some facts should be established in inadequate places, the best facts are found in court. Legal fact-finding is best done in court and whatever the facts are. I think it is very important that we get the truth about this from a relevant, international, neutral institution. The legitimacy of this international obligation is very, very clear. The BiH state was not created in Dayton. She has been an internationally recognised UN member since '92. A year. So it's very important that we overcome that blockade. Sometimes some accepted that it existed, some political parties, it existed all the time since, as an internationally recognised full-fledged UN member since '92. A year. Here was... my colleague Divković mentioned that, within the framework of the non-transparent spending of financial resources for the agent, the accounts of 12 are arriving which are very vague, but the accounts from the relevant signed person arrive. Šećirbegović produced certain costs there on behalf of the BiH state on behalf of the authorities that were before that, with the seal of powers of the previous government. The face of the state is saved in such a way that you can't say, we know here who Šaćirbegović is, after all, hiding it and the warrant we have internationally after him. But a serious state cannot avoid these obligations. Of course, there are elements, which are probably also informed to the public about the additional criminal activities, about the engagement in terms of Mr Šaćirbegović's financial activity, but I don't think it's that important here right now. I'm very disappointed with the ultimate attitude. We haven't even made a statement about the amendments to have anyone say if my amendment isn't adopted, we won't vote for the budget. Gentlemen who have said that, we should remember and the public should know that the budgets have been adopted without this item all these years, all these years, so that we are interesting where they suddenly have this kind of attack, very expressive, transparent, but as a responsible man from this home and as a representative of the current structure of government, so if you want and as a representative of the Social Democratic Party, I would first like to express my belief that this amendment will pass, and even if it does not pass, I would like to show that there are enough organised activities that only funding items, the lawsuits against Yugoslavia will not be compromised. For the end, regardless of the large differences, what he said and the chairman, and many others, I would agree on one procedure, which is possible for a procedural statement on amendments, because this is so much talked about and there is probably no possibility that a consensus is reached today in the next hour on something that we know there is no consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2439	I thank the gentleman, the second chairman of Mr. Sejfudin Tokić. I have one proposal, of course, without contesting Mr. Jusufović's right as president of the club to request a break, but if there is a possibility, since we have Mr. First Deputy Šimić from the dissuade to finish the debate, then we would end the debate, take a break and move on to the debate on amendments and statements. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2440	I thank Mr. Jusufović, although it doesn't matter if it's now or after the break. Dear colleagues, distinguished guests, I think it is a very important act and a very important crisis time period in BiH, and there is something that needs to be said about it. Let me comment on something, too, because that's what everybody does. Most of the debaters began their public debate to say it more clearly and therefore the whole truth. I respect, of course, everyone's truth. The truth is quite different to us, and I wouldn't say that the public is profiting too much, but we obviously know what we're doing. Dear fellow Špirić, I'm going to say something that belonged to the first part of the debate, so please let me do that, it'll be very short. And that something is. I'm extremely unhappy with this budget. So he hasn't answered many questions. There is no funding of the programme of interest for the whole country, from the ecologicals until the culture and the entire range you put there. It is not, of course, difficult to answer why it is, but we must also realize that we are the only country that allows our institutions of culture, here it is right next to us, the Earth Museum, and we can count another tenth that is failing, archives, etc. the unique institutions, the unique heritage and our common history of all our peoples, because it is worth speaking to in the House of Nature. So there is no such thing and that should be unsatisfactory. It should be dissatisfied with this 13 budget, this important act, that we treat it businessly so that the Rules of Procedure are constantly serving us for dating, i.e. overcoming crisis and difficult situations, and not for fostering democracy and strengthening Parliament's importance in the overall social life of BiH, it is a permanent situation and we are all responsible here and don't think that it means anything. Of course, both the Presidency and the Council of Ministers, but, gentlemen, fellow Members, we are very much involved, we do not have time to elaborate all this together. Despite what I said, I will support this budget with an amendment adopted at the House of Representatives, that is, with the amendment that we have adopted in the commission in which I am participating myself. It has been said here that politics throughout this process is present, I know very well who said and I am not accusing him of it at all, but I will not speak names, there is no need, precisely because it is well-concerned. It's not politics. It's the deepest policy. Here our public and I'm convinced that part of the public that deals with politics will be difficult to understand what it is. We have a situation that three of the biggest political parties we must, even when it comes to the House of Peoples, read things like that. Of which, the largest opposition, the largest in the structure of the government and the second to it in the structure of the government have amendments which, absolutely, if adopted, I, the explanation of how to consider and accept amendments I know and it is true about, but if such amendments were adopted, Bosnia and Herzegovina has no budget with all the consequences of what it means. It is, therefore, a policy that is difficult for our public to read, but I know, and nothing is useful for the public and not even for me, that part of the policy will be further... and why it is so, why this political chess game is played that way. Of course, now we have to open the cards and they won't tell us everything again. Funding an agent in The Hague. Funding agents and lawsuits no one smart enough not to say wise should be brought into direct contact. It would be good if we didn't have to exploit this issue here for too long and especially not emotionally, because we're on a very responsible mission. But if so and what my colleague would say for the sake of the public, as far as I'm concerned, the fact of the situation and the political relations in BiH are concerned and much broader, the lawsuit, therefore, remains. Funding an agent has nothing to do with it directly. I said something like that on the committee, so don't let them blame me, because I'll do it again. I have full understanding for all those who emotionally, politically, strategically, historically, if you will, have a relationship with that whole context in the text of funding agents and lawsuits. But it's not about being a thing, it's not about a lawsuit that matters, about the phenomenon of this important issue, about the item in the budget, about an agent that we all know is going to be funded. So it's not the measure of the matter, it's the policy of the matter and it's perfectly legitimate, but it's my request, and it's my suggestion that we also adopt the budget as I said. I respect the amendments, but if we would accept one of these amendments, then we know which path is going to agree. We wouldn't achieve it, it's my assessment, we wouldn't get an answer in this house, and I don't want to be pathetic and talk about the consequences of what it means for Bosnia and Herzegovina not to adopt the budget, and we're not prepared to take part of the responsibility in which I don't politically participate in this way, but in a way that we help this country and its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2441	I thank the first deputy, Mr. Šimić. Mr. Genjac picked up the phone. Is it a replica or a discussion, since it was a discussion. Mr. Halid Genjac, behind him, answered the discussion. I had a proposal to finish the debate and leave a statement on amendments and breaks. If it's okay with Jusufović, of course. Here's another Ibro Spahić and no reports. Here, 14 I'd like to ask you if there are any more registered for discussion after Ibra. No more reports. So Mr. Genjac, then Mr. Spahić. That's what we're going to conclude. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2442	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues may conclude that there is no point in submitting amendments, as today is the last day to adopt the budget at this home. He adopted the House of Representatives in one variant. There's no time to agree since today's "d" conclusion, there's no point in making amendments. That's right, but I'm really not responsible for it. The same political structure is in both the Presidency and the House of Representatives and the Council of Ministers and the House of Peoples. So this same political structure should have prepared and adopted the budget early in the House of Representatives, so that the House of Peoples has time to submit amendments and discuss. Since I therefore do not feel a bit responsible for the situation we have been brought into, and since this is the only opportunity to discuss the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I will make the right use of it. It's awfully hard for me not to talk about it in a pre-election campaign. All those previous ones who called for it succeeded and mostly said all the things that their voters didn't like. I can't do that. Believe me, I won't even bother. I will speak the way I think, some citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina will like it, and some will not. But I'll say what I think, because it's my duty as an MP. A number of Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizens are extremely important in funding the Hague lawsuit, because they see it as a legitimate lawsuit by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina before the legitimate International Court of Justice in The Hague. Since this is a legitimate lawsuit by the state against the state in the budget of the state's institutions, an item should be found that strictly speaks about what it is. This is particularly important at the moment when, we are at the stage when the defendant has used all possible ways of stalling the process and we come at the moment when the evidence should be presented, so the processes are intense.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2443	Wait a minute, I'm sorry, we don't have a decision, we have a debate. I think we can let a colleague discuss it. There's no decision. No quorum required.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2444	So, since this is how we have submitted an amendment simply from which one part of the liquid assets amounting to 686 thousand marks is rerouted to the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina with a particular intention called the very clear funding of agents before the International Court of Justice in The Hague. So we have made the amendment very clear, and there is really no need or reason to heat up the temperature on this issue. Our colleagues respect our right to submit an amendment. We respect the right of colleagues to accept or not accept the amendment. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, the majority of the House of Nations will be respected. However, by acting also not politically and not for the reasons of the election campaign, we believe that this amendment is extremely important for us and we have not only submitted it for the sake of submitting it, but we have submitted it because we believe that it should necessarily be in the budget, i.e. we believe that without that amendment and without that item we cannot accept the budget very clearly. That's the reason. We have proposed an amendment, offered it and, therefore, as we have the right to propose an amendment, to vote in favour of the amendment, we also have the right to vote or not to vote in favour of the budget. 15 That's why we explain things here. For us, it is such an important amendment because we hold that one number of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina is extremely important so that we cannot support the budget without that amendment. It is sad, however, and that story about the amendment is I think according to the Rules of Procedure can be concluded. I note only that Mr. Džaferović and I, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, have given the initiative to call on this issue to protect our vital interest. You know how the procedure goes. If another MP joins from the Bosniak Club, the instrument can be used. If it does not join, it will not be possible to use the instrument and the budget is adopted with a majority that simply fails. So simple these issues are business-defined and I think that this question can be absorbed in this way. It is unfortunate, however, that this issue is how the budget issue has led us over the past 8 months to the opportunity that we have almost no time to talk about other essential issues of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget. I don't know if it's intentional, if it's conscious. In any case, if there is an intention, it is unfair to treat one such important issue for one number of citizens essentially of another character in the budget in an adequate and appropriate manner. I mentioned earlier that there is already a large number of information in the public about how we have the funds from the budget. Some deputy ministers, some ministers have received incomes that are approaching 4,000 KM per month. On the basis of salaries, journals, supplements, etc. Maybe it's all in line with the rules, I don't know. I also asked for some information in Parliament about what is going on, because in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament, which is one of the institutions of the beneficiary institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget, we know that we adopt the budget and that we are the most responsible. About 120m in the spending budget for all Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions remain about when debt service breaks out. So around 10 million marks and all institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina are available monthly. Both the Border Service and the Constitutional Court and the Ministry and the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly and the Commission and the Secretaries, etc. etc. Around the Parliamentary Assembly has about 4 million annually, which means about 300,000 KM a month has a Parliamentary Assembly. I took a look at these items as proposed. The Parliamentary Assembly is closest to me, because I really don't have the opportunity to see through the other institutions. And I looked at some items in the Parliamentary Assembly, because some of my data just doesn't agree. Last year, about 300, 430,000 and other fees were provided for travel expenses to MPs at a time when we had a nine-month report, and we already spent 500,000, and we adopted the rebalance again at 300, 430,000. I don't know where he is, what's going to happen to the difference. Of course, it's a matter of budget implementation reports. The problem is that this budget projection is based on budget rebalances for last year, and we don't have what happened to that rebalance. The budget's budget for this year for employees' costs is forecasted again to be 431 000 marks. According to the information I received in three months this year, 197,000 was spent, or close to 200,000. So in three months, half a year's figure was spent. Since it has now been five months, or nearly six months, if this trend continues, and we continued for half a year to spend the estimated annual figure. Also for the work contract, 40,000 are scheduled for the first three months, scheduled for 18,000, and 40,000 are spent. More than double. The cost of a separate life also, instead of 17, spent 23 thousand etc. etc. So in three months, these trends are drastic, trends in drastic and consumption for three months, and we have a budget proposal in the fifth month, starting with figures that have already been broken. At the very least, at the very least, you need to answer what it is. No matter what I've been brought into the lineup to adopt this budget for five minutes to 12, I have to say 16 because this is going to be the subject of future reports, discussions, etc. I have to warn you about this. I must tell you that I have requested some concrete information, I have asked how many MPs have spent travel funds from appointments to today, which I warned you about last year. Last year, some 14 times in eight months abroad. When I criticized, they say, that's how Bosnia and Herzegovina's reputation rises in the world. Even though there is no means to raise that reputation in the world is continued at the same pace this year. Two days ago I was looking for data still ticking. I guess they have so much of that material in two days' time they haven't been able to, they haven't delivered yet. But some colleagues among us have achieved an average of 4,600 KM for the last three months based on wages, diaries, separate lives, mileage, etc. Of course, I'll get more details when we're in the report and more specific about everything individually. So this is a matter of budget. Can anyone dispute, can anyone dispute that here the presence of wastefulness, irresponsibility, predatoryness, and it seems to me that the strengthening of the state seems to be done in a way that makes my pocket of state stronger and only in this way looks that way. These are the reasons why I can't talk about the budget this way really. And one more question. When I had all this in mind and saw it was about the conclusion – it is rebalanced in the budget as much as anyone spends, and how much will spend depends on the cheif of individual officials. It won't work like that, gentlemen, it won't be possible this year, because there's no way, there's no way to rebalance. There's no means to settle that. That is why I have proposed an amendment that says approximately 10% of the funds allocated to salaries and fees paid to employees and thus the amount of 9 million redirects to a special item in a special programme titled for projects and Bosnian Herzegovic innovations implemented by young Bosnian Herzegovic experts. So the 10 million would be directed at this, and the Council of Ministers would determine how these funds are available, to which they are allocated, and the basic criterion would be to use the funds in a way to implement the innovation of domestic experts and to employ domestic experts. Why? Because they are irresponsible and wasteful in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, they establish salaries and fees and make incomes that do not match neither the real results of these institutions nor the opportunities of society, especially in view of the current economic situation. At the same time, exceptional expert research capacities of young people are not realised by the lack of ad hoc resources, and the trend of youth departure and brain drains is rapidly accelerated. The proposed amendments shall be referred to one part of the funding provided for in respect of salaries and fees for the purpose of encouraging the employment of young experts. These would make a symbolic contribution to the retention and proper involvement of young experts in the country. I believe this protects the vital interest of not one nation, but the vital interest of the young generation in all the peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since that amendment has not been accepted on the committee responsible, I have renewed it. And with all this in mind, I'm ultimately suggesting that if the budget is adopted without a report, I suggest we reach the next conclusion. A report on the implementation of the 2001 budget will be discussed together with a report by the BiH institution's general auditor for 2001, which was planned for July as a rule. So together that the two are considered when we haven't already discussed the report when it was necessary at the budget, then we'll wait for the auditor-general to consider it together. And for budget rebalances, the BiH institution can only submit the initiative after considering the two reports. I ask that my amendments be put to the vote and a proposal for this conclusion. Thank you. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2445	I'd like to thank the delegate, Genjac. The word is Mr. Ibro Spahić, and we would like to conclude the debate with him. I ask you, there is no need for anyone to warn us to stick to our business opportunities about the length of exposure, so there is no need to specifically warn, nor to use the Rules of Procedure for Warning. I hope he won't have to do that to his colleague Ibro, since he's having a brief discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2446	Oh, yeah, as much as you need to talk. In that regard, Mr. Chairman, I'm glad you took your time again and spoke according to your position as speaker. I'd like to say about the budget next. First, as is known by the Constitution, the Bureau adopted the draft budget and here for the second time the Presidency adopted a new act, a draft budget, and we are talking about this law. The Presidency, in my opinion, is the subject of another debate, but I will still say as you are serving this speaker in an elegant way, should never again, I would have proposed an amendment, and I will already do so at the next session to change the Constitution directly to this item dealing with the Bosnia and Herzegovina budget, but should have done so by the Council of Ministers in my conviction, because I do not see the Presidency being quoted as dealing with budget and budgetary policy and budget spending. The second thing is that the presidency has found itself in that status in relation to Dejton's decision and the Dayton Constitution, but I think we need to normalise things in this country and let the Council of Ministers do it. That's what I'm concerned with in principle. Because this gap that lasts on the budget and report on budgets and rebalancing in some way gives some more meaning to the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency and establishes a semi-presidential system that is as it is formulated in Dayton, but is not good for the future work of BiH institutions. As far as the promoter is concerned, the very fact that the promoter discusses the same matter in different ways in half a year and that the same members of the Bureau have different views in the public and in the Presidency and within their own parties is talking about how they should check their credibility fully in the next elections. It would be best if we were to choose that the same colleagues who are in the BiH presidency check that credibility directly in front of voters to see if it really is sustainable when one thing is said.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2447	I would ask you to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2448	And now for the points of the agenda. I am saying this fully specified in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency on the budget is the first point of the presidency's commitment and it is said that the Presidency on the financing of Article 8 on the proposal of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Presidency will adopt budgets each year covering the expenditures and needs to fulfil the responsibility of BiH institutions to meet BiH's international obligations. It is indisputable here that the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina is the one in that budget, which is the version given to me by my colleague Sušac, has only two basic tasks. I would say when I looked at the contents of this budget, since this is the first and only debate we have is that the presidency has underestimated, by my belief, the funds for the conduct of Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy. This means that, in my opinion, it is not enough that the funds that are being formulated here are also evidenced by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' intention to fire or return to the country a number of diplomatic officials and to employ local staff. I have to say, in a certain number of embassies local staff are already working intensively so there's no need. Even people from other countries in neighbouring countries are serious about it and we already have events and cases in Bosnia and Herzegovina that some are transparent, depending on the need, and some are not transparent. Therefore, my view is that this is a highly underrated area and that the Presidency should have proposed much more significant resources, given that, in the meantime, the final Bureau was to establish an external trade chamber and that economic functions were to be strengthened, so-called. Bosnia and Herzegovina's economic diplomacy. I don't see how these funds will satisfy the basic eliminated functions, and in particular how the structure of foreign policy will be realised in line with the BiH Presidency's conclusions on new foreign policy if no support is given to financial people who will work and represent BiH on... It is the first remark on the structure of the budget. The second remark was that the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency nearly a year ago, perhaps 8-9 months ago, ordered the Council of Ministers to resolve the status issues of scientific, cultural and other institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina established by the BiH Parliament's decision. Nor did the Bureau provide for a budget of funds for this, so it is one verbal support, nor did the Council of Ministers ever respond to this request and respond to the Presidency precisely and decadently what it did with it. It is one.... fact that it is a verbal request by the Presidency and one reassurance by the Council of Ministers towards the institutions of culture, from the Academy of Arts to the Earth Museum. Third thing. In the items that are assigned here, as far as I understand the discussion of my colleagues, there are two fundamental principles missing. First, these days, the High Representative, of course, would like me to have someone give me an answer after the debate, declare some laws that have direct financial consequences and which must finance the budget. This is the Agency for State Services, e.g. One that's already known to have 20 people. She's nowhere to be found.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2449	The debate on principles was the first debate. Please stick to the amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2450	Here's what I'm saying. It seems to me that there is still one problem missing, which is of course that I would not want to conclude anything that would be difficult for us, but let's say that today's conversation here in this house does not correspond to the spirit of the resolution that we adopted on trust and reconciliation. In that resolution, the Bošnjak, Srbin and Hrvat agreed to respect all the principles that are related to what is in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the necessary process that we have opened, and therefore it is really uncontestable for me that today delegates in this home of the people of the SDP appear with a proposal that is indeed identical to the proposal we heard that is at the House of Representatives and therefore speaking of certain uncontestable things and which I see as I see it as one of the essential interests of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, Jevrej, Albanac, etc. who live here, I am convinced that this fundamental interest, as far as I understand the discussion, will support all of our colleagues in this house, and it is not true that after the amendment, if they don't adopt nothing will happen. There's a consensus between two homes and I don't think 19 should prejudge that thing. Since this is the fundamental interest of all the peoples, the constituents and the minority, as well as the citizens, I think we only have the following. We can calculate politically here today, and we can make whatever traps you want for each other. But essentially, there are no funds for one single institution that has also been announced to be this year. I don't see how this perspective presidency thinks about the country, and the story is it's fighting for BiH institutions. It is good that the court, the BiH state court, is scheduled to finance in an adequate manner, although it has not begun work. I am sorry that the prosecution is not also foreseen here, Central Prison, because it is the most needed institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The central prison will certainly be an institution that will soon be transparently funded, given the debate we had about spending in the budget and the debate that will finally have to be transparent in that place, except in the court, the prosecution, the sea and the Central Prison. I therefore recommend that this also be taken into account in the future rebalancing projects of our presidency. I hope the Central Prison thing takes care of as much as the other funds I've been talking about. For example, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2451	I thank Mr Ibrahim Spahić. There are no more debaters. I'm closing the debate on phase two of the budget, on second reading. Mr. Jusufović asked for a break for 15 minutes. So 15 minutes and then a statement on the amendments. I'm closing the debate. We're entering a plea phase. Thank you. [[pause]] Break's over. So the debate is closed. We're going to make a statement about the amendments that sent delegates to this house. We plead on the amendments of Mr Halid Genjac and Šefik Džaferović, they have submitted two amendments. Amendment I and Amendment II I call upon the delegates to declare who is for the amendment and Mr Halid Henjec and Šefik Džaferović? Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I find that the amendment and Mr Halid Genjac and Šefik Džaferović were not accepted since 3 voted in favour, 5 were against and abstentioned 5. We declare Amendment II to Mr Halid Genjac and Šefik Džaferović. Who's for Amendment II? Who's against it? Who's being held back? 4 for, 5 against, 4 abstentions. I also find Amendment II to Mr Halid Genjac and Šefik Džaferović not accepted. 20 We move to a statement concerning the amendment, Mr Halid Genjac tabled two amendments to the proposal for a budget of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions in accordance with Article 89(2). Rules of Procedure. Who's for Amendment I? Who's against it? Who's being held back? So 3 for, 5 against, 5 abstentions. I find that Amendment I has not been adopted. Who is Mr. Džaferović for Amendment II, Mr. Genjac I apologize? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I find that with five votes against, three for, six abstentions, Amendment I and Amendment II to Mr Halid Genjac have not been accepted. We have an amendment of SDP delegates Mr. Sejfudin Tokić, Ivo Divković and Niko Sušac. That's one amendment. Who's for the amendment of the imported delegates? Who's against it? So the amendment got super-half. Who's being held back? - Three got most of it, went to the alignment, and we no longer have amendments to the institution's draft budget and international obligations for 2002. I suggest we do the alignment without a break. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed the process of compliance. I want to inform you that we have not agreed on this amendment. We need to bring the voting procedure to an end. Who's from the Federation against this amendment? - Niko. Who is from Republika Srpska against the amendment? - 5 I konstatovati that the amendment has not been adopted. We are approaching a statement on Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions' draft budget and international commitments for 2002. Who's up for this proposal? - 12 for who's up against it? - 3 against Who is abstention? No abstentions. I am pleased to see that we adopted the draft budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2002. 21 We move to the second item of the Ad agenda. 2. The draft law on the implementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and international obligations for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2002 So we are holding the debate under Article 90. First the principles, then the discussion in the second reading. I'm opening a debate on the law in my first reading. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favor of having an amendment debate? - 13 for who's against it? Who's being held back? 2 I find that with 13 votes for and 1 against, 2 abstentions we passed this law in the first reading. I'm opening a debate on the law in the second reading. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Excuse me, this is Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2452	Dear colleagues, given that I have submitted 2 amendments to this law, I feel the need to explain them, especially because they are not accepted on the committee responsible. We know the situation with last year's budget implementation reports. Last year's budget law has legally established obligations for the Bureau to submit to the Parliamentary Assembly a report on the implementation of the budget for the previous year by 30 April. No matter what the legal provision is, we're witnessing what's going on. The new draft law therefore provides that the draft law on the implementation of the budget relating to this fixed year provides for a consolidated report on the implementation of the budget in Article 13(1), and for the purpose of reporting to the Parliamentary Assembly, which does not specify the deadline for the Bureau to submit a report to the Parliamentary Assembly by 30 March at the latest. I think a clear deadline should be set and therefore I have proposed an amendment to add a new position to this article that the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina is obliged to inform the Parliamentary Assembly of the implementation of the budget for the previous year by 30 April of the current year at the latest. That's one amendment. The second amendment concerns Article 15(1). Article 15(1) of the original text on the draft law provides that a fine of 500 to 1000 KM will be fined for the offence by the responsible person of the beneficiary of the budget in breach of the provisions of this law in cases where the grant appropriations are not directed into a single account, if the budget is not used for purposes, for the purposes for which it is established and if it assumes commitments above the budget, etc. etc. For all violations of handling, business and budgetary relations, a fine of 500 to 1000 KM is foreseen here, and there may be several hundred thousand amounts. Even though the claims of this law should not be to determine both the procedure and the amount of punishment in the event of criminal liability, I think the law requires that this sentence be amended and that the next sentence stands. Responsible persons who do not comply with the provisions of this law on the implementation of the budget will be subject to procedures for determining disciplinary, criminal and criminal liability. The rest of the text remained unchanged. So one of the disciplinary, only one of the disciplinary measures is the penalty of 500 to 1000 KM. In order for those disciplinary penalties to be imposed, a special rule is required. Especially because we are halfway through the year, which took place by budget already 5-6 months ago, which is what this law declares its jurisdiction for the whole fixed year. So from the beginning to the end of the year and for these previous five months. So to conclude. I find it inappropriate to state that all possible violations of 500 to 1000 KM will be punished, although this does not exclude criminal and criminal liability, I therefore believe that it should be determined as necessary and under the applicable laws and criminal and criminal and disciplinary responsibility. This is therefore the essence of Amendment II. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2453	I thank the delegate Mr. Halid Genjac. A delegate named Momčilo Novaković came forward for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2454	Fellow delegates, I must first say that I am in principle dissatisfied with the text of this draft budget law, but also with the conclusion that the investment of the amendment would actually mean extending some deadlines for the adoption of the budget and therefore neither I nor my colleagues from the Serbian delegates' Club have tabled amendments. But I can't help but warn myself of some inadequacy of this law with the fact that they are repeated by the past law. Perhaps this discussion could have been in the first reading, that is, when we discussed the law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2455	So I'm asking you to try to conduct a debate on amendments and the law in the second reading. If there are general remarks, it may be better not to talk to them afterwards, if you have objections to Mr. Genjac's amendment or if you have a new amendment, it would be good to hear it, if not.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2456	I don't have a new amendment since I haven't made amendments I can't even have it. So I do not have an amendment, but I would like to say that it is illogical that Article 6.2 is practically the Parliamentary Assembly that is prevented from having any control over the budget or from deciding on it, given that the Council of Ministers takes the right to decide on redistributing the funds within the items without the consent of the Parliamentary Assembly. The Council of Ministers also uses the funds of the budget reserve, and there is no obligation on this to inform the Parliamentary Assembly as well as the fact that Mr Genjac spoke of the amendment neither respect nor undertake to respect any way to submit the report within a specified time limit. 23 On that side, in some other circumstances I would support Mr Genjac's amendment concerning the Bureau's obligation to submit by 30 April of the current year a report for the previous year, and given the fact that this would mean then the adoption of the law in a different text than the one that was suspended at the House of Representatives, and then I say further extending this process, I will, when it comes to this amendment, be abstentioned. In principle, I think that the Council of Ministers and the Presidency in the course of this whole process has detached and made it impossible for the Parliamentary Assembly to have an appropriate impact on both the law and the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2457	I thank delegate Novaković. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Ibro Spahić. Here you go. So I'm asking you just to make sure that the debate on amendments and the law is in the second reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2458	Okay. Since Mr. Speaker has spoken to all of you, I hope that doesn't apply to me. As for Mr. Genjac's amendments, I have to say, it would be good if both 500 and 1000 marks were paid for disrespecting budget implementation and for a start it would be enough so that at least on that basis we could stay on the text as suggested here. It is my view that we do not enter into this debate, because it does not create any new radical changes in this legal act. The other thing I'm saying is that it's a shame to take advantage of that minute and a half that we have at point 3.1. these assets revenues, the last part that's been said to collect revenue in the budget for the functioning of BiH institutions and international obligations, are in no way undermining either the BiH presidency or the Council of Ministers in an adequate manner transparent public statement. The state of Bosnia and Herzegovina has huge assets that it cannot acquire and take over, to regain its function, and that is a huge reserve for funding different activities. It's about buildings, buildings, countries, etc. That's well-known. There is a list of those institutions that own BiH states, which are not transparent and accessible to the public. I call on the Bureau, given that it is responsible for the budget and transparent business to come out with that list together with the Treasury Ministry. Which means the proceeds from the name, because that property is not nearly capitalized in this budget. I welcome the strong budget reserves, Article 5.1, which says that the initiative has different bodies and levels. In this regard, and about 6.2, since counterpart Novaković was dissatisfied with the fact that the Ministry of the Treasury has the right to give an opinion with the consent of the Bureau for Changes in Budgetary Paragraphs, I believe that this is a completely logical legal solution that enables flexible action within the framework of the legal frameworks. Since it is the motion of the Presidency, it would jump its own mouth if it were to work against the logic and principles of this law, and the Treasury ministry must finally gain trust, general public trust as an institution, and therefore I think it would be good to personalize a ministry somewhere like the Treasury Ministry. So my best suggestion is which is the shortest part of that minute. We recommend that we approach the amendment statement and move on to a statement on the law so that we do not trouble further text which is the next logic of the Budget Law made and which does not have many conditions to change at this time. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-31-0.u2459	I thank Mr. Ibro Spahić. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a statement on Mr. Halid Genjac's amendments. Who's for the amendment and Mr. Halid Genjac? - dva kao's against it? Who's being held back? Two votes for, six against, six abstentions, amendment I hasn't been adopted. Who's for Amendment II Mr. Halid Genjac? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Two for, seven against, six abstentions. I find that Amendment II of Mr. Genjac has not been adopted. We move to a statement of the draft law on the implementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget and international obligations for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2002. Who's in favor of this bill? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I am pleased to say with 13 votes for and 1 abstention and 1 against, we passed the Law on the implementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget and international obligations for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2002. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. Here you go. A proposal for a conclusion. Please, nice. Here's my conclusion, Mr. Genjac, on the plea. Who's to conclude? A report on the implementation of the 2001 budget will be discussed together with the report by the BiH institution's general auditor for 2001, before the BiH institution's 2002 budget rebalancing initiative will be launched. Who's in? Who's against it? Two for, seven against, who's restrained? - Five abstentions. I find that the conclusion has also not been adopted. We're moving to the third item of the agenda, ladies and gentlemen, and that's Ad. 3. The resolution on the original financing of institutions and international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina is proposed by Mr Sejfudin Tokić. It suggests that we make sure that the resolution goes to the respective committee of constitutional law. 25 This is what we can do today, so after the Commission’s position we will open a debate at the House. Who's up for a proposal like this? - 13 Who's against it? Who's being held back? 13 for, 2 abstentions, I find that the resolution goes to the committee responsible for the plea. I hereby conclude with these ladies and gentlemen the 19th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You will be biti of the 20th session in due time. Thank you very much. I want to thank you for your serious and patient work and for your contribution to adopting the Budget and the Budget Law. Thank you. End of session at 12.10 o'clock.
