ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6171	MPs, please take your seats. Guests, please take your seats. Gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 21st session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'd like those present to turn off the tone on your cell phone. In addition to the MPs at the session, they were called: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman of the BiH presidency, Mr Beriz Belkić, informed yesterday that the presidency is officially absent today, travelling to Brussels, so they are not able, for objective reasons, to attend today's session. The meeting was invited by the chairpersons and members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the European Union and representatives of the embassy. According to the Service report, 40 out of 42 MPs attend the session. 27 MPs from the Federation of BiH and 13 MPs from Republika Srpska. Therefore, there are conditions for today's session. Gentlemen, with the invitation to the session, you have received a proposal on the agenda. You noticed that there was a change in the order of the usual, which is, that the usual point 2. MPs' questions and answers, point 3. Point 2 is the report on the work of the Council of Ministers. This has been done, the change of schedule has been made at the request of the Council of Ministers, taking into account the obligations that follow for the chairman and some members of the Council of Ministers following the report. In accordance with the conclusion of last session of the Enlarged College, points 4 to 10 of that first call were placed on the agenda, provided that reports were sent in good time. Since the alignment committees have not yet completed their work, the agenda has been removed, points 4.6 and 8. Also, the draft agenda also removed the 15th point for the reason that the Finance Commission and Budget failed to complete and prepare the report, complete the work and prepare a report on the review report. So, gentlemen, MPs are about objective problems. In the session of the College, the agenda you received was agreed, which is before you. Before the debate on the agenda, it is my duty to introduce to you that the extended College at yesterday's 2nd session was considering initiatives to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the Representative's House. It is concluded, I remind you, that in the last session, we had the conclusion that we should put this problem ahead of the first next session of the Enlarged College. Yesterday, the extended college concluded that parliamentary clubs, i.e. MPs, were invited to submit concrete amendments or additions to certain parts of the Rules of Procedure to the College by 15 April. After that deadline, it will be formed, depending on the agreement of the College, but this is a business option, a commission or working group will be formed to sum up all these proposals and prepare a proposal to amend and supplement the Business, of course, if this occurs, if all the procedures pass the House. Gentlemen, we are now moving on to a debate on the agenda proposal. You've received a proposal on the agenda. I don't think I need to read the proposal. Here you go. No Niko's answering for a word. Gentlemen, there is a agenda before you, which has 14 points. I'm putting it to a vote. Who's for the proposed agenda? Thank you. I find the agenda adopted unanimously. 40 for 40 present. There's no need to vote who's against or who's abstention, because 40 are present. All right. I find that the next agenda has been adopted for the 21st session. I have to read for the official record. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 20th session of the Representative's House; 2. Report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers for the period from 22.2.2001 to 14.2.2001; 3. Parliamentary questions and answers; 4. Report by the Joint Commission on the conclusion of an agreement on the uniform text of the Law on First Defence; 5. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of an agreement on the uniform text of the copyright law and related rights law in BiH; 6. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on a proposal for a statistical law; 7. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the Commission's report on human rights, immigration, refugees and asylum on visits to a number of municipalities; 8. Proposal for a law on the use of the protection of the Red Cross/Christ sign and the name of the Red Cross/Brussels Society – Second reading; 9. Proposal for a law on the BiH Red Cross Society – first reading; 10. Proposal for a law on administrative procedure – first reading; 11. Proposal for a Law on the holidays of BiH – Proposer of the People's House – First Reading; 12. Appointment of members of the House of Representatives Commission, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Gender Equality; 13. The appointment of a member of the BiH Parliamentary delegation to the Council of Europe, instead of MP Medihe Filipović, who is an ambassador to Sweden; 14. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Anexa of the Treaty on the determination of border crossings between BiH and the Republic of Croatia (b) The Project Credit System, the Development Project for cattle farming and rural financing between BiH and the International Development Fund. 3 Gentlemen, we are going to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes from the 20th session of the House of Representatives you received. Does he have any objections? Here you go. Mr. Bjelobrk Belabrk.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6172	Under the second point of parliamentary questions and answers... etc. My discussion was relatively well conveyed. However, it is not the key part in which I insisted that the text of the question be made by professional services first credible according to all the issues that have been really raised. In that sense I gave several examples, that, that the existing text, is an existing review incomplete. I insist that it enter into the penitentiary and be, too, an obligation of leadership from the Assembly to provide it for the final...
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6173	Okay, thank you. Here you go, Mr. Vukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6174	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I will refer to the record from twice. First, I have to say I didn't get it, I tried to get it from a colleague around me to get no one there, and I'm letting maybe I missed it, but I think it happens several times that I don't have a record and that I can discuss it. It doesn't matter that much. It's more important than that. In my discussion of the law on the transfer of the regulator and the operator, I found one fact that must be established in writing. So that law is under the strong authority of the international community. A certain group of officials accepted, verified and put us in the process under Article 105. There were no Hrvat in that group. I was one of those who participated in the preparation of that law. I wonder what would happen if one such important law came into the process without representatives of the other two nations participating in it at least in this final consensus. I don't think mistakes like this should happen, especially if they don't get carried away. It is very important to me, it is an important law and we, as representatives of the HDZ BiH, voted here for the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6175	Okay, thank you. Let's move on. If no one is answering the question, we should make a statement about Mr. bora Bjelobrk's request and Mr. Vukić's request. Who is it to accept Mr. Bjelobrk's request to enter the record? Who's against it? Abstained no one. I'm being unanimous. Please request from Mr. Vukić, who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Nobody. I'm being unanimous. Therefore, we now have an updated record. 4 I am putting the minutes to the vote. Who's up for the adoption of the record? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Niko. I find that the record was unanimously adopted 39 for. We're going over the Members of Parliament to item two of the agenda. Ad.2. A report on the work of the Council of Ministers of BiH for the period from 22 February 2001 to 14 February 2002, you received material from the Members of Parliament. This time we asked for material to be sent slowly to us before the Council of Ministers, so that MPs could prepare for the debate today, which, of course, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and ministers will feel during the debate. I call on the chairman of the Council of Ministers to submit an opening statement on the report on the work of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6176	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable MPs, distinguished guests, at today's House of Representatives meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly, a report on the work of the Council of Ministers for the period from 22.2.2001 to 14.02.2002 is the obligation of the Council of Ministers to report once a year on their work to the Parliamentary Assembly. On behalf of the Council of Ministers and myself, I would first of all like to thank you for the support and co-operation that the Council of Ministers had from the Parliamentary Assembly, especially from this home during the reporting period and how, under the chairmanship of academics, Prof. Dr. Božidar Matić, as well as in the last eight-month period during which I chaired the Council of Ministers. I am free to say that during this reporting period, there is a significant increase in co-operation and co-ordination, not only in relation to the Council of Ministers on the one hand and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, but also in relations with the BiH Presidency, the governments of both entities, as well as representatives of the international community in BiH. We expect to establish a trend that will go further along the upward path. A high degree of mutual co-operation was established within the Council of Ministers itself, which also reflected good co-operation between the ministry and the institutions and the Council of Ministers' bodies and the merits of working this way which is now accepted as a standard in the work of the Council of Ministers belongs to all ministers and their deputies, although quality is not measured by quantity. I'm going to say a few facts on this occasion that they're saying, just as an illustration, about the amount of work they've done over the past few days. All figures are multiplely higher than any previous period. During this reporting period, the Council of Ministers held 55 regular sessions, 44 extraordinary, two working consultations, which discussed issues in the work of the Council of Ministers, and discussed 1,402 agenda points and adopted appropriate decisions and conclusions. 5 The Council of Ministers established in this period, in the parliamentary procedure, 62 drafts of the law, from which the Parliamentary Assembly adopted 25 laws in both homes. At different stages of parliamentary procedure there are 31 laws and we expect these laws to be passed soon. Unfortunately, the parliamentary procedure also rejected 6 laws, which were proposed by the Council of Ministers. The Council also discussed six laws in the process of agreeing in the Council of Ministers and will soon be referred to the parliamentary procedure. 123 decisions have been made from various areas of part-round work of the Council of Ministers, 17 sublegislative acts, mainly from the field of customs policy and 143 different information and 34 reports have been discussed and adopted. The Council of Ministers also engaged in activities that were not directly foreseen by the work programme, but stemmed from the part-round work, the competences of the work of the ministry and the Council of Ministers and which were responsible for the challenge of the moment in which we were found. I'll just list some of those activities. A co-ordination team for economic development and European integration has been established in which relevant members of the Council of Ministers and entity prime ministers are involved and, if necessary, resolute entity ministers are involved in its work. The goal of establishing this form of work and harmonising activities at the level of the BiH state and entities on all issues that are important for the establishment of a single economic space in BiH as well as basic preconditions for faster economic development, as well as the necessary coordination on the implementation of the Rod-map or road map, for BiH's accession to European integration. Five meetings of this team have been held so far, discussing a number of important issues for our country's economic development. Representatives of international financial organisations and some institutions participated in some of the co-ordination team meetings. The result of this work is evident, although all of this also points to the institutional indetermination in which we have to act today. Then, a permanent form of partnership work was established with the Office of the High Representative in BiH in the form of something that is traditionally referred to as a consulting partner forum in which the alternate Council of Ministers of BiH and the Office of the High Representative are hosting, and so far, three meetings of the official forum have been held. These meetings, when dealing with entity competence issues, are also attended by the prime ministers of both entities. A significant step has been made to change relations with the international community in BiH that is being viewed, not only the establishment of a consulting partner forum, which has become an inevitable way of working, but also the co-ordination of state and entity bodies and the international community in BiH. In the future, on the basis of these experiences, we need to turn more and more into content and not just formal partnership, and here we have to say that there is a phase behind us that had to go through. Our success is that we have slowly created a new quality in relations with the international community. I think that quality is visible at the end of this reporting period. The Council of Ministers also made a significant effort to establish and provide basic conditions for the work of the joint co-ordination team, to monitor the implementation of the BiH institutions and entities' plans to prevent terrorist activities and actions. The team regularly submitted information to the Council of Ministers on monitoring the implementation of the activity plan. Just thanks to the team's involvement, in co-ordination with the entity authorities, BiH has placed itself in a positive position in a group of states that are able to have open but not porn borders and these activities have shown that the lack of adequate state institutions must be approached in the future with new and more courageous steps. This makes me think that it is certainly necessary to stress the still present certain obstacles to the work of the Council of Ministers, which are being conducted, above all, in insufficiently defining the powers of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry in the current law on the Council of Ministers. Overcoming this situation is a very important task on which the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Cooperation with the Presidency and the Parliamentary Assembly will hopefully work intensively in the coming period. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the Council of Ministers has been managed by three of our top priorities, which will ultimately be and should ultimately create assumptions for stronger economic development, this is primarily the rule of law, then, strengthening institutions and three economic reforms. This one two and three is not the order of our priorities from the point of view of what we would like. This is the order of our priorities from the point of view of the road we must go. Our goal is economic reforms and a better life. However, we cannot start with economic reforms without having enough strong institutions before, we cannot enter into strengthening the building of institutions without the rule of law being a phase foundation on which institutions are built into economic reforms. Therefore, the rule of law is an absolutely necessary prerequisite for every successful society, so we as the Council of Ministers wanted to establish and help establish a state service that will carry out state affairs professionally, efficiently, impartially, transparently and manage the interests of the state. For this, it is very important to pass a law on state service currently in parliamentary procedure as well as a law that will complete the judicial system at the level of the BiH state. I would like to draw particular attention to this occasion to the law on the state service which is a prerequisite that in the form in which the Council of Ministers proposed to agree and adopt as something without which we cannot talk about meeting the Rod-map or road map, and therefore once again this year I submit this annual report to point out the importance of this law in the form of the principles that we have advocated. I think that the efficiency of public administration and the reduction of all forms of corruption of great importance for removing obstacles faced by business people, and that is why a recently presented action plan to fight corruption has been presented. And if it is a significant reduction in the black economy and the presence of unfair competition is the problem both for foreign investors and for the more significant development of Bosnia and Herzegovina's business potential, this particular issue. True, incomplete data, but it's pretty accurate that only about 8% of cases of economic crime end up being punished. Material damage in BiH caused by economic crime last year has been estimated at around 40 million marks. Unfortunately, it is quite certain that they are tenfold larger than this assessment because, let's call it, there are no large and small criminals, conditionalally said great criminals, mostly not in prisons as much as in newspapers and in newspapers are often successful business people. Unfortunately, the Council of Ministers has taken decisive measures to drastically reduce the impact of the economy on, the black economy on the development of the country and the action plan to fight corruption and, firstly, part of it. However, we, precisely, from the fact that I have a completely, completely naturally separate legislative and judicial authority, this time I do not want to say anything about what is expected in judicial reform, because it is not the work of the executive authority, it is largely the work of the legislative authority, but to the greatest extent at this point it is in the hands of the international community. That is precisely why we were calling and expecting the High Representative to initiate active and radical reforms that are necessary in the judiciary, in order to come into a completely different situation, which will enable this country to be interesting to foreign investors and it is also interesting to the domestic ones. By the way, when I started talking about economic parameters, I mean that the introduction of a vault operating system was brought to an end in this period. We expect 7 this system to eliminate many places for unnecessary activities, suspicious activities and to increase confidence in the availability of public revenues. It is also important to strengthen the State Border Service and this significantly reduces the possibility of a gray economy, and progress in this area is great. We often talk about that today our border is covered, no more than 10 per cent covered by the State Border Service and if we are aware that coverage of the border is a digital category, 10 and 90 is often the same, because it remains a space that can be passed and therefore it is very important that we end this process in this period of implementation and bringing the border service to 100% of our borders, because it is the only way for them to be able to strengthen the stability of this country and the stability of economic assumptions for further development. Otherwise, the World Bank and IMF's latest studies unambiguously suggest that the lack of institutions is a major brake and a major brake for further economic development. I am aware that this is a very sensitive issue that is affecting the nature of the peace agreement, but I want to make it clear that the Bosnian-Herzegovina society will have to, and that our experience shows a consensus on whether we want a weak state, with the imminent outcome of a weak standard of living, or whether we want not a strong state, but an optimal state that will improve the economic situation of all of us. It's our commitment to go the other way and we obviously opened it up as a process. As the level of poverty in BiH is increasing, the unemployment and pensioners and the fugitive and other victims of the war conflict are particularly under pressure as a problem. We want to be people who do not turn our heads and treat this problem as something that we want to be serious and systematically tackle. At first, for the first time in this country's history, we have joined the creation of a comprehensive... economic development strategy, whose accent will be on the fight against poverty and establishing a more efficient social protection system. Otherwise, during recent and not only recent visits, and above all the leading countries present at the Peace Implementation Council, as well as our neighbours, I can say that I have made sure that BiH has strong and reliable friends. The international community's great interest in further progress... is still being maintained by our country. He's smaller but he's present, but we kept him. It has threatened to lose that interest, in practice, and we expect that the High Representative and other agencies will step up their activities in the realisation of the provisions of the Mirovngo Agreement. I particularly wish to successfully assess the progress we are making in bringing European integration closer. The establishment of the text of the draft electoral law adopted by this Parliament this summer and its adoption is certainly one of the significant successes, thanks to the adoption of the law, our country is located, practically before the Council of Europe, which will significantly contribute to improving our country's reputation and contribute to attracting foreign direct investors to BiH. In this year we expect the start of negotiations with the European Commission on the development of a feasibility study. Our domestic currency is firmly tied to the new European currency of the euro and the convergence of the European Union remains an important priority and support for the stability of our country. We appreciate that a special indicator for a higher degree of political stability will thus be an economic success in connection with refugee returns. The return of refugees is not only a matter of justice, but also an issue of economic development. The result on this plan is, with all the obstacles that exist, better yet, just to remind you that compared to 2000, the result in the return of the assets was almost doubled from 21% in 2000 to 39% in 2001. I remind you, the conditions for admission to Europe by reaching the 50% limit. That line is now real and at this rate it can be accelerated. I particularly think it is important to point out that for the first time the rate of return to both entities has a positive trend of 55% in the Federation and 45% in RS. I think the higher the rate of return on refugees' assets will also follow the greater volume of foreign investment, because we can freely say that the faster we speed up the more return, the more 8 we speed up the process of giving people what is theirs, that it will be directly proportional to the foreign investments that will come into this country. Building a single economic space is an important priority and can be determined that the Council of Ministers recently established a single law on energy policy, which will lay the foundation of similar laws in other areas. We are aware of the urgent necessity and reorganization of tax policy, in order to make the business environment as efficient as possible. By introducing an additional value tax to work intensively, we will simplify the complex system that we now have and contribute to strengthening the single economic space. Our country's special advantage is assessed by relevant international institutions and foreign investors in a liberal foreign trade policy. We have a liberal import regime with the lowest tariffs in the region. With Slovenia, Croatia, Macedonia and Yugoslavia, we already have concluded free trade agreements, and we are in negotiations with Turkey and Romania to conclude similar arrangements. The aim of these agreements is to overcome the size of the domestic market and to open up a much bigger market for domestic business people and for all investors who come to our country. The special preferential regimes are agreed with the European Union and the United States, which also represent a great opportunity for foreign investors, who are starting investment in our country. During this period activities were also started to define the PC corridor construction project. This way we hope to improve our infrastructure and increase the degree of integration with the rest of Europe, which is an important assumption for creating a more favourable environment for foreign investment. In this year, the banking sector has significantly strengthened despite macroeconomic stability, we appreciate that this may be the most important result of the reforms we are carrying out, which is also confirmed by the European Bank's transition report on reconstruction and development for the past year. In the positive achievements of this Council of Ministers mandate, it is necessary to count and in particular highlight the beginning of the realization of what we call a CIPS project. After the adoption of a package of relevant laws in this assembly. The implementation of this package will allow BiH citizens to face less caution from the domestic border officials of the countries in which they travel and in the perspective of the increasingly smaller forms that we have to fill out today in order to travel in the perspective of abolishing what, conditionally, are today referred to as Schengen visas. I would like to thank you once again, otherwise, for your support so far and invite you to do this together in the coming months, what's left until October 5th when we expect to have evening preliminary results and tomorrow and real, to invite you to work together and in the coming months to increase the speed of reform, because there is a real danger that in the next six months this slows down as part of the pre-election activity. I just want to say from this pay phone that we're going to do everything as Council of Ministers, hopefully in the future to turn these things around and leave political debates for where political debates are being led. Otherwise, much time has been spent to diagnose the situation in many areas and we think we have enough knowledge in the nature of the problems that burden BiH. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I want to say that we can safely say that our country, as some say, is irreversible or what they say is unconstitutional and unchangeable towards becoming an actor of the upcoming European integration. Of these and future BH authorities, no matter who forms them will only depend on the speed of this process. This process will no longer be able to stop 9 and will not be able to change its course. We believe that the foundation for such a thing has been created in these years. Of the three strategic problems, which have been opened in recent decades, the state issue, the issue of borders and the issue of institutions, we can freely say that the two problems have been absorbed, ended and that they are behind us. Bosnia and Herzegovina definitely is, it is clear to all of us and to the whole world that BiH is a state, its borders have ceased to be questionable anywhere serious. We are still facing this third issue of building and strengthening institutions and the last few major challenges we have faced have been resolved, indeed, by a strategic dilemma. We have shown that BiH has become in the name of the state, not more of a name of a territory. Co-operation with neighbours and ways of international activities have made more of a stabilising factor in the region than the subject of its potential conflicts. Last year's tragic terrorist acts showed that our country has become part of global and regional solutions, not problems. For us, the most important thing is that we have done all of this first of all with a very clear awareness, I want to underline it here, and we are doing it for ourselves and with full historical and every responsibility, first of all to our own people and citizens of this country and to our own future. It's fortunate that we are part of the great world movement and that we are on the right side, but we are aware that we are doing all this, and in particular it has led us to do everything we do first and foremost in the interests of the citizens of this country and all three of its peoples. This council of ministers was turned to solving the accumulated problems, even when we were aware of the incompleteness of the first framework in which we worked. In cases where constitutional and legal irregularities threatened to further deepen peace, we tried to find a way to build our own institutions instead of commenting or commenting on problems and explaining to each other what cannot be done. I feel free to say that we have definitely managed to enter a non-divisible cataract particle on which Bosnia and Herzegovina writes and there somewhere in the explanation below says that both Hrvat and Srbin and Bošnjak and the Bogami and citizens of this country are each of them individually political owners one through one. Each of the next governments of this country and the authorities of this country are left to choose whether this KCBH will scold a joint home as we started, hopefully we're working or the cage we once lived in and we've lived in since '92. '95. in a cage and which will remain in Europe. Whether it's a home or a cage, I think it's the only thing we can choose is that KH BH stands. Today, I think the image of BiH is important and positively different from the one that followed us in the previous decade. I believe that the restoration of this neighbouring skyscraper that we started here under the economically self-sustainable principle of BOTA... will also build, benefit and transform for the needs of state institutions and international organisations and open to business firms that should make it, that it will be part of a new picture of a stronger and more economically attractive BiH. I think we can proudly conclude that in this Council of Ministers meeting in which here it ends, at least when it comes to me as chairman of the eight-month work, the High Representative has not imposed a single law from our domain. For the past eight months, no law has imposed a high representative of all we have done and this Parliament has done to the extent that it has done so. I hope that this will continue to be the case and that each of us will contribute to a more efficient work. I think that is why, after confirming the election of the new Council of Ministers' meeting that we expect in at least a few days, not only should the process of amending the Council of Ministers' Law in order to improve its functionality, but also to bring the procedures that make us more slow and inefficient in the legislative sphere. I think that in the next period, we might be able to commit ourselves a little bit to harmonising our rules of procedure, because it can be seen that in our daily work our offices of this house, the other home and the Council of Ministers are opening up a lot of room for unnecessary misunderstandings and slowing us down. I think there's good faith for that, and there's expertise to overcome. 10 The obligations arising from the accession to the Council of Europe are not only those that require the improvement of our work and behaviour so far, because the very needs of economic reform, the expectations of citizens make us believe it. I, therefore, finally, believe that we have nevertheless created assumptions that on this path that we have chosen and which is set to go to some future speed. In any case, the most important thing is that the reverse is no longer going and it's a shift and not so small. I thank you all once again for all, for your support, for the criticisms we've had and for all the beginnings that could be heard from this pay phone. I can freely say at the end of this, I believe that we have all become much more mature politically for this year and that, however, in some ways, we have begun to experience this space a little more as a space that we are common owners, even the misunderstandings that we had, it is normal to exist. We should get used to it, I thank you again for everything, just all the criticism we've had here. Be assured they helped us, too. I believe there will be more. I believe that you knew how much your criticism would help us, I believe you'd give up on many. That's why I'm suggesting, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6177	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, and before the river of criticism, praise, warning, I would like to remind Members of Article 135. Rules of Procedure. I'll read it for a while. The BiH Council of Ministers reports to the House on its work at least once a year, and this is this. Second, the House will consider a report on the work of the Council of Ministers of BiH within 30 days of its adoption, and we have respected that, 30 days from the day of submission of this written report within the deadline of course, a resolution can be adopted after the debate. So let's go, gentlemen, to the debate to help critics and remarks to the Council of Ministers to work for better and better quality at the rest of the time until the elections. Here you go, gentlemen. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Franjo Majdandžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6178	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished guests, respected representatives of the Council of Ministers, distinguished MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the apparition shows a very intense, comprehensive, contentable, I would say to me that this is a great surprise and pleasantness that we have accomplished such great tasks and that we have solved many problems that are very complex, very broad and in all sectors as reported on 126 pages, and from further explanations. I support this report, however, my remarks will be in it, you know, like when you have the right quantity of knowledge, then you just see how much you don't know. In doing so, we have achieved great results and we see what these problems are and how we can solve these problems even better and more comprehensively. I would pray in that sense that my contribution too is well accepted on purpose and that it is clearly tried that in some of my thesis, hypotheses and items I am wrong and we need to sort of agree on what is right and what is current and what should be. I'll be on my way. First, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly passed 25 laws, we rejected 6 laws, and that's kind of 24%, and 31 laws are being prepared. So you see very intensive work and the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers that prepares it. I say that, because I suggest 11 please make the bill, indeed, the way it should be, mean, professional, content and with the necessary reasons of the legislator, so that MPs and all of us together can make the law the way we need quality, modern and content. I think it would be productive for every draft of the law to make one such observation that the law is in line with European integration with our commitments and our plotted path to Europe, because many states, we have experience and those who contact know better, that many laws, for example. in Slovenia such information, many have been brought in which I do not have to say fine, and now they have to be brought back, realised, and it costs everything, is lost at the pace, etc. So, to be a law with all its contents, the bill to be pronouncing experts who would give the necessary reasons, and unfortunately we had such remarks which were not so expensive. Furthermore, in the area of human first and refugees there are data that 220,556 refugees have returned in the past four years, which is encouraging data, especially seeing the return trend, especially in the last year in RS, as there were problems there and there were around 80,993 returnees last year. However, I would ask that information be added to this which will show how many Bošnjak have returned to RS, how many Hrvat have returned. Some authors say that up until now 60,000 Bošnjak and 10,000 Hrvat have returned, it is, indeed, little and it is worrying, it warns and it points to what should be done, what should be done to make people come back and that somehow we succeed. So, that information just to be completed. We also have the information that 384,000 refugees have returned today, but one defeating data that needs to be painfully accepted, which warns, which is that 391,000 people have resolved their status in those countries, are mostly young, capable people, so these are lost to us, these are the limbs, most of them young people. Does this really suggest that everything needs to be done with redness and that this is one piece of information that tells us how it all reflects? It's certainly unfavourable for us. Furthermore, I think that this ministry should somehow offer programs that those people coming back have some kind of existence, some employment that's harder, but it should be some smaller programs, small, private farms, the second, third, so that somehow they would solve the employment problem of these people, because I'm not involved in some association to solve that return, and we always stumble on what these people are going to do and what they're going to live on. Somehow, we solve these existential, democratic issues first with the question of home recovery, etc., but what they will live on and how they will have their own existence. We should offer this through the clear construction of these smaller plants, farms, second and third, through funding and I have information that we have some financial resources that we might need to focus on these things. Here's the case that, we all know who they are. A case, for example. from Banja Luka, Srebrenica and the Drava case. A Drava case with Serbs to tell you right away. It's a very big problem, etc. Or another case, you see whatever city you want and whatever nation you want. It's not just a matter of one nationality, you understand. So it should do a little bit, so this man has to have some kind of life that he's going to live on, how he's going to do it with how, on the other hand, we have many of our processors, this industry, for example. Here I know the meat products industry, etc. In talks with them both in Bosnia and Croatia in talks with them, they torture raw materials. They import mainly from Vojvodina, Hungary, Slovakia, etc. And we need to develop this livestock business, etc. These private little ones that will sort it out through... first of all, we're going to solve the question, and in our case, the twisting of that capital. And the other thing we're going to do is we're going to solve the question of people, which is really positive, etc. With that, I'm also looking at some kind of employee structure. In this ministry, we have 63 employees, of the 36 college students. Unfortunately, these are mostly lawyers, etc., but we need them well, but we need to give them to me far more, because it's a large structure and it's a large number. 12 Is it in the vault area? I'd just like to ask some questions like this. So the data says we're in last year, and in the end with last year, the total debt of this country is $1.933 billion. I'd beg one assessment, if it's much compared to other countries. Is this reasonable compared to our gross product, our economic power, etc., and you would also ask for more information that will speak about the gross product per capita that is usually given. For Croatia it is about a thousand dollars, for Slovenia it is four thousand dollars, for Hungary it is two and a half thousand dollars etc. where we are, where we move, etc. and what is now said by our prime minister should be done on the economic plan to speed up this process, this wheel, some kind of development and the second third is whether. So a little bit through that is there's a country that's too long and then it's hard to reflect. That's all, I don't know, I'm not an economist, but that's all I'm convincing, this disrupts after whether or not it's in that relationship, and it's very difficult to deal with tragically, etc. The privatisation plan on page 9 stands – co-operation with the entity's privatisation agencies has been achieved. All relevant information regarding privatisation has been forwarded through the state DKP network from our citizens abroad. We are familiar with the privatisation process in Brcko District, which takes place according to a special model. I would beg to be there, although privatisation is in the jurisdiction of the entity, but that's one general good. So I'm looking at it now, maybe I'm wrong, the general good of all citizens that little and this of our Council of Ministers, through entities, is engaged in a certain way to make the privatisation process primarily the same model. And only one model can be optimal, only one model can be correct, and we have two models seem to me. It can't be that each other is exactly the right thing to do. Further let us see these funds from privatisation whether they are going on purpose, which is intended to create new drives, new jobs, or whether it is too difficult to fill the budget. One part must have to, but if it fills the budget most of the time, then it's, we know what it is, then we cut the branch where we're standing, and it's a really difficult situation that I don't know needs to be overcome, and that's not the right solution, clearly we need to go to it. He would still ask the question of how much in percentages the total so far has been privatised and how much left to privatise and how much of this total privatised mass has gone for purpose, we know what it is for purpose, and how much left to fill the budget, etc. Let us also see that it would suggest that we certainly do a little bit more of this to spend on opening new jobs and expanding reproduction, rather than just filling the budget, etc. He would further ask why no social security agreement has been signed with the Republic of Croatia, and it was signed on our luck with a dozen states and with countries of others in the environment. I think that's necessary. We today have one case that several thousand people, clearly our citizens who are in Croatia, have no status resolved. The problems are, here's one particular problem to tell you honestly, if I retire tomorrow with 30 years of employment in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I will have 0 pensions from working 30 years in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Is it okay now or isn't it? You see, but here, I'm telling you as an example, and these are unfortunately examples of a thousand etc. Your relationships aren't arranged. Well, let's not make that our citizens. Well, the people of the state are made for citizens, for people, etc. Don't play for some of them. Further from the Council of Ministers' activities, I see that there have been major problems, and our problems have been to make rebalancing, the second third, and somehow meet the budget financing processes because it has to be working and living. We, for example. We have information that the Foreign Ministry is only 76% paid out of the budget. So there are problems. But I'd go the other way. The problems are we don't have enough money, let's solve the problems of how to have that money. Look, when I ask someone, this is how I contact some businessmen and 13 citizens, why aren't some capacities set in motion? Why isn't Agrokomerc working for us? Why doesn't he work for us, well, let's tell a lot of other companies. Then it pays off, no one alive as being totally responsible and entities are responsible, we're not responsible, they're not still responsible. Ipada is now no one's alive responsible, we all need it to be alive, and we will succeed if we open the plants, if we open new jobs. So there must be some model to analyze it, to stimulate it, and to somehow activate it, to form if working groups should, if necessary, and I don't know what to do to make it possible to open these capacities, to overcome certain states, etc. We have bright examples, and we have somewhere where we really are, I've almost read one very, very nice piece of information that we have very good in the area of the High, etc. I was happy when I looked at it. Thank God that's true, but let's give such examples a lot, etc. That's all I'd like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6179	Thank you very much, Mr. Majdandžić. Let me just remind future participants in the debate that today's debate on the report on the work of the Council of Ministers, not all problems, political, economic and social in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Mr. Šarganović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6180	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Speaker of the Assembly, Mr. Prime Minister's Council President, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to thank you for the oral presentation of Mr. President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Lagumdžija, despite having a written report on the modest presentation of this Council of Ministers, has shown very modestly to us here. I believe this report is very professionally analytical and even more and more concisely made up of which we can see and look at the activities of the Council of Ministers. I think this report in this form is very good and that we should ultimately adopt it as such. The huge positive shifts that cannot be described are reflected in Bosnia and Herzegovina's greater vulnerabilities as a country for both neighbours of Croatia, Yugoslavia and in the wider environment of Southeast Europe, across Europe and the whole world. We're witnessing it, and I think it should be said for this pay phone here, openly, clearly and loudly, that it is also known. As far as the report itself is concerned, I would say that, in addition to intensive quality cooperation at the level of the Council of Ministers, the Presidency, this House has also achieved high quality cooperation at the level of the Council of Ministers of Entitys, the Council of Ministers of the Neighbouring State, especially ours, our strategic neighbours such as Croatia and Yugoslavia, and there are huge shifts that cannot be written and measured here by simple reports. The number of sessions, the number of laws, sublegal acts, etc. It also tells us about the activities that have been conducted and done. As for strengthening the DGS, we witnessed problems that occurred and all that needed to be removed to strengthen the DGS to 90% of provide Bosnia and Herzegovina's border. Of course, we are now at a stage when it is necessary to strengthen the state institutions in order, respecting what the colleague of the president has been saying, to step forward in the match in international norms, i.e. first in Southeast Europe, and also in Europe alone. 14 I would also highlight the very important documents that we have received here, such as the economic development strategy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the vision that we have had here for the development of Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. As for the approximation of the EU, the integration processes, and there are significant shifts made, that is, huge shifts have been made, only for us in this short period of time, it is difficult to go back now and see what was the situation, etc. He would point out here the CIPS project and the implementation of easier communication with Western Europe by business people, whether they are small business enterprises, medium or large. To intensify activity on this project so that our businessmen and business people can do their jobs more easily and intensively. Finally, I would say that Bosnia and Herzegovina, thanks to the active involvement of the Council of Ministers and gentlemen in the anti-terror coalition, has taken its place in response, achieved certain results and therefore has a proper recognition from the leading states in the anti-terror coalition in the world and that this is the path that we should continue to go on. In the end, I support this report and I propose that we adopt it and move even faster towards the euro integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6181	Thank you very much, Mr. Šarganović. Mr. Kovačević.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6182	Ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed presidency, honourable MPs and members of the Council of Ministers, has been before us for a year in the work of the Council of Ministers and we have heard a report which has been submitted in a very political, charming way by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Zlatko Lagumdžija. I think Bosnia and Herzegovina has achieved envious results in this year's period of international co-operation and the opening of Bosnia and Herzegovina abroad. It is also the problems that Bosnia and Herzegovina faced during that period, which is the fight against corruption, the fight against anti-terrorism, terrorism and other negative segments in society that have just strengthened the positions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and not weakened because it has awakened certain and warned us about certain dangers that are still lurking and need to be dealt with in the coming period. I, in addition to this global meaning, will look back on the initial questions of a year ago which have been left unresponsive and one specific small segment I will look back on in particular from banking, and this second question that I will look at is that this is good...the rule of law that there is nothing without it and without certain institutions through which it works. But this third issue of economic reform that I wouldn't rank as Professor Lagumdžija, the rule of law, whether it's crossover, but economic reforms are, in my opinion, the most important thing for us is economics. Therefore, we are on economic reform only at the beginning of the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina in some initial steps. Economic reforms are not, they are started here and there unheard. 15 In response to one of my questions that I asked before Mr Lagumdžija took office, I said that in the end when he submitted this final report – how much did the gross product in Bosnia and Herzegovina grow in this year, how much has employment increased, how much has the salary, pensions increased, and how much has the standard of living been improved? It's a question that's lost its answer, and I appreciate it. There's some saying, it's an entity thing, etc. But I think that in future Bosnia and Herzegovina will really have to deal with the economy, the self-sustaining economy that we have declared through various political and other, road maps, a self-sustainable economy to create Bosnia and Herzegovina. Without creating a self-sustainable economy and without these segments of growth, means development, employment, etc. there is no prosperity between Bosnia and Herzegovina in poverty and misery. I also think so in the future and future of each Council of Ministers, I suggest that, in addition to these governments and rights, they be these, the main preoccupation of one country's economies. The one when it's good all the questions are settled. And third of all, I just wanted to, I'm not into some big debate. I would like to warn you that in the following year, some provisions of the law expire on us and on the Central Bank and Mr Lagumdžija mentioned that our currency is firmly tied to the EUR and that's fine, but we need to study in the future or through some study, is it different to look at the relationship between the Karness Board and the Development? We know and I talked about it at the Commission on Budget and Finance in the presence of the Governor of the Central Bank for a little while longer, and I would only remind that it should, because next year they're outlining some of the provisions of the Central Bank Act and seeing if we're going to go back to the Central Bank as a Central Bank, as a Central Bank to all other countries. So the modern market economy and the modern world, or we're going to keep this big central bank like this. which only sees the broadcasting of currencies, and is neglected through that karensi board. The development stops, employment stops, and all other economic parameters that contribute when there is a Central Bank in the way that the Bank works... or Deutsche Bank or Federal Reserve in the United States that function on the principle of central bank emissions as well as monetary mass regulators and money broadcasting and all that. So also along with this jd close, I'm gonna end up now. He says strengthening the vault, I agree that the vault institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina is stronger, but not in this way as it was...I was saying when it was the concession law and Mr Lagumdžija told me about some father who left the house and the cottage, so he sold something, but I was saying that gold is always the most useful thing to sell at the given moment when the highest market price is and that it shouldn't rush to the sale of gold, because it's the goods that are most converted into money. However, our vault hastened to sell that gold, in the meantime in two months, three gold prices jumped 15, 17% and perhaps lost on that transaction, I won't throw any numbers, I know how many millions of marks it is, etc. And he could, without the concession law, they could always sell it today and tomorrow. Today for tomorrow. Gold is more money-efficient, so I'd be begging that vault if it wasn't always going to run ahead, there's no need for that, etc. I wouldn't qualify it with any hard words or put on some big grudges, but some things need to be done rationally, as the economy demands. If there are no professional people, we will engage on the side, there are foreign teams, there are domestic experts who are slightly more in the economy than someone from their chair. It's a living matter of the economy. Therefore, I would like it to be as Dr Lagumdžija said that the rating will increase by one 20% after the debt, so be it, and it is ours to appreciate whether an individual's rating or a rating of Bosnia and Herzegovina has grown to our locals. We need to take care of them first, because they chose us, and how much he grew off the record. So much and thank you very much. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6183	Thank you. Mr. brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6184	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers of Lagumdžija, honourable MPs and guests, I will try to take a brief look at Mr Lagumdžija's presentation to present my opinions and opinions. There is one thing that I and Mr Lagumdžija agree with, when he said at the beginning of the mandate that he wanted to make a better environment, a political environment for every citizen and for every member of the people in BiH, so that we could move forward faster. However, I fear that this good wish remains only a good wish, and from this report that we have received, which has been presented to us, I have noticed one flaw from which people from past power cannot be freed, simply they are not guilty. In fact, they've always shown things more beautiful than they are and they can't get rid of it. I don't blame Mr. Lagumdžija for coming out here, and in every step, we took a step forward, but he said one sentence, I don't know if he's aware, and he is safe. He said, probably the living standard of people today is weaker than a year and a half ago. There's something about exposure. It seems to me something like that. I said something of the occasion, I was paraphrasing, I wasn't quoting. Then why is that? Because we haven't improved the political environment much better and there's no such thing as that in the report. There are environments in BiH where the environment is better and there is where it is worse, there is a step, there is no step. That should be made clear. What not to say, not to criticize someone, but to point out that something needs to be changed faster for the good of all of us here. I said in an earlier meeting for a payphone, when we returned from visiting one part of BiH, that the most responsible mad in the Mediterranean Canton and his deputy said, very responsibly that in 2002 it would be a complete return on the tucanton, which made me very happy and I brought it out here and told you, but also then I said and now I say it again, is that a solution for Bosnia, if only in one canton or in one environment. For me, the solution when we get assurances that we've made such an ambiance in the entire BiH area, I hope, if Bogda is back this month with a team on the ground again. One team will go there towards Krajina, one will go towards Herzegovina and I will probably go there towards Zvornik, Janja and Bijeljina, I would like to bring the haber out of that space the same one that I brought from the Middle Bosnian Canton that will be done and that means that this environment should be sacrificed by all of us, that is, this executive authority to do so. But it's not exactly like that, and it's my main objection to this report that some things that aren't good are not said, should be said. Self-critical is a virtue, not a weakness. Namely, I'm going to point out some things here, I'm going to go over this one, I've just recorded this report, I'm sorry, I'm only going to point to two or three places as an example of a refund. I think we often use it, it's imposed, it's already an established self-sustainable return. It's either he's got it or he's gone. If it's not sustainable, then it's not coming back, and I think that's where we have to learn to change the terminology. Returning is the one where it's sustainable, where it's not self-sustainable, it's not a return, it's torture again. So that's where we need to start that environment when it comes to that return. Next, when you talk here in one place about conflict activities. I think we did some things and we didn't make the law or any decision. When it comes to bilateral relations, especially with neighbors, I'm afraid here in the report, and I'd love to, but it's not like that. Let's just say, why doesn't it work, we here in our 17th Parliament ratified the Neum deal and the Tablet. What isn't in the Croatian Parliament? Which we don't say goes a ton. It just doesn't work. What's not going on? We don't have a complete normalization of relationships with any of the neighbors that they should have normal neighbors, but let's move on to something, but there's no indicator. I'm interested in accurate indicators. Where these indicators, where this step is better, where it is better quality, where the impact of neighbours on the BiH environment is better, etc. Furthermore, when it comes to multilaterals, when it comes to the European Union, about the Council of Europe, the Security Pact, we are too sweet to say. It's not that good. There's no talking about a partnership for peace until some things are done. We know which one. Those things don't move out of place. We know what needs to be done without talking about the Union then, because the Partnership for Peace is a step towards the Union. We're not even close, and we don't need to know where the cause is that it's not going? Because when the Alliance came to power she said the changes were, but I don't see these changes qualitatively, because some things are screwed up. The way the government has chosen the Alliance, it may be good in a one-national state, in the complex as we are, I think it is not and in BiH no one must forget that there must be one relationship between civil and national. He can't beat each other. There's got to be a balance here. To be national and civil in one normal relationship, not to bother one another, but to value one another and to consider one another to be a value. Once that's done, we won't be in trouble. The way the Alliance tried to solve a matter, it created a self-government that we didn't need, which reversed certain processes in BiH. It had to be looked at in a different way. I'm just stating that one example. I want to say one more thing very clearly here when the work of the Council of Ministers is on the ground, that it was rude to violate the Constitution and the law and guaranteed human first and basic freedom in the event of the delivery of so-called. Algerian groups. For six naturalised Bosanac of Algerian origin, the name of the Algerian group has already been domesticated, which associated that these people have joined for the purpose of carrying out a terrorist act and if it has been found that they did not know each other at all. The irrefutable facts about illegal actions in this case have been confirmed by the Helsinki Committee on Human Rights of BiH, even Federation Prime Minister Alija Behmen is their member, then the prominent Amnestinternacional, the ombudsmen, intellectual circles and the free-thinking public of this country. It is not only the human rights of persons who are the release of suspicions of terrorism that have affected our judiciary, the principle of independence of the judiciary, and despite the fact that the BiH Supreme Court has released the suspected six terrorism charges, they are illegally under the same suspicion and for the same real reason delivered. In order for the absurd to be complete, what our authority has done cannot be legally qualified as an extradition, because there is no requirement for extradition, nor can it be treated as an exorcision, because after the solution has been executed they would be expelled to the country of origin. Something happened and you don't know what. Maybe the best name is ethnic cleansing. The act of delivery proved that our Supreme Court is not supreme because the Council of Ministers is above it. The House of Human Rights is not the largest judicial facility for the human first, because the Council of Ministers does not care about his order, to delay the delivery of naturalised Bosanac. By the way, let me say that the Council of Ministers is not a band or a legislative authority, because they sold gold from a succession, without proper law. Mr Lagumdžija in Zagreb agrees to change the interstate agreement on Luka Ploče and if the agreement is ratified in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The Council of Ministers makes a decision that can be declared undesirable in BiH, etc. All of these should not have been subject to legal regulation in both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Gentlemen, 18 MPs, we are watching and silently, at the establishment of a government in a state of control, absolute domination takes over executive power. The executive authority has proved that it is governed by the judicial and legislative will. This further means that the government is concentrated in a very narrow circle of own-loving individuals who think they are state. Well, gentlemen, they're not the state. It is generally known that the delivery came after the hard-boiled pressures and the twisting of our people's hands in executive power. Unfortunately, neither is the fact that the government is prepared to admit it, for it must be the shame of its servantship. Is the verbal note of a foreign state a legal act older than the Supreme Court's acquittal and sufficient grounds for extradition. When our authorities did their homework, the representatives of the most powerful force simply washed their hands, because the dead cold ones declared that they did not put any pressure or blackmail on anyone. First the stronger one gives them first to act like one. Likely, a hundred computers and a bag of dollars were donated as a reward to the Foreign Ministry. Our government has dirtyed our hands, crushed our own judiciary, so all the stories of building the first state, the rule of law, building institutions are simply untasteful. Loyalty to those who have enthroned them and not to the legal order and laws of BiH cannot be placed between the rule of law and democratic states. Gentlemen in many countries have been arrested by persons whose terrorist intentions have been proven, but those countries have not delivered them. Why didn't they? Because these countries respect their own judicial system, the European Convention on Human First Id of the International Convention. Why should others respect us when we don't respect ourselves? The Council of Ministers was not interested at all in what happened next to the delivered Alžirac. Mr. Mišić's statement, head of the Anti-Terrorist team. I ask you and the Council of Ministers, Ivic Mišić, whose citizens are women and underage children of alžirac. They're Bosanac. Do they have the right to treat their country not as their citizens but as human beings? What will be the answers of this country to the questions of those taken away by foster parents, husbands, and fathers. Can we really be present as representatives of the people to pretend we didn't know? I don't think anyone had the right to play so recklessly with human destiny, no matter what higher interests it was. If the blame is found, let them bear the consequences of both them and their families. But based on suspicion of sending people to cafes, it's really cruel. I saw in front of Central Prison and how it was happening. Bad directing, even worse performances. For all things, if I could not prevent anything, I can at least be a member of this House and above all as a man to express my protests and disgust. In an interview with "Days" in full commitment to the military topic, Mr. Lagumdžija, after heated protests by human rights organisations, intellectuals and citizens tried to justify the execution of the claim that these people came to BiH to change the character and nature of BiH and its most numerous people. Later, his Vocoposition Party comrades further developed beast theory under the means of domestic media... sensations. Party listeners went one step further to the SDA's address that she allegedly wanted to change the philosophy of living Bosnian musliman. When they succeeded in communists’ impenetrable atheisation and all kinds of discrimination against musliman and others over 45 years of one-party rule, could a handful of foreigners have married domestic women. By the logic of things and the environment in which they live, rather the bions received domestic philosophy than their imposed. I remind you that after World War II, the communists passed a law on the detachment of the Zara and the Ferredge, and then he was embezzled by supporters of the party and violently applied in the Mahals. For those of you who don't know cover is a matter of choice, tradition, habit or custom. There's no coercion. Have communist authorities given offensive and humiliating functions and contents to many mosques and other Islamic objects. Wasn't 19 in the army of the believers served the food that was forbidden for them. About the arrests and the exiled musliman, I'm not going this way. There are thousands of examples of the most severe violations of human first and religious discrimination at that time. Former members of the party now wearing a different suit want to convince the public that a handful of people threatened to change the philosophy of the life of musliman in Bosnia. If we weren't faced with serious consequences, this would be a clue and comical. The SDP leaders, above all, fear the people with the possibility of being transferred to BiH by bloody Algerian opportunities. Typically communist. If you don't know how to solve a problem, make up an enemy, then get rid of them. Gentlemen, BiH will never be Algeria, although some people wish and call on it only to preserve their chairs. On the question of journalist Dan. Would SFOR have arrested the Alžirac, six alžirac if they hadn't delivered them by chance, Mr Lagumdžija replied yes. Why did the chairman of the Council of Ministers not let that happen instead of organising the defamation of the state and his own. The answer lies in the... subjective mentality that we will never cease to be a colony and banana state. He further claimed that SFOR would prosecute them because it has first under the Dayton Agreement. I'd like someone to tell me where it says in the Dayton Agreement or in the Constitution of this state that SFOR has the right and to arrest and be a judge. As one of the arguments for a decision on a shameful delivery, Annex I to Article 3nd paragraph 2 called for all foreign citizens who were in any military formations in BiH to leave BiH. If his argument is why then BiH has not left thousands of ethnic Srbin in the RS military because they are Croatian citizens. They've all won or won BiH citizenship. One archaic for them and one for the musliman. In advance, I ask you not to rephrase me, to talk about a people whose brothers came from Croatia. I understand, because I too can call on the Musliman to be brothers. It is known that Croatia is looking through the Interpol for a large number of Srbin indicted for war complexes in the country. I'm not entering the justification or validity of the indictments, but I'm asking if our government is handing these people over to the neighbouring state. He's not giving up. It doesn't occur to them to do that. But that's why Tomislav Limov Deputy Minister of the Interior in justifying the obvious illegal evidence of Mr Lagumdžija's attempt to Algerian Bosnia is simply broken in the media by defending the dignity of the Bosniak people. Don't defend us again, we'll have Tomislava's spine bursting. In anti-Muslim hysteria that has spread all over the world, after terrorist attacks on the United States, these neocommunists have become more Catholics than the papa. The MUP has yet to find out who broke into Mr. Halilagić's cabinet of one of the key men in the execution, in the middle of the Council of Ministers building where he works, to probably get the documents. If the head of the anti-terrorist team, despite his authority and police's incompetence, can guess motives according to everything, and allow me, too, to ask the question of whether it's a cover-up case and the conclusion of compromising documents and just to end up with two more findings. It's incomprehensible to me, I simply can't understand that Mr. Lagumdžija spoke in one place in the interview dan about Fascising a virtual musliman in Bosnia. I would like to remind that Musliman in BiH in 1941, when fascism haro Europe had the strength to come out publicly in 12 BiH cities with resolutions on the protection of Srbin, Jevrej and all other citizens in BiH, or the then NDH, and when the minister from Zagreb came to Sarajevo to protest, Reis said "de and I will sign each resolution." Today 2002, to accuse Bošnjak, musliman of fascillation, I think that's why they should apologize to this people. One more thing I suggest. To form a parliamentary group, to establish an actual state of affairs around the Algerian group. Thank you. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6185	Thank you very much, Mr. brkati. I'm obliged as chairman of the House Representative to intervene. I must remind you, I didn't interrupt your colleague, Brka, let me. I must remind you that we as MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of other countries and to choose words when we talk about other countries and their representatives. We cannot say that representatives of other BiH countries encourage BiH institutions to violate international documents on human rights and freedoms. As for our internal relations in BiH, between political parties and political figures, these MPs can ignore the fact that they are diplomats at the same time, but I ask you, when we talk about other countries, about representatives of other countries, to choose words. These are the first ones to behave in international relations. Thank you very much. Who answered the word? I'll get the list. If there's no replicas, false allegations, then I'll get the list. Mr. Baković, are you looking by the list? All right, you'll get it. The replica, Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6186	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the honourable members of the Council of Ministers, I think this is a missed political investment by Members of the Brk for the purpose of the election campaign. In the 1990s, after the fall of the communist party of the former country, a large part of the communist party moved to the SDA and, in that sense, this speech, read by MP Brk, reflects to the most extent the old time forgotten, but cannot pass. I repeat once again, it's a missed political investment. Two things I just want to say. The current government and MP Brk should not defend Bosnian musliman from the current government in BiH. Nor is he an exclusive protector or defender of vital Bosniak interests in BiH. So that role cannot be provided or tried. The current government did not generate Croatian self-government. They are constantly setting up the thesis and performing a thought-out, simple provocation, which is heading towards devalueing the BiH government system, which is the only possible objective when a way of functioning in a multiethnic state is well considered. Which means last November 2000 elections, MP brkati, that a political party such as HDZ, an illustration for the sake of which he won most of the Croatian people, was not in the current government could happen in a multiethnic state. That's what happened to the SDA. So it can happen in a multiethnic state that it doesn't have to be in executive power, in a legislative way not in the Smoke People, it's not controversial, but... it doesn't have to be and it happened and it's the legitimate decision of this home. In the election of the Council of Ministers and a legitimate decision in the Federal Parliament, etc. And it's just not understanding, absolutely, the essence of the functioning of a complex state community. This is, the segnination rejects this message that the current government generated the Croatian smaoab first and that the Croatian self-response was the answer to what was happening simply in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. There is another reason, and in this context, the representative of HDZ made it clear, after a year, that the project of Croatian self-inflicted self-inflicted project and not to worry about the project. There's someone else to worry about. That's one thing. Secondly, I ask you once again, Commissioner brkati is neither smaller nor larger Bosnian musliman than those who sit in this house and those who are in other political parties. So forget that the thesis that someone exclusively defends or protects the interests of a people in BiH. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6187	Thank you. The replica Mr. Brka is called and has a right, so you will receive Mr. Šarganović, but he is directly named Mr. brkati by his name and has a right. Here you go, Mr. Brk.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6188	I ask Mr. Avdić not to replace the thesis. I have not said for a moment that I am an exclusive representative, which I want to wish for myself to every citizen of BiH, every citizen and every member of every nation in BiH. But you won't be able to challenge the fact that I lived in that time when you were alone in power and I know how I lived and I don't think God ever lived like that to me again. I have the right to say what I think here. There's no other greater right than I am. We're equal MPs here, Mr. Avdić. I said in the first sentence the Alijansa and Mr. Lagumdžija had good intentions, but I think the project is not the best. I know what parliamentary democracy is, and I know that in this parliamentary democracy sometimes someone can be in power and it doesn't have to be in power, and I understand that, but so do I and my party talk all the time and we will be in the state government of BiH with all the parties and all the movements that BiH wants. There's no exclusivity with you, you don't want those statements that are national parties. I am proud to be in the SDA and to be in the SDA and to know what she did for this BiH and for the citizens of BiH, even for me, and for you Mr. Sejo Avdić and for you she did it, because neither Osman would have been here nor would Sejo have been there if it hadn't been for such anti-fascism since '92. '95. And all the honest citizens who did it, and I'm not going back to it. I want to start BiH's first environment for the whole of BiH. I want every citizen at every rate in BiH to have the same freedom, so that I can come to Banja Luka and Mostar and Mr Banjac as I do to sit and drink coffee together. I want to go with Avdo and Lagumdžija. Not with this I will or with this I won't. Everyone who wants BiH will be with them. Whoever doesn't want Bosnia, I can't go with them.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6189	We have two replicas Mr. Šarganović and Mr. Banjac. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm afraid you'll get your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6190	I've got both an incorrect quote and a replica and all kinds of things.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6191	Whatever suits you, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6192	I really think that we have decided here that our rhetoric, that our presentation of our criticisms and our praises and suggestions are in the interest of this BiH home. I think we did it, even more so we signed it. We signed the statement here, that we would do everything in the interest of the citizens. However, by waking up a sharp wound and a ton of ways that really aren't right. I don't think that's one step, it's more steps back, which I think I respect Mr. Osman Brk, and I think he's emotionally saying some things, but I don't think that's right. Bosnia and Herzegovina with this Council of Ministers, I'm going to repeat there is more credibility, if we're going to measure 95% compared to the time this Council of Ministers took over. In the fight 22 against terrorism, we voted here on the measures to be taken, which should be taken by the authorities in BiH and voted all of them. Well, it seems to me that some of them didn't, maybe they were unconsciously voting. All those who believe that BiH should not be determined to fight terrorism on the side of the anti-terrorism coalition should say it here that they are them, that BiH should fight terrorism in such words as we are against terrorism, etc. And when there's something concrete to be done, then we're not. I really think that it's a distortion of facts and bringing Bosnia and Herzegovina's situation to a certain point of view, I don't know what that would be. I would really ask that in the future we speak nicely here, fine, to choose words as to how we say certain things and exclusives... my predecessor Mr. Brka calls as an exclusive representative of me and everyone else, I think that exclusive doesn't stand. Second, a concrete example, on the Unsanitary Canton of Mr. Osman, your party is exclusively new just to let you know. The shifts are so retrograde that they went 20 years back. Those are the results.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6193	Thank you. Mr. Banjac, incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6194	Dear gentlemen, first of all, I would like to welcome you all and ask the Bureau to conduct this session on the agenda and to direct discussions in the direction in which you should focus on the content of the agenda. And I'm sorry to have to say what I'm about to say, but believe me, what I'm saying is true. People are different from some other living beings because they are emotional beings, but please don't let emotions go ahead of consciousness, because then we come into a very strange situation. Gentlemen, I, of course, don't have first on behalf of the club because of the situation in which I am looking for a break, but if I hear once again that the rhetoric in this assembly is being used by fascism, fascists and others, gentlemen chairing the order or interrupt the assembly. Don't, I ask you, contrary to international regulations, international agreements, in this House, to use rhetoric is not appropriate to civilised Europe and the world, and then we are surprised that others don't understand us or that others are insulting us, so I can't accept or accept something like that when I do. If, once again in this House, I say to you, such rhetoric arises, I will leave the session as a man as an intellectual, as a politician I will not return until the person who uses it is removed from the session and therefore you gentlemen will be chaired by you to bear responsibility. I ask the OHR of the international institutions to help us here to the rhetoric that has brought evil to these places, and I have not participated in this evil, so that you all know that I am not, I have the right to tell you all, you have no right to say it to me and I have a first. I didn't participate in any destruction in any evil or any anti-civilization flows that have happened here, so you have to accept this as a friend of mine and of course I'm willing to sit down with you all in a proper manner, but don't insult me. I feel offended as a man as an MP, I'm not telling anyone. So, gentlemen, trying to re-enhancing relationships here isn't or can be well-intentioned. It is neither possible nor possible to be aimed at the progress that he spoke about, chairing the Council of Ministers in his presentation and I will discuss in the discussion what I think about both this work and such activities, and I ask you, it is quite clear to me, and I accept that BiH is surrounded by countries in which we have peoples who are here and don't think about these peoples in a different way than the people who are part of these peoples here, I think of Bosniaks who are 23 in other countries, I mean Srbin who are in other countries and I mean Hrvat who are in other countries, and I can't identify it or want it with other peoples, because above all, I care about the agreement of these peoples, because there was never a misunderstanding in BiH of citizens, but there was no misunderstanding of the people and there was no misunderstanding of the people, and don't make anything ugly that could be a new misunderstanding of the people. Let's make something that'll be a deal for the people.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6195	Thank you. An incorrect quote from Mr. Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6196	I believe that Mr. Brka wanted to talk about BiH's defence with that I must remind him that BiH's representatives were also defending the Croatian people, and when it comes to HDZ he had the greatest support of the Croatian people at the time and organized the defence in sources when the BiH Presidency, or the state institutions were not able or, I believe that they wanted but I believe that they were not able to organise the common defence, then the areas where the Hrvat and other peoples lived, or where the majority Hrvat lived was organised the defence of BiH, and I have to remind you that in '91, when the direct territory of BiH where the direct conflict was opened, that is the area of the Fair and the valley of Neretva and not only the SDA participated in this defence, and I do not believe that there was a fascist who attacked you, it is quite the subject of one of the other thing and I think that the anti-strestrestreme and that the anti-s of BiH were the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6197	Just one sentence, before I give my word to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, for the third time, I intervened and asked to return to the agenda and this is the report on the work of the Council of Ministers. For the second time I have prayed, asked for our respect and choice of words when we talk about other countries friendly to BiH and for the third time, please don't let the Members of Parliament bring the College into an awkward situation that I must, as well as the chairman, have to interrupt the session. If the words they insult are used, they demean any people in BiH, they bring us into the position of rhetoric, which has preceded, so that which was before, I will have to interrupt the session for this reason. Please do not bring members of the College into that position. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6198	Dear colleagues, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament - MPs, I am truly sorry, I announced at the beginning that I would have to go, there remain other members of the Council of Ministers. This is a joint report by the Council of Ministers, in which I only submitted the opening statement. It is well known, I suppose in preparation for this session, I came from only this session yesterday, and now I am going thanks, indeed, to the great hospitality of my fellow Greek Prime Minister, who will allow me to be in Greece today, although it is planned to come from Tehran there, but this Parliament, which is why I came here and I am truly sorry again, that I will not be here until the end, so I am convinced that my fellow ministers will be able to answer the questions that are before you. I will not try to answer everything, but I thanked everyone at the beginning 24 and I repeat that gratitude once again and those who gave a positive assessment and those who, with positive grades, made a very first reference to some of the things that should improve Mr Majdandžić and Mr. Šarganović, Kovačević and Brk and Mr. Avdić and Grabovac and Banjac and all of you who spoke. I'll just try to answer a few questions that are directly asked here. I think it would be good to say that with the indicators I was talking about that Mr. Kovačević asked about, it is my turn to say a few of these indicators. In fact, perhaps the best, best source of data was the recently published study of a prominent London economist who was made for the first investment conference held in the Holiday Inn three weeks ago, when their most prestigious research unit in some countries was the first review of the situation in BiH, and I honestly must admit that this is one of the most pleasant surprises for me, the content and the audience, and I fully understood why such an interest was increased by global investors. In fact, I'm only going to make a comparison this year compared to the last one you asked me to tell you that the social product in 2000 was about 9,000, nine million and twenty-two million KM in 2001, and it was 10 million and 111, 10 billion I apologize. So nine billion and 261 in 2000-ditho in 2001. 10 billion and 111 million KM. You can see that the growth of the social product was known in 2000-dithoy about 5.9% and in 2001 it was 6%. I want to specifically point to this indicator 5.9 6 here is much harder to increase, so I say percentages of jidi-pi growth after a certain limit. You can see that 5.9 was in 2000 and 2001. 6.0 growth of jidi-pia, but that's comparable to some other indicators I want to show you. The global growth of Gjidi-pi in 2000 was 4.7% and in the European Union 3.3 in BiH 5.9. The growth of social product in 2001 increased by 2.2, so in the world the jidi-pi in 2000 grew 4.7 and in 2001 2.2 occurred when working with jidi. In BiH, in such a world environment, djidi-pi from 5.9 is growing to 6.0 in the European Union in 2000, its growth in the European Union was 3.3% in BiH 5.9 and the growth of djidi-pi in the European Union in 2001 was 1.5. So you can see that the growth of jidi-pi is in highly developed countries in 2001 compared to 2000. 50% down. That at the world level it fell by about 30% and that the growth of the jidi-pi in 2001 grew by some 3-4% conditionalally compared to that figure. That I think it contains answers to a lot of other questions. I wouldn't just want to stay on it, because they always know, especially the respected colleague Kovačević knows very well that you can data, especially with one piece of information you can justify whatever you want, but this is really one piece of information that I've comparatively given to have a little better awareness of it. Exports to BiH in 2002, i.e. the balance of payments, was minus $774m, and in 2001 the imbalance was down to minus 700. From minus 774 to minus 700 in such a world environment. Also, let me tell you what, I think one of the greatest successes, that 99th of our reserves were at the Central Bank in a hard currency of $452 million to end in 2000 with $497 million. The first quarter, because three months we've outsmarted what we're going to do with power, the first quarter ended with $470 million in foreign exchange reserves. So he fell from 497 to 470 in order to go back to 497 in the third one to 588 and here, I really want to cheer you up, this is a joint report to end in 2001 with a foreign reserve of $920 million in the Central Bank of BiH. So much for the data that's talking about it. 25 Industrial production, otherwise with 8% in last year 2000-ditoj increased, the increase in industrial production on that basis was 9% in 2001. This all says why he speaks in 2000 compared to 2001 because September 11th 2001 is a tragic date in the history of humanity, there are no dilemmas, but it is a date that struck the foundations of the economic order in the world. That's why there have been such strong ones and some remember that this has already been said in Parliament that I was talking about what happened right after 9/11, when we presented our plan to Parliament, we were talking about it then, and that is that we know what's going on, that we know what's going to happen in the world and we're not doing this, believe me, we're doing anything by heart. September 11th, he hit the foundations of the world's economy. These days you can see signs that the world's economy is stabilising and slowly seems to be moving forward. We are this blow as we survived, as they say, after we explain how we may not even know all the answers to the questions about how we did this, but the fact is that these indicators are talking about it. I don't want to talk about pre-election matters, political matters, these economies... the study believes or doesn't say that we're going to win that, by saying that the difference is going to be a little bit bigger. But let's let it go now, politically, I think it's very important that I thank you once again for what you said, and I can say, Mr. brkati, it's perfectly natural for me to tell you something. It would be unfair for me to keep my mouth shut. You see, I don't want to talk about the past system, he was who he was, he went into history. You said the people of the last government were like us that they always showed things better than they were. Me and you don't think, probably, who has passed power, but past power has passed power, past power your power has shown things better than they have and that's not controversial. We don't want to show things better than they are. We want a little optimism to bring into these dreary lives of ours, in a situation where, however, there is a reason for a little optimism. Knowing where the world was going and where there was the possibility of BiH ending after 9/11. We stopped it. Thanks to this House's support, there's no need for all of you, so don't fight for common success now. It's a joint success, that we welcomed the way we welcomed her. I see it as your success. I'm surprised at you for running away from that success. It's common. If you hadn't supported us, we would have done it again, but we're glad you supported us when we were here talking about what we wanted to do after 9/11. We have stopped the free fall in which this country was, political, economic, legal and institutional. If you want to see what a nightmare looks like, you just think it happened that 9/11 happened a year earlier when you were in power. Bog, I don't know what would help us or how much he would help us, but I'm not sure. It's all luck in history there's no correctional Mr. Brka and it's lucky that on September 11th when it had to happen, it happened when this government was and not some other government and it's a great happiness for this country and for you, and I have to tell you what you said, it's your full right. You gave Mr. Avdić the right to think what he wanted. I'm telling you, as far as I'm concerned, you all have the right to say what you want, but there's one thing I have to tell you. One thing I have to tell you, Mr. brkati, is that the unproduced atheization that you mentioned here was, in fact, something that used to happen a long time ago. What you've shown is the other face of that same evil, which is an unspeakable atheisation, when, as president of the Human Rights Commission, you've called for a stenogram and that's something I'm surprised at you, and what you're most surprised at, and what you said today, you take a stenogram and you fence yourself from your own words. You're the departure of six people with a double-digit identity number and a multi-digit number of frauds in this country, you've identified with people they don't have. Your line that six of these people are ethnic cleansing is a shame in our historic contest. It's a shame, Mr. brkati. Six people who cheated on this country to identify them, say whatever you want. But I had to tell you 26. Otherwise I thank you again for everything you've said, and I, I really have to go and I'm going to be able to see what you said.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6199	Mr. brkati, you have the word, the replica. You have the first name you've called here. I'm not taking your word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6200	Mr. Lagumdžija, I'm asking you to just listen to two sentences. It's one, not BiH's fault for 9/11. It's not her fault that she should be leveled to the ground. Don't put us in that position as chairman of the Council of Ministers, that's one thing. Second, about atheization, don't twist the facts about how your colleagues in Circle 99 execute and put in my mouth what I never said. Here's what I'm going to do in front of Parliament. I'm behind that statement. I want the atheism as a top value and the criteria of all the values of this country gone. So I leave a choice to each man individually to be who he is. Not what they want, how they wanted 50 years. It is not a sin, and I will always fight for this attitude to make everything valuable in BiH that there is no one supreme as it was in one system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6201	Mr. Borić's replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6202	My intention was to ask Mr. Lagumdžija to be present at this ruckus. Once a year, the work of the Council of Ministers is carried out at first, and I think it should have been planned and attended here to simply share what we have done and what has been missed and in one, indeed, debate, especially as he has submitted the work programme. He exhibited himself here when he presented the program. I wish he was present. It would be easier for us to constructively indicate what it is that is not realized. Unfortunately, he said going to Greece is more important than being here with us to finish this job, which is what he's talking about. I, unfortunately, can only express my regret about it and I am truly sorry that it is not present and another thing I would say. I think we live in one freedom here in BiH and we MPs have the right to say what we think and I wouldn't hold that freedom of speech back. Also, the truth about certain events brings forth each one of us and let him answer for what he says, for that truth. I don't think the truth in this House should die. Let the truth live, and we must speak of the truth no matter how unpleasant she may be to someone, to me, to the other and to the third. So, I would ask Mr. Chairman not to make it impossible for the truth not to be spoken here and that everyone here speaks in full freedom.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6203	You can speak freely of your opinion, but I only warn of words that do not dispute peoples and citizens in BiH. Any MP in any club, any people belonged to the College is required to intervene. That's what the BiH citizens expect from us. You can say anything you want but with your chosen words. If there are no more replicas and I don't think so, Mr. Kulenović answered the word. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6204	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, dear guests, I will, therefore, be specific about the agenda, and this is the report on the work of the Council of Ministers. I'm sorry Mr. Lagumdžija isn't here, but this will certainly be noted, and I hope that my remarks on the report will help in the continued work of the Council of Ministers. So, I'm going to look back here on what I think should have been done, according to the Council of Ministers Act and it wasn't or was partially done. In the reporting period little has been done to create a favourable climate for the adoption of the proposal, i.e. the bill. This is best explained by the fact that during that period, the Parliamentary Assembly passed only 25 laws, while 31 laws are in different stages of the parliamentary procedure and 6 laws have been rejected. I believe that far more legislative projects would have been adopted, that there was more coordination between the resolution ministries and parliament. Legislative projects were often discussed, and some ministers or their deputies did not even attend when it was decided. It is also unacceptable that many laws were withdrawn from the procedure. Many misunderstandings and disagreements in the ruling Alijansa have also contributed to this condition. All of this resulted in an existing situation which is pictured in the presented indicators of this report. In the area of human first and refugees, a major brake in the work is the current legislative regulation, which does not authorise the ministry to be able to oblige the primary authorities in entities to handle cases from this burning area. That's true and said in the report, and I ask the question. What has the ministry, or the Council of Ministers, done about this and all in order to return more effectively and thus to protect the first human beings? There are a lot of data in the established database in the BiH refugee sector and displaced persons in BiH on the realised returns shown in absolute numbers and percentages. It would be good if that part of the report stated which areas in BiH were the most displaced and exiled and in which areas the process goes slowly or by no means and what causes it. This part of the report lacks data on possible co-operation with many governmental and non-governmental organisations dealing with humanitarian issues of return. Do you know exactly how much BiH has inherited the old debt and how much debt it has been in debt so far? Whether the Council of Ministers discussed how to make BiH the largest percentage of its own income and not just 30% as planned in the 2002 budget. These are key questions, which were among other things to be the subject of this report to me. Not to mention other issues that we have heard about today, certainly issues of economic nature, as far as privatisation is concerned, how much we and how business works and all segments of our social life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6205	Mr. Cuplow.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6206	Dear Presidency, honourable members of the Council of Ministers, MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all very much and I would like to give 28 views of the proposed report on the work of the Council of Ministers. I support the proposed report on behalf of the Members of the Party for BiH, and in my own name, and I believe that it is very high-quality, with a lot of details, with Mr Lagumdžija's oral address giving a dose of optimism at the moment in which we live which is overloaded by the poor economic situation, the political mile as it is, which is well shown and in the present session, and I would like to stress that, by reading the report in some parts that I am criticising the work of the Council of Ministers has been lost, because I have come from the finding that there have been restrictions in which the Council of Ministers has worked from constitutional restrictions to restrictions and the power not to say and the moment of taking over the roles they have here and the time period in which they have worked. I am proud to point out their work on the international plan. He was recognizably good. It seems to me for the benefit of all of us, and part of the work they've done on the home plan is well conditioned, I say to these problems that are evident. I see their work as a teamwork in which we have participated both MPs and co-operation with entity governments and other segments, segments of the international community that have been involved here in the entire political and economic life of BiH and the question if something is not good whose role was crucial in a bad solution. I must tell you that some of the laws here in the lab have been mentioned long in the procedure and haven't been adopted. The law on concessions for the sake of the case is a law that would allow a significant amount of foreign investment in BiH, it has not passed so far. Someone said only 25 laws were passed. I say 25 laws adopted in an alternative sense, not only, because in the previous period a very small number of legal solutions have been adopted. We have in the materials to make some legal proposals from 1999, which, they know, have been in the process for a long time. So it's not just that we passed 25 laws and it seems to me that it's a pretty good result of this House. Of course, it can be better. The State Service Act, which is here, also mentioned as a very important segment in the work of the Council of Ministers, which would allow for better quality work of the Council of Ministers, was also in the procedure and could be completed by now and we haven't. I want to say that I am personally impressed, to say the principle by which they tried to work, which is the rule of law, economic reform and strengthening institutions. In this context, if the complete team I mentioned earlier has a positive deviation, the work of the same council of ministers will be much easier, more efficient and better. The tax policy mentioned in the banking system, too, as important segments in everything, is well conditioned by the solutions offered by this parliament. Reforms in justice that are under way, as well as other discussions and the right to speak is one of the basic human and democratic rights and I absolutely do not slow anyone down, but I ask all of us to, however, keep the agenda, you know from the pure respect of the time in which we sit here. The overall work of this parliament is abundant across the agendas and there is not a single discussion that will not be able to fit into some agenda point. Let's stick to the point that's up, and that's the Council of Ministers' work plan, the work report.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6207	I would like to thank Mr. Cuplov's esteemed representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Marko Amidžić, and let the honourable representative, Mr. Mirko Baković, be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6208	Madam Chairman, fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, allow me to present first an impression and a previous question in this act. 29 First, my approach to this and at all these issues in parliamentary life is always in choosing a newly combined folk or classical music and I am most often in the positions of classicalism. Not because, is it just that I belong to it, but somehow I want to say that in the Croatian being, it's also to show him that classics are characteristic. I am obliged to further cultivate and develop it. Thus, so too will this discussion be marked. Secondly, under a (a) comment from one debate, self-government is the consequence of relations in the BiH presidency, and then further to that point, and I would not talk about it further. Under b) We Hrvat in BiH really love Bosnia, at least those here who work in this Parliament and Herzegovina, but believe us, we are irritated by those relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are irritated at least in that sense by provoking our steps and discussions that are then not fruitful, do not contribute to better work. I can honestly tell you that our ties to the Republic of Croatia are much bigger in heart than the ties of the Bošnjak with Alžir. Therefore, when you ask the question why is the Plot problem then to realize that this is the problem that the Plot Agreement has not ratified the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia to us neighbouring and friendly countries. He has the right not to ratify any agreement, just as we have the right not to ratify it. But when you put it as a problem, then don't expect me to feel guilty about it. Furthermore, from the impressions of none of my words here will be in office of the pre-election and finally what I will say, because of the first, first impression, it is more addressed to the candidate for the new chairman of the Council of Ministers than to this current one because I would like to help or in a certain way improve the work of the BiH institution and its responsibility towards Parliament. So my approach to this report is, that's how he has a fundamental dimension. My general position is that the Council of Ministers responds to Parliament. So he's filing a report, and we need to give a review of his work. If it is also positive, it must contain suggestions for a step forward. I have a positive relationship against this material. I think that's enough when I say it, but I want to make sure that he is, however, an accounting collection of the ministry's information that works in the Council of Ministers. Maybe that's his model. But I don't see enough functional links inside and I don't see enough relation towards BiH institutions and the chairman of the Council of Ministers said that this is a third large issue to be achieved. I do not see this horizontal commitment between the parliament and the Council of Ministers- the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And then let's see what there are open issues of dilemmas and potential brakes in one more quality functioning. That's why I want to try to look into this relationship in these remarks and suggestions. Relation means executive legislative authority. First grade. I believe that the Council of Ministers' communication towards Parliament has been continuous and correct. In particular, she contributed to those discussions at the 17th and 20th sessions of the House when we talked about Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy. However, it is very important to highlight these at least two three things. First, some forms of political hysteria that sometimes occur either in Parliament or elsewhere should not be drawn from the Council of Ministers, from those strategic commitments, above all about foreign policy. If we said neighbours, regional integration, European integration. This should always be called for political wisdom, a diplomatic step, or supervision and patience in building these relationships. Because, please, because we have neighbours, from a united Europe, that should be understood as imputences in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is what needs to be put in place, which is why algorithms and solutions in our frameworks. And the only criterion for the validity of that algorithm is how much it means through the principle of feedback. It brings Bosnia and Herzegovina back more strongly into the environment, i.e. faster integration into European integration. The second question is, we've been thinking about what's holding the law back for a long time. What's holding the law? We've established at several previous sessions that there aren't exactly these delays in the House of Representatives. You should tell it to the public. We don't feel here that we're braked by the law. We would like the Council of Ministers to make it clear. Where they're stuck. If it's up to me to be clearer, because if we don't have that defined, then we're going to go with confusion on an old method of work. I don't feel these brakes in the House of Representatives regardless of the complexity of the political structure etc. They were gone. Why is the same law falling because of some, come on at first we said formal questions at another home. Should the issue be raised in Bosnia and Herzegovina about whether the homes of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly should be a reflection of each other. I am not questioning the constitutional provision on the mandatory consent of both homes in the adoption of the law, but I am talking about leading the overall policy of Parliament and parliamentary life. I'm talking about procedure. It has to be the same procedure. If it has to be, it's kind of defined. That's what I see about the reasons, one of the reasons for the slowness in law-making that should be removed if possible and how. I don't have a solution. The other problem is, or I define it as a question – whether the future Council of Ministers can not work with a minimum of time at the limit of time when it comes to law-making. The Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. What is the cause of the delay in the proposal, and then, because of the teat, this article is reached and then we are in a position of madness or inability to listen to parliamentary initiatives, proposals, etc. So I suggest that time try to plan within the framework of the Council of Ministers' work dynamics. And third when it comes to this area. This is – whether the Council of Ministers can build a more responsible relationship of its position, its more responsible position as legislator of law in terms of law monitoring through a full parliamentary procedure. And we don't send him to the Constitutional-Law Committee or any other commissions and still don't follow him in the parliamentary procedure. We do not follow him in terms of expert defence of interpretation and presence at Parliament's session. We have been in a position for Parliament to declare the law that there is no proposer or we do not know who he is who follows the law. I think these are crucial questions on my relationship with Dom. Therefore, I will no longer bother you with this, but I believe that if the chairman of the Council of Ministers suggests that we discuss the institutions, then that this can find its place in your thinking and in your activities. And I'm not asking about the House now spreading its statements and wasting time on it, but I think it would improve the mutual relations between the relationship, openness and responsibility of the Council of Ministers for Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6209	Thank you, Mr. Amidžić. Mr. Baković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6210	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I'll try to be brief, because I can see it's two o'clock already. But I have a few things to say. It seems to me that as soon as we relax some of our own will, there is a fight, which means that there are things in us, some passions, and that we haven't become legally susceptible and, of course, we'll never be able to do this job right now. It seems to me that it would have to be created between us and the party and national and human relationship in a positive way. This team that's in power now, the Alliance team, I think we should give it the opportunity to be comfortable, casual, intelligent and constructive in doing its job, and the balance sheet will eventually be seen and the elections will also show how things are. But you'd say the next thing you know. My observation of Bosnia and Herzegovina on these impressions comes next. I can see that more and more states are being built, and repressive appliances are being articulated. It's a police apparatus and a judicial apparatus in our country. If that's all it is, and if it's forced and everything else to be neglected, I don't think it's gonna be a good thing. In contrast, it seems to me that these areas should take care of the development of the school system, the social system, the humanitarian system, etc. Only then will things be good. In particular, I would like to refer this to representatives of the international community who have ignored this side of the problem, and in places, that is, we have more and more social cases on the ground, we have even emigration of the people, we have a demonstration on the street, etc. Next, the victims of the war. In my opinion, the victim of war should be solved, but not solved ad hoc in a segregated sense and not solved from day to day, but solved in a systematic sense by building an economy, social life, etc. It's the only way to solve it successfully. This way we'll put out one fire. We'll put out the fire for example. Bosniak Shehids, but there will be fire here with Croatian knights, or there the hero will burn, etc. And we have to try to solve both the other and the third problems. So economics must develop, funds must be invested. In my opinion, the Council of Ministers, and I am also sorry that Mr Lagumdžija is not here, perhaps to direct him to care more about creating healthy production, about developing an economy, about investing money in the productive sense that comes from abroad. This is how we're gonna stand, what we get is what we're gonna eat today, and the next day we're not gonna have any. And that's the problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Anything else, I think we as parties have figured out a multiparty system, that we fit in, and that's good. I don't think there's gonna be any problems, but this has to be solved, and I'm actually supportive of this report, and I think it's a good thing, but we're supposed to do some things, so we're just not repeating ourselves, and we're not eating our own substance from day to day to day to day to solve the same problem. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6211	Thank you. Mr. Adem Borić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6212	Mr. President, here's no Council of Ministers. I don't know who to talk to. I've expressed a real regret that there is no chairman. Here's what's said. He's going on a trip. I had some understanding, and that's why, but now there's no Council of Ministers, actually, who we're talking to. Is this a debate about their work or do we need here to discuss voting and to adopt that report? I really don't know how we do it or what we do, where we go. I made an effort to politely, so quite rightly point out what the Council of Ministers promised to do and what didn't work. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6213	Mr. Borić, can I have an intervention? I don't want to interrupt. The fact is that no one but the Ministers' Council of Ministers is present. In consultation with my colleague, Ljubić, I agreed to a break of up to three for lunch. At three we begin and wait for ministers from the Council of Ministers to be present. About what, Mr. Banjac? You have another suggestion. Here you go. Excuse me, Mr. Borić speaking. I can't. I wanted to, Mr. Borić expressed his desire to speak to the ministers, which is why I intervened.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6214	I'm just, if possible, if not, then let's finish this farce. To vote, obviously in the Alliance there is a consensus to vote this work no matter what the results were and I don't see the need to speak at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6215	Mr. Borić, it's up to you. If you want, you can.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6216	I'll keep the need if the Council of Ministers comes.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6217	All right. Here you go, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6218	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, I, of course, know your position and know that you were brought before the final act. But precisely because you have been brought before the final act and precisely because you have no choice but to propose what you have suggested, I suggest that this Parliament condemn, concluded that it condemns the behaviour of the Council of Ministers in relation to the report, conduct during the debate on their work report. Before he condemns it, otherwise I object to the pause, because otherwise we give them the right to treat us as MPs however they please. And they chose this humiliating attitude. That humiliating attitude is like this. I'm asking you to record these cameras. You see, this is what it looks like to sit where ministers sit during the debate on the Council of Ministers' report. That's what it looks like. So, Mr. Chairman, I want you to vote on my proposal. To condemn behavior, meaning my proposal is to condemn the Council of Ministers' behaviour in relation to Parliament during the debate on the report on the work of the Council of Ministers. That's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6219	Thank you, Mr. Banjac. I ask the MPs to make a statement about Mr. Banjac's proposal, so we have a break. Who's up for Mr. Banjac's proposal? - hvala moliti. Which one of the MPs is against? 33 Please, Mr. Banjac, let us hold the vote, but do not comment aloud, please. Here you go. I'm asking the service to count the votes. Who is abstention from the messengers present? I'm asking the service to determine if we have a quorum? - Thank you so the MPs have a quorum and that's good. Do we have most of them? Did he pass or didn't pass? I'd like an entity vote. Who's from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina for? Please don't hang up until it's counted. Were you able to count it? Thank you. Who's from Republika Srpska for? Please report. Twenty-six MPs present. So criticism can go to our expense. We're somewhere on the edge of the quorum, but there's us. We're here. In 18, v. 7. 25 MPs didn't vote. By entities for 11 from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, for Republika Srpska 7.. I konstatuj it reprimanded, let me choose the words, that the reproof, the judgment, all right, that judgment is as Mr. Banjac would say. That's right, Mr. Banjac. Everything's got thank you very much, that he's got that proposal for a necessary majority. Gentlemen, the MPs will be here by 3:00 to rest from the trial. Thank you very much. [[/ break up to 15 o'clock.]] Let us interrupt the debate on the second item of the agenda Report on the work of the Council of Ministers in the previous year because they did not provide adequate presence of members of the Council of Ministers. I suggest we get back to work. According to the list of registered participants in the debate behind Mr. Baković, who finished, Mr. Borić, I apologize. Please, there are more candidates for MPs who want to take part in the debate. We stopped at the moment when Mr. Borić Adem came out and said he wanted to speak before members of the Council of Ministers. Sir, I'll Borić you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6220	I'm sorry I asked you to stop. It would be the right thing if I asked to interrupt the debate at all to wait for the President of the Council of Ministers, then that would be the right answer, but here we can't always ask for the impossible. That's why I'm gonna shorten my debate on the Council of Ministers' work report. 34 We at the MPs' Club yesterday after reading and detailed work on the programme, reports on the work of the Council of Ministers for the past year really did, and wanted to point out certain problems, as well as the forwarding address of Mr Lagumdžija here today would only like to say a few sentences in front of the SDA Parliament Club. So Mr. Lagumdžija I've determined that quality is not always and quantity is not a quality and we would agree with that. And we noticed there's a lot of rhetoric. There's a lot of things written and not to say and there's something else in life on the ground when it comes to making decisions, conclusions, laws, or this home. Mr Lagumdžija also specifically said that the assumption of a better future in Bosnia and Herzegovina is that we have a rule of law. That we have the strengthening of institutions and economic reform in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So he found that we are at the very beginning of these processes, and since these are the processes, since these are the aspirations are certain that it can then be concluded that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the SDA, this club of MPs, has concluded that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, when it comes to the rule of law, that is, respect for human rights in full capacity, as is the European Convention on respect for human rights entered into the Constitution, and the Convention on European and Human Rights is, in fact, the supremation of international law, or domestic law. We therefore have in the field no respect or no enjoyment of human rights from all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in that capacity as it was in the opening speech a year ago by the Council of Ministers here was a performance, i.e. as it was said to be a shift. So we argue that the shift in respect of human rights across Bosnia and Herzegovina is not and we are not satisfied and we want to draw attention to the flagrant violation of human rights daily. We further argue and are not satisfied with the SDA's Club of MPs with the return of people to their homes, houses, etc. So we don't think there's that shift that was programmed and that was expected. I've been on, in part of the Bosnian province these days, with these people who have returned who are really hungry, thirsty, have no rights and complained about their position. So they exist without any subjectivity. That's what they asked me to tell you anyway. So from Prijedor, Novi, Banja Luka, Gradiška etc. No Niko's working. People don't work. So it's a familiar thing and then we have to ask that question. Say, you should help those people back there. Also, there is no stopping the return of young people. It is clearly and loudly written here that the trend of young people will be stopped that there will be fewer young people in front of the embassies to go abroad. We have information that and we see it all together, that this trend of going out young people isn't stopped, and I have to say it here, not to say it here now, maybe it wasn't even possible in Tomo bimo, but we have to not run away from that fact. So the trend of leaving young people is not stopped. The issue of economic strengthening our man. I would say that our man has economically impoverished the question, therefore, of the fundamental needs of food, water and air in BiH and of economic strengthening, indeed, there is no speech and there is no agreement with the Ministerial Council's report. Of course, since Mr Lagumdžija said all of this would have to be a rule of law in BiH, strengthening the institutions of this economic reform, it is expected that this will happen in the coming period, but it is a process, but we wanted to stress it here in particular. Also, there were talks that foreign capital would come to BiH and that investments would be boosted. I am responsibly saying, in fact, our club found that foreign capital had not entered BiH, that no 35 investment had been launched that there was no employment, and why, of course, we can express disdain for this report, or say in that domain no shift was made, and a year ago there was talk here that foreign capital, that the Alliance for Change with the SDP would introduce foreign capital and that it would launch investments. So it doesn't stand etc. The pensioner's economic situation is not particularly improved. We know where the funds come from, so I don't trouble you. There's so much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6221	Thank you, Mr. Borić. Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6222	Dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests from the Council of Ministers, here I want to say briefly, as short as possible and more summed up about the Council of Ministers' programme. I think that, in terms of legislative activity, it is quite clear that the Council of Ministers sought to work this part of the work with a desire to be quality and with a desire to be beneficial to all of us. What in that part, I, therefore, speak in principle about areas of work and later I will do something about concrete problems. When this question is current, I want to say this. I don't think the Council of Ministers has yet taken the necessary place and the role that it really belongs to and I would like that role to be next. To establish itself as a permanent form of co-operation and meetings of the Council of Ministers and entity governments through their working bodies of ministries covering a particular area and to make the legislative projects proposed by this parliament agree first. Thus, gentlemen, we would be shortened by the time of wild stories and wild speculation and thus show something else if we really had a complete system of government in BiH, in terms of coverage and in terms of the real connection and the real and institutional sarge in the whole area. Unfortunately, so far it should have been for more than one reason. We're still wasting a lot of important time here that could spend both energy and time in a much more rational way, and we're spending it whether something is or isn't from the ingenuity of institutions or it belongs to entities. If you took advantage of meetings that should become practice and not extreme cases, as so far you would have agreed there on such a solution so that you would use that Article 3a 5a) or some other, depending on the jurisdiction to which it belongs, so here at the commission stage you would do nothing but first cosmetic repairs and additions of such well-prepared acts. I am saying this for the reason that the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which I led with my colleagues, has had objections to the quality of the legal projects that are coming to Parliament. Because of their underdevelopedness, poor legal processing and sometimes poor language processing. So I ask you to move in that direction, because then we will have far more space for the quality of this Parliament's work and surely the laws would be faster and better passed. So, legal obstacles to what I propose do not have and simply the report does not highlight itself and I would like to highlight the need for and co-operation between the Council of Ministers and entity governments and as a permanent form and practice that needs to be established and become a way, a model of work and executive institutions of government in BiH. I, I noticed that there's an optimistic version of that team here, don't get me wrong, not breaking monotony, but simply making a little illusion. You know the story of anti-corruption activities so he says senses and forest animals so the fox runs because of the fur, runs the bear because of the pumpkin and the monkey runs. He says why this third one where you run the poor one, at least you've got nothing on your butt. So he says, "That's how they got hurt." Please, gentlemen, for being affected by bad legal projects, right, people and right, I apologize for having this chaired by this 36 just for the sake of comparison, so I think that these legal projects gentlemen should be brought in a different way in favour of the people and helped in this way. Second, what do you have on this? I meant the replica. What I did not see in the ministry's report, and what I would truly like to see, and it would be good for the clarity of BiH to see how much donation it is, but completely accurate and parallelly shown in the same place came to BiH and how much funding in terms of living money came out of BiH. Let's see if we have that positive or negative balance. What I could have imagined, but of course I'm allowing earlier reports and this report and what I'm looking at in our famous agreements that we often ratify here, so of course, that I haven't been able to sum everything up, and that's why I'm allowing this to be a mistake. It seems to me, gentlemen, that we have a negative balance on this matter. But there's one more thing I have to tell you, reading analysis from other countries of the world, and especially from Latin America where similar processes have been happening like here, never happened to be a positive balance. God Bog BiH is in that positive balance, but I ask you to make it public from the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of the Treasury, because it would simply be good for the people to know whether it is or not, whether help is real help or help, above all, to help themselves first. That's what I'd like to say. When it comes to the report, there's something concrete about it. Believe this first part, which is called an introduction, save this, and this will be good for those who come after you, because this may be the same for those who came before and for those who came after you, because it may be the same for those who came before and for you. So don't throw it away, because I think when I read this, it's just an illustration that works, so this doesn't turn out to be a good idea. He says, the Council of Ministers, at the BiH Presidency's initiative, has engaged significantly in establishing and providing basic working conditions, now essential. It's a dictionary, a terminology that can satisfy what went away 20 years ago and those who will come after twenty and many others. I would also like to ask that we here be made absolutely clear that what you have done in economic prosperity. I'm just listening here next. Strategies and just to find those words of yours that you use "analysis", "projects", "prognosis" and "strategies". I can't find anything beyond that keyhole that might be tangible and what the people have felt about improving the standard of life since you gentlemen have been doing. You don't want to see it or I don't see it well. I'm allowed to do this, too, but it seems to me when I don't see it right, then I use the helper. There's something else. In these reports of yours, especially the Department of Human Rights and Refugees, I don't see anywhere, I'm seeing any suspicious results. I don't see what directly the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons has done specifically as the BiH ministry, working with two entity ministries or on its own, to improve the quality of rights, if it can't realise the rights of refugees and displaced people. Simply, you have found yourself in the role of a statistical institution that collects or how better to say in this second language in Croatian, and I know that language. So I'd like to see directly what you've done. There's so much trouble and you haven't made it very clear. You list how many solutions are given, but how many solutions have been made, gentlemen. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, How many people have taken possession of their property in a particular area? Secondly, when it comes to the protection of human rights first, it says here that about 1800 objects and you realize that you have only received 10% of the answers, when it comes to protecting human rights, as the collectiveity of individuals or others. If your score on such a job is 10% I didn't write it, I read it, but gentlemen, it's so little, it's so negligible, and a huge number of regrets and ultimately it turns out that whoever suggested the existence of such a ministry was the first, and we're not going to tell who it is, because a lot of people are talking to that ministry, but they're also taking a lot of turns for the good of that ministry. However, there are no results. 37 When it comes to this eye again, so there were 1805 submissions and 10% solved. When it comes to gentlemen around strangers. He says, in the administrative procedure... in this ministry during 2001, out of 175 requests for the removal of visas for staying foreigners, a total of 132 solutions have been made for the distance of foreigners from BiH. And when you see it come in and out, the difference is, too, in your table over 8,000 is the difference where you don't know where they are. You only solved 132 problems during that period. I'm eight thousand, which you've made quite clear in the table. In his activity, the Ministry of Treasury counts for a real miracle and executive conversion of gold into dollar values through sales. Gentlemen, as you have the right to what, don't tell me wrong I'm not a lawyer again, but what makes a crime, because you are without a legal solution, without a law that has been in the process of selling and talking, I don't know after you've sold it, or how much it really would be worth today in gold, but there are indications that the difference over 11 million marks is due to the poorly achieved price and you've still done it without a legal act, without the right to do so, without the approval of this Parliament. I can't tell you anything else, except gentlemen, you've made a huge failure in the sense of breaking your jurisdiction, because I can't tell you that the law didn't even exist, so to say that you broke the law and I think this is the only reason why you should vote against this report, and after that, when you vote against you gentlemen, you'd have to resign so that we can remove the guilty person's immunity and hand him over to the court authorities, let the court tell him whether it's charity or something else. But if you gentlemen do things differently here today, what makes you think we should call someone else who did the same illegal shop in this country the same way or the same way that this gold thing was done. Furthermore, in the field of European integration, I expected something to be written, because of course BiH is quite a space, so I don't need to know everything, that foreign investment has already been made somewhere, that there is a result of this ministry's work in terms of capital invested from outside to this country, and there is still talk about an analysis strategy, simply gentlemen, not from strategies nor from analysis lives this people. I beg you again, don't get me wrong, I beg you, I don't want to be sarcastic, I don't want to speak in a way that I use humor, but it seems to me that this model of a gypsy donkey is just saying so long as it's learned to vote it. I think there's one, we're sick of analysis and strategy. I didn't expect you to get a thin report. There's a lot of you out there. There are more employees in one ministry than in the entire Parliamentary Assembly, so I expected such a thick report, but the report essentially does not bear weight in terms of what has led to the shift in the quality of life of BiH residents. Given that it does not bear that weight, I cannot as a man give support to this report, not believing that there was, at the beginning of what I said and how the desire to achieve something in legislation, but gentlemen, there must be a link between the law as a basis and the results of that law in application as a final goal. There is no such thing in that previous ministry that I would not say that I am not only criticising you in the previous period or in the present period, except for one serious wish that you have, I would not be able to speak and, naturally, these legal projects that I welcome in the part in which the agreements have really been reached in this House, whether I am or did not vote for it, but in any case I welcome progress in that sense. You take what I said as a good intention and as a desire to help with this brief exposure further, please do not take anything different and wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6223	Thank you. Mr. Mariofil Ljubić 38
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6224	Dear President, Your Honor, I won't be long to talk about this report, that's what it was. I expected in this section as far as the refugee ministry is concerned, I did not get an answer as to why the Council of Ministers has not yet offered a law amending the Law on Refugees and displaced persons in BiH. I read in this report that the law was and did not pass. So he didn't pass because he wasn't good, he wasn't complete. I expected the report to explain why the law didn't pass. I'm asking the question. What the Council of Ministers did to secure a fund to encourage refugee returns. You know that this law did not go away for a reason because the MPs adopted an amendment allowing refugees to return to provide them with a consumer basket of basic products within six months, because we are talking about returning, there is no going back if we do not provide the people with the necessary means to live. I therefore believe that now that we have a new Council of Ministers and certainly a new work plan, or it will be prescribed since the start of the mandate, it will simply be said whether there are funds, as the Council of Ministers means to encourage refugee returns. I would be willing to vote for such a Council of Ministers. I know it's hard to expect some major reforms here, but we can expect something that is essential, which is important if we talk about going back. Especially what I do not accept in the report, and I would really like all of us MPs to perhaps fence ourselves with one or another conclusion or in some other way, it is no longer acceptable for me to listen to the term so-called. minority vomit. I think at a time when we talk about the consistency of all the peoples across BiH and everything else, if we declare the returnees as minority returns, I think it offends the dignity of the people. I think what's the least, the least we can do, we can take the term back. I think every message minority returns, so you know, if we translate that term, they're minority. No Niko has explained what that term means anywhere, but I think he insults all the returnees. Also, I expected that here, it would be said what happened to the economic policy measures, mentioned at the beginning of the term of office not of this chairman-in-Office Council, but of the previous one. There were some economic policy measures, but I don't see anything further going on. I expect in the coming time, from the new Council of Ministers, that he will expose the measures of the Council of Ministers' Economic Policy as well as one more detailed reform of the tax system, because what we have now is insufficient, insufficient, because simply, no matter how much entities try to harmonize those tax rates and everything else, there is always enough space left for those skilled mechanics from one and another entity, who simply know how to avoid those entity boundaries that we don't always know how to avoid. That's it. I really wish that in these reports, we do not use this term "minor vomiting".
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6225	Thank you. Mr. Stanimirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6226	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Council of Ministers, also welcome, I will also try to speak relatively briefly about this today, because I think a lot has already been said, but I will look back at a few details that I think are important when we talk about the report on the work of the Council of Ministers. 39 First, I believe that no doubt significant progress has been made, i.e. a step in the work of the Council of Ministers in relation to what we had in the previous period, and I think that this report that we have received today and the discussion itself confirms it in the best way. Someone mentioned that 26 laws were passed. You'd say a little and a lot. A little bit compared to what our obligations are coming to us in this year and probably over the next few years in accession to European integration, creating the ambience that we have talked so much about normal regulation and one more normal life of our citizens, but on the other hand, a lot when it's known what the previous five looked like not to say for ten years. Furthermore, I think that the work of the Council of Ministers could at all be discussed as a necessary prerequisite, which, unfortunately, I do not think was the case until the date of the meeting of the Council of Ministers. I think this council of ministers has finally shown the quality of teamwork for the first time. Finally, this type of obstruction and blockade, based on national or political parties, has ceased, and I think that the people who are leading the Council of Ministers today have shown great political maturity in terms of finding the best solutions, which in our case means compromise solutions that are being reached by consensus. I think, too, that this is a great result and this is the great result of our congregation here that we sit in and that's one of the reasons why it's adopted, so not a lot, but 26 laws. Furthermore, the next thing I'd like to say is, and that's one of my basic remarks that made me answer today for the discussion. It concerns part of the BiH Ministry of European Integration report. It, of course, does not apply to the Ministry because the Ministry has realistically presented the situation, but it refers to the current state and that is in the final part, so this is the last part of the report by the Ministry of European Integration, it is talking about BiH's accession to the Partnership for Peace, or more specifically about making a document called "Safe and Security Policy of BiH" so that we all understand. So here it is also found that the Ministry of European Integration is, the holder of the job on the creation of the "Safety Policy of BiH", but that the ministrstvo has problems with other ministries from the Council of Ministers and entity governments in the formation of working groups and the Stability Pact. Or an untimely response to our demands. Maybe that's a good, good example to show, first of all, what I was just talking about. So it is absolutely unsuspecting that this council of ministers is doing this council of ministers far better than this one. It is absolutely undeniable that co-operation between BiH institutions and the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers and the Presidency and entity governments is much better than before. But it is clear that at a time when we are entering an entirely new stage of political life in BiH. It's just not enough. This is a great example, here today is our BiH Presidency in Brussels, discussing with the people of the NATO Pact, but, as you all know, we are not even close to meeting the pre-accession obligations to join the Partnership for Peace, as one of the most important elements of Euro-Atlantic integration, and I think it is also the responsibility not only of this ministry, not only of the Council of Ministers, not only of this Parliamentary Assembly, entity bodies, but it is the responsibility of all BiH institutions, but it is a responsibility, I want to say to our home, which will tomorrow discuss this security policy document BiH and I hope to return to the establishment of a new commission in the BiH Assembly, which would deal with security policy. That's how much I appreciate it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6227	Thank you very much. Mr. Željko Bilbija. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6228	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, and present guests, I must first say an old Latin saying surrounding the era of human beings. When we harshly translate it, it's said that human beings are wrong and our people translate it into those who do it and sin, so the worst thing is not to do it. I will say a few words about the failures that we have had in co-operation with the Council of Ministers in the past period, to point out certain mistakes that could be made in one way and betterned in the next period. Here, I have asked three parliamentary questions during my term, of which I have received an answer to only one thing and I really am not satisfied with it. Maybe it's one of my questions and there's no answer, but it's fair to say there's no answer, but that I get that answer. In the past, or reporting period, I believe that there has been a lack of good content between the Council of Ministers and the Representatives of the House on Legislative Projects. In the next period, we must build a flexible system for the European Union. We need to achieve much more co-operation and understanding. I'll tell you exactly what it is. Once again, draw attention to the proposed text of the EU Customs Tariff Code proposal, does not include enough changes in the concentration in the harmonised system and combined European Union nomenclature, and this becomes an obligation to bring BiH Customs Tariff Law into line with these two acts, a prerequisite for negotiating accession to the VTO and other economic associations. We are late with a certain part of the law, but we must also deal with the Council of Ministers and Parliament in a way that has not been done. In the past, representatives of the Council of Ministers, this has happened today, I don't know, probably people have legitimate reasons, but rarely attend meetings, and on committees even more rarely, a more ugly situation when a representative from the Council of Ministers comes to the session of the Constitutional-First Commission and when members of the Constitutional and Legal Commissions ask him to explain to them certain laws or certain provisions, said I am that and all but I can't explain it. I would ask that in the next period, whoever comes to the session be prepared and competent to do so, and not speak these criticisms at all on purpose, but I am saying in the context of finishing this part of the legislative projects that are our condition for joining the European Union, the VTO and the rest, which will bring at least a significant part of BiH's prosperity, because we cannot decide here for a year or a half to be or for two months that there is suddenly a prosperity tomorrow, but we must blush continuously and continuously and work on that for a certain period of time to give us better results. I also point out that the Council of Ministers must be a partner and a representative home in seeking a solution for all peoples and for both entities in BiH, as only in this way BiH can have a brighter future and a more sustainable economic solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6229	Thank you. Mr. Buturović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6230	Dear Mr. President, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, delegates, I'll be short as well. I'll take a look into the future. I'll be a little pragmatic. We heard the report today. The report is what it is. He was discussed by the predecessors. I would like to make a few suggestions in the sense that this council of ministers, this parliament, will be as effective as possible. I imagine the Council of Ministers as one government. Government with certain ministries. It is certain that under the current Council of Ministers Act, it is not an accident. I'll zalagati, it may be my and 41 proposal to pass a new law at this parliament on the Council of Ministers that it grows into a single real government with the right ministries that will have redefine its functions and competencies. I imagine this government as a single apolitical government, a government where experts will be found, people who will be committed to economic reforms, means people who will make life sustainable for this country and that everything that happens, the departure of young people, etc. to prevent it. In my opinion, there is a need to recruit capable people in the government, regardless of the party, the stationery and political commitment. What we expect from citizens, i.e. the peoples, is that the government as legislative and executive as much as possible is polarizing and the more it makes arrangements, the more it works together, to achieve significantly better results, after all, we don't have to love each other very much, but we have to live together and survive in these areas. I also expect my thinking and thinking that this government should be more often, than now the Council of Ministers to go before this Parliament, more often hears the opinion of this Parliament, because ultimately we all answer to the citizens who elected us. So the public and the transparency of work must be fully represented. Since I'm looking a little bit to be more than just a story, a little bit in the future, I'm going to touch the human rights area a little bit. I ask myself sometimes whether this organized state of Dejton can truly guarantee human rights, so I'm often in a dilemma. In that sense, at a number of meetings I have spoken, the only bearer of sovereignty and guarantees of human rights can be a state. In this direction, I have launched a resolution, which will very soon come before this house on health policy, because by nature I am a health worker and a segment of health, health care and social policy one of the essential elements of human first, meaning a resolution on health policy for all citizens of BiH. I hope that it will be very soon available to you, which also provides for the establishment of a new ministry within the Council of Ministers, which is the Ministry of Health and Social Policy. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6231	Thank you, Mr. Buturović. We have three candidates, three MPs, Mirjanić, Grabovac and Lolić reported for discussion. I give my word to myself. I'll, please, take Mr. Ljubić's word, I'll try to expose it as soon as possible. Some questions, which have shown that not everything is so ideal and that there are certain problems. First of all, it is a matter of relations between the Council of Ministers and the House of Representatives. The fact that a large number of laws have been proposed and that a large number of laws have been passed, as well as the fact that there is an impression in the public that this is due to the Council of Ministers more than this home. It is the merit of this home far more than the Council of Ministers. What was the problem was, was the adoption, i.e. the passing of laws under the urgent and shortened procedure under Articles 105 and 104, often unnecessary and harmful to the democratic functioning of this institution. The fact that OHR did not impose any law in this House of Representatives' assembly is, I repeat, the result of our work, the atmosphere, the tolerance and the democratic atmosphere that we all created together in this home. Of course, the Council of Ministers also helped us by proposing laws, often high quality. What's still a question that hasn't been said enough is the question of anti-terrorism. What's the problem? It is not a problem with the operating measures of BiH institutions. They are effective, but the problem is that MPs are not sufficiently informed about the implementation of the plan of BiH institutions and entities' activities in preventing terrorist activities and actions. So this home has to be informed about it. We need to see BiH institutions carry out what we have concluded. So I'm not talking about operational measures, I'm talking about politics and there's no doubt that this institution has firmly defined BiH as part of the anti-terrorism bloc. It is our position, but we must be informed as MPs to see how our views and our decisions are being implemented. 42 In order to be clear, I do not question the measures taken by the Council of Ministers and other institutions in the BIH and we have an understanding of these measures. The question that bothers us all is the question of turning gold into money. Whether BiH lost or won. We're looking for an exact answer. If there's been a mistake and an oversight, that's what to say. Anyone can make a mistake. But it has to be said that or no mistake has been made, to support the fact that it has already stopped talking in public about it and to accuse the Council of Ministers that it has not made the right or the right decision. What encourages is the co-operation reached between the Council of Ministers and the entity governments, and it is rightly indicated as a major result. For the simple reason that the laws that came before this house, previously written, were previously proposed by the Council of Ministers, but were repeatedly called for co-operation with entity governments and for the consent of entity governments to pass those laws. First of all, when it wasn't there, then the talks went on to say, and as a result, this is how many laws were passed. What this report does not have or does not have enough speech on, is, the basic question to answer and I must say that I agree with those MPs who previously criticised the report in that part, which was, should have indicated what was done to improve the standard of living in this country. The basic question is whether BiH citizens in both entities in all cantons live better in all municipalities today than they lived before the establishment of government according to the October elections. The result is clear. The next thing that should have been introduced into this programme, which requires more co-operation from the Council of Ministers and entity governments is the implementation of reforms. BiH is late. With us, the reform is slow. The results are unfavourable in all of BiH. It's not just the Council of Ministers' fault. Other institutions are also guilty, and as a consequence, we have gentlemen of economic immigration from BiH. We are talking about how to get people back to their homes in their apartments, how to get BiH citizens who are abroad back to BiH, and I forget that the fact is that very few people from abroad will return to BiH and that it is the fact that a large number of members of the younger generation from BiH are going to the developed country for purely economic reasons. It's not the minister's advice. Those problems and causes were before him. It is a process that has been burdening this country intensively since 1965, when they went to the first unsoldier west, as temporary and today their children and their grandchildren are there and, of course, it is a question of who will return to a poor country. In short, it was necessary to provide more projections for the future and to suggest that for the political programme to be presented by the appointed, newly appointed chairman of the Council of Ministers, more elements, data, visions, visions, and however you want to improve life, our life that our standard and to prevent our younger generation, young people from going out of this country and their perspective in other countries. Thank you for your attention. Mr. Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6232	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the staff, the chairman skillfully performed this to prevent the opposition from being the last, then let the position go last again, but it's good. I'd like to make one remark. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6233	I didn't deny anyone the word sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6234	No, no, I'm kidding.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6235	I know you're kidding, and I'm kidding.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6236	I would make one observation when it comes to presence, and here we see now a part of the Council of Ministers has come because in truth they should be present, at least at a time when their report is being discussed and that is one of the remarks that, I think, should be in place. However, when it comes to this report, I will try to sum up several aspects that are important, which is from economic respect for human rights and the security aspect. Through this part I'll try to put it as short as possible, and you'll figure out what the point is. Of course, the Council of Ministers has its own strategy, a framework strategy for economic development, which also brought and adopted from 2002 to 2004. I think that the strategy that has been brought here so far, the Framework Strategy for Economic Development of BiH, shows in some way that it is not set in the way it should, or how and how BiH should develop more rapidly. The fact is that there is a gap, which concerns the economic part and otherwise bilateral relations between the Council of Ministers and other countries when it comes to the old foreign exchange savings, i.e. the old savings that were in the Ljubljanska Banka, which, in truth, a lot of BiH citizens are struggling rather than being achieved, i.e. nothing was only found to be discussed but there is no movement. Also, it's a very important thing, the old stove was on banks inside BiH. We can't see here either, in which way the Council of Ministers and the total BiH and its entities, how and how they will solve that old savings where people first are initially violated, because it's property of people who have been saving, and the fact is that it's declared by the Constitutional Court public debt. So that aspect we don't see at all how and how to solve it. Secondly, one very interesting thing is, given that the international community is involved, in the case of the Herzegovina Bank. It is very important that these people, or people who were employed in that bank, and they are not those who are responsible or still no one's responsibility will be proven. What is it about their jobs, that is, what is being done in this field, that these people, that these people are being guaranteed the basic human right to work. I believe that the Council of Ministers is in that part and how it should work, since I say that the international community, or OHR, was involved, and it was certainly necessary to see how with these people and whether they would return to and whether the bank would come back and come back to life, how they would work and where their jobs were, given that they are literally on the street now. When it comes to the security aspect, it certainly cannot be seen from this, at least I couldn't read, which so far took steps, i.e. taking steps, so that I could come and join as quickly as possible and be within the Partnership for Peace and thus, of course, allow for one longer, after a long time to join NATO, but I would allow the Partnership for Peace, if nothing else for foreign investors to enter BiH, because in some ways it is a small door for foreign investors to come and then enter the European Union and VTO. The fact is, you can't see from this, either, as well as how to adapt BiH's economy to the accession of the VTO and the European Union. So, you can't see and you don't see what the measures are to be taken 44 to adapt BiH's economy and not to be swallowed suddenly by countries that are already far away. Another part that is important in terms of security, which is also the fight against terrorism or anti-terrorist teams created to defend, means to eliminate those groups of terrorists for whom BiH is also involved throughout the world. Certainly not just what has been prevented so far, and what has been discovered that is related to terrorism, and I will set an example which is both important and familiar here, and that is a terrorist act that was carried out over the late Prime Minister Leutar, and the fact that a part of the people under suspicion is closed. But also the fact that there is no evidence for these people and these people are lying in prison, and not doing anything more or knowing that the same assistance for these disclosures is also involved and certainly the Council of Ministers should press that part to reveal the truth and open the culprits and those who are involved in this terrorism and how and how such and similar cases will in future prevent them. It doesn't matter who the people come from. He is a terrorist regardless of who he belonged to and whose people and certainly BiH is in the interest of all its peoples to prevent such and similar things. I therefore believe that the Council of Ministers would also have to take such steps. I think that at BiH level, when it comes to this security aspect and how things are missing that are very important for this part, because they do not have parliamentary oversight in any way. Given that we do not have a committee, which regulates that part of the matter, I suggest, in truth, how much Parliament can, I think, find a space, that Parliament can determine temporarily if nothing other than one group of people or one committee, who in truth would try to analyse all the discoveries of terrorist acts and measures that have been taken so far, when it comes to this part of terrorism, and that allows us, too, the documents that we have adopted here and about the fight against terrorism, and each of them would be interesting and this case of Leutar to try to carry out a parliamentary view of this case, which is what it really is, whether this process is going to be in the first place, because if we do not have parliamentary surveillance enough, then it is the fact that we cannot rule the situation in the country and that the situation cannot have economic development of the country and it is based on it is caused by the security situation in the area of BiH. I might have a few more things to say that are mentioned here at the beginning of the different co-workers, who are related to participation in BiH and the Federation of BiH. The fact is, whoever forms power has to have a parliamentary majority and that's known to everyone. But the fact that there are very important elements in the establishment and acquisition of the parliamentary majority is that you have both legality and legitimacy. The fact that there is the legality of establishing this, but legitimacy is a fact, if we leave the position of the holder of sovereignty that it does not exist. This is what I wanted to answer when it comes to the establishment of institutions at BiH and the Federation of BiH, that there is no legitimacy of one of the holders of the sovereignty of the Croatian people. That's what I'm saying from the point of view because the biggest political party in the truth didn't participate in the executive part of the government, no matter what the reasons were, so she gave it, that is, the people gave a voice to that party and therefore, I think that as such it should have been and that is the failure of one that I think in truth is the failure of the Alliance when it formed power, I think it should have offered seats to the representatives of that political party. However, that time will show whether we were in the first place or not and when it comes to self - government. Of course, the different reactions were self-government not a constitutional part of the category at all, and I don't think she had the goal of establishing a territorial part, rather than that it was in truth a political struggle, perhaps awkwardly presented to the public, but it was certainly a political warning that, however, one of the holders of sovereignty should be respected. I'll definitely get back to this part. I propose to the Council of Ministers that, regardless of what it has its own vision that, in which way, BiH is economically developed and if, 45, it would be successful, I would certainly welcome it, however, I suggest that they reconsider their economic development strategy once more, because, unfortunately, it is not a minister here. I think there are shortcomings in this strategy and that it cannot deliver results, unless it is overall combined and all of these other aspects of economic development and one of the foundations is the safety part, on which it rests and everything else develops. I don't think we should go wrong that, maybe that in countries that have overcome the economy is, exactly, that there's a lot to be done but if someone gave it to us. Here we must create a security situation and develop the economic part parallelly. If we work without each other, I think there are small or almost invisible movements and they lead into one dead end. As for me personally, I believe that, the laws that were passed and as a member of the Constitutional-Law Commission that a lot of legislation went according to the urgent procedure, and it is certainly one of the remarks and it is not smart and, of course, that we have always been in the grip of time and it has been said, it must not be passed, otherwise it cannot be done as well as that the High Representative did not have the need to pass such laws, or to declare such laws, or to make such laws, because as Parliament in truth we were doing well and we were doing it in good quality with the aim to achieve best results, but I also have to give notice to the Council of Ministers on the making of laws, or proposals or drafts, I do not know, because different and first of all, there is a draft, somewhere so that a lot of the laws came which were not very high-quality and the aim to us to make as high-quality laws, and to say that there were not even cases in the truths that were not being able to defend themselves, or to defend themselves. They were generally not adequate in the sessions that could defend the law, because they had their own personal opinions and the Council of Ministers' opinions, or were unable to change or explain it in another way, which is why something that was unclear to us. Therefore, I think there is much to improve that there are a lot of failures and there is certainly a shift in this legislation, but when it comes to economic development, I think there is no shift, because a large number of people are still unemployed, or one part of the people who is employed has lost their jobs, and there is no possibility or if there is nothing else there is hope that these new places will be reopened, because that is precisely the purpose and basis of the economic development strategy that I think needs to be reviewed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6237	Thank you. Mr. Lolić, who has already prepared himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6238	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like first to say that in principle I support the report and I will vote for it. I'm still saying the Council of Ministers has done a lot. It could have been more, but I think when we analyze all the conditions we've been working on, we can still be satisfied. I would like to refer in particular to one technical part of the report now, because I think that this is one of the best reports that we have received so far in this ministerial council and that he has responded to many of the ambiguities that we have had, because one of our basic failures is insufficient communication within us and I can say that I have read it really carefully, but that he deserves to be really committed for one 10 to 15 days and I urge that perhaps, all of our parties, we do a more detailed analysis, because there is a bunch of data that 46 needs to be well analysed and that will serve in the future to take some concrete measures. Furthermore, I would like to say that one small flaw is that all the ministries did not have the same pattern on which, on which the reports were being submitted, there are certain differences, so I suggest that it enters it as a conclusion that the Council of Ministers prepares a pattern that each ministry should complete and that this report, to say so rich in one small additional brochure in which we would have one schematic structure and Councils and individual ministries, but all agencies and directors, because this is a problem for all of us, especially now when it comes to these human resources, because believe me, I am even the president of the party, I really have no idea what the directives are available, because I think it is a good thing for all of us to have, and it can ultimately serve some guests who come to this assembly to get one serious paper. It was all in order to further improve this document. Now I'd say that I think the main task is on all of us in the next eight months that we're going to be sitting in these places. I think the Council of Ministers will also get support on Friday, so we can try to find a way to improve mutual co-operation. I would particularly stress here the importance of better co-operation of our permanent delegations in some international organisations and certain ministries, because here today, let's say, the chairman of the OSCE Council of Ministers, I think it is inadmissible in the future that our permanent delegation at... will not be present at such meetings or I do not know our delegation at CEI when someone comes, because then there is a much better exchange of information and improvement of the quality of work. I would like to say that what I am, now I'm going to look a little bit at the content itself, which just fell into my eyes is, when it's about the relationship between bilateral BiH and some other countries, indeed, it's the eye that Japan, which is one of the countries that has given the most investment and donations, is listed there has a very, i.e. a very bad, or disproportionate political relationship which is unacceptable. Japan doesn't even have an embassy in BiH here, but there's a job sender, on the other hand, we don't have a signed contract to improve and protect investment, and this is my idea to say some proposal for a conclusion that accession to negotiations in the signing of this contract and perhaps try and see with the Japanese government whether there are opportunities to open up their embassy and improve political conditions that will follow such extraordinary economic relations. Furthermore, I would also like to say that I would also like to make one remark after this last session of the House of Peoples, where there has indeed been a heated discussion about these reserves. I think it's important that for the next session we get a written report on what really happened to those reserves, because now there's a lot of speculation out there. I personally feel like there's a lot of uninformed information to just take it off the agenda. I would like to say that something that really hurt my eyes, i.e. it stabbed me in the eye, and it's about a parliamentary issue that I'm going to take advantage of, and immediately ask, which is the consequence of our delegation's visit to the OE... which is Mrs. Bahrija Osmanović and Mr. Divković Austria where we talked to a group of students from BiH, who asked us to just ask the question that I'm asking right now. Whether the Council of Ministers intends and when to prepare an agreement on co-operation in the area of higher education with the Republic of Austria, because we have been informed that there is a hundred-year contract between Austria and BiH on free schooling of children from BiH in Austria and, unfortunately, only two students from Austria are studying in Sarajevo and paying for education. I think it is indeed for the conviction and I appeal to the Council of Ministers that urgently, I do not know if I have well appointed that agreement, that agreement signed and delivered to us for ratification. But now I am very concerned about one thing, when in the report of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, since, normally, we have analysed this 47 Ministry since Mr. Sveto Mihajlović is there and last night we held the Executive Committee of the Party and gave him support, we have also analyzed the report of the Special Ministry of Economic Integration, since we are the only of the parties from the assembly majority who has not declared itself definitively and I now announce that tomorrow at 12 am, we will have a press conference on which, after certain consultations with Mr. Mikerević tomorrow, we will present our definitive position on the support of Mr. Mikerević that this, I say, the assistant minister, in that office of citizenship, we will file 2,020 requests for the remainder of BiH citizenship. One thing that really comes before them is the highest of those who seek Austria's citizenship. That it is not the 1,500 students who are studying above, and this is directly related to another problem that we have discussed in Portugal that is... and I urge it to put urgently on its session, and perhaps also to the Parliamentary Assembly of Brain drains, consequences and advantages, because there are also consequences of advantages, but mechanisms for overcoming the consequences of the negative to try to prevent it, because it seems to me that there is a very dangerous trend for our country here because we will waste days and days away if the educated youth is leaving us. And finally, I would like to inform you that our delegation is going to Berlin in July for the annual assembly of the OSCE, on which terrorism, causes, prevention and counterterrorism strategies will be the subject. Let this be an opportunity for us to prepare well and for our delegation to come there with a good act, which we will present to BiH in a much better light, because at the previous annual assembly we were mentioned in the story of The Hag and the story of those riots in Banja Luka and Trebinj, this time we are only mentioned in the Committee on Humanitarian Affairs as a country, because the authorities, as it were literally, are praised by the BiH authorities for the rapid and correct reaction in the delivery of the Algerian group. This is a unanimously accepted position of all 55 OSCE member states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6239	Thank you, Mr. Lolić. The last reported MP in the debate on this agenda point, Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6240	Ladies and gentlemen of the honourable guests, respected members of the Council of Ministers, I say once that the SDP BiH Club supports the Council of Ministers' report. Two, I propose to my esteemed colleague, Mr Grabovac, that we organise an open critical debate on this subject which he also applied to and from which I also began this morning, to think from this time distance about how right we were and how wrong we were that no one on this home's conscience would simply remain dimmed or simply feel guilty because we had done something that was not consistent with the legality and legitimacy of this highest level of legislative authority in BiH, such as the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. So I propose that we really open up an open correct debate on the functioning of the political system in BiH and the BiH state as a multiethnic community and simply to this possibility both in how the authorities are established and so on. Under three, I would like to say that there is a feeling that in some discussions we may have forgotten the powers of the Council of Ministers, I repeat, the Council of Ministers has powers in the field of foreign policy, together with the Presidency, areas of foreign trade policy, areas of customs policy, areas of monetary policy, immigration of refugees, asylum, air traffic and the implementation of inter-entity criminal law. I may have dropped some details from the constitution, but these are the powers of the Council of Ministers. If you compare them to the report, believe me, not 48 can be kidnapped by the impression, no matter how critical, or directed towards opposition action that a man does not admit that, however, most of the work has been done correctly and that they have worked... What I mean. What is the fact of the macroeconomic indicator in BiH no matter how small a step forward, I'll just say a few. Let's just say, the jidi-pi per capita was $1,150 a year ago. Today is $1,300. The salary in the Federation was 270, now the average is 420. In RS average 330. Pensions in the RS and the Federation are increased and paid neatly, etc., but on that basis. Everything I'm saying is not in the Council of Ministers' intelligence. Neither is the problem nor the employment project in the area or in the competence of the Council of Ministers. I think we are on track, that the problem of employment is one of the fundamental problems of BiH's economic policy. That's why I came out, and that's why I'm proposing next. That the Council of Ministers and the new chairman, i.e. candidate for the new chairman's offer, respond to the proposal as I called it a proposal to dynamicise or propose emergency measures to dynamicise employment in BiH. So, this document offers us, to tell us how they think to do it in BiH and how they imagine a model, an instrument through which they will implement this policy that they will draw up with this project. I propose, there is a co-ordination committee for economic development in BiH involving the prime ministers, i.e. the presidents of the entity governments, deputy prime ministers, resolute ministers along with the Council of Ministers. I suggest that perhaps an inter-resor group that would be exclusively directed towards hiring people in BiH can be considered in this regard and that should be recognised. Absolutely, there are little developments in employment in BiH and RS and the Federation of BiH. That's what we have to admit and that's the reality we're facing. So, once again, here is a small contribution from me, if it is possible as part of the proposal of many who have discussed it, so I propose that this document be made and that in its realization, I also report to the next session of the Representative's House when we appoint a new composition, namely the old composition of the Council of Ministers and the new Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, and finally I must say, I feel the need to say that even from the pre-political state of consciousness we started with, we had the feeling to function in the BiH Parliament, the House of Representatives, that today we are really thinking as serious people thought, politically responsible for the fate of this country and in this context these small, simply said digresses that we were not able to disrupt, disrupt the general impression or assessment of the functioning of this representative home, which is owed in many ways for its tolerance, responsibility and the easy possibility to harmonise, make these laws and compromise. Just think about how many amendments have been made to these 25 laws and these laws have been largely formed in this House in the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So 31 laws remain in the procedure, 6 is not adopted, so it is necessary to objectively try to make this integrated link between the Council of Ministers of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples as integrated as possible, the system of mutual responsibility and trust and respect and in this context continue this operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6241	Thank you, Mr. Avdić. No more participants reported in the debate on this agenda. We need to give a word to the representatives of the Council of Ministers. A number of questions were asked, a series of comments were given. Gentlemen who are outside the Council of Ministers would like to address the House of Representatives for the debate held today. Here you go. 49 Here you are, Mr. Imamović, to the Deputy Minister for the Treasury.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6242	Dear Members of Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I have come to you from a moral obligation to show my respect and support for the criticisms you have given us in that way that they are truly well-intentioned and we will review them. However, I must point to one problem. In order to be able to respect the House of Representatives until the end as bound by the Constitution, I propose that the Rules of Procedure and other laws work together to fix the timetable of the House of Representatives and the House of People as a law that no one can change. So if we have a session schedule fixed all around it we have to circle and line up. I really propose as an additional effort so that we can fully respect our commitments to the Parliamentary Assembly, as well as our commitments each day on a regular basis. One more suggestion. I didn't come out to answer any questions addressed to the Treasury Department. I think it's more useful to get written information on the issues that you sign up to be significant in the context of the report, because we didn't imagine that we were having a debate on the report that is ahead of you, but that practically the Council of Ministers followed the reports that you would define and formulate. So we'll respect that. I even suggest that we don't open up big debates and not answer all possible questions, or if you want, we're ready, no matter what we sit here as deputies, I'm telling you that we have both the intelligence and the knowledge to answer all your questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6243	Here you are, gentlemen, from the Council of Ministers. Here you go, Mr. Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6244	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words about issues concerning primarily the Ministry of European Integration, as well as the descriptions, i.e. the jobs that I currently do as coordinator on behalf of the Council of Ministers. First of all, the European Integration Ministry, I am pleased that Mr Stanimirović has noticed a number of international initiatives and institutions in which Bosnia and Herzegovina is as complex as it is difficult or, let's say, more slowly responding than others in a different way to a regulated country. I can say that in 7 days, we will have a final EU inspection to meet the requirements of the Road Meep which some of the laws are very close to adoption and are at today's session. Secondly, I would like to say and thank the representatives for today's discussion, which they asked the Council of Ministers and answers to those questions that are undoubtedly not in the constitutional position and obligations of the Council of Ministers. It seems extremely important to me because it shows one tendency to regulate in Bosnia and Herzegovina so that one responsibility is established for the overall policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will be maintained harmonised on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory, rather than parceled at entity or some lower levels. In this respect, I will point out that the use of terms that are undoubtedly criticised here, such as strategy, vision, action plan, etc. One of the maximum possibilities that the Council of Ministers stands in the hands at all. Namely, I would like to remind you that the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina is 50
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6245	Don't be afraid it's a break-in in the kitchen.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6246	Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget is not called the Budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is called the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it is an extremely restrictive element for the management of macroeconomic and any other policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in those areas where the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina have direct competencies such as the State Border Service. I think we can say that we have achieved extraordinary results, which are very publicly spoken in both domestic and international circles. And a third. The issue was Bosnia and Herzegovina's security policy. I am the Coordinator of the Council of Ministers' Working Group for Security Policy Making. We are in, I would say to the final phase of making this document which is one of the four preconditions of the NATO Peace Partnership Alliance. I think that in the next month we will offer to the Council of Ministers a working, or draft document – Bosnia and Herzegovina's security policy, although we are making it in very complex circumstances in which we are still or are in the final phase of constitutional changes in entities, which is undoubtedly one limiting factor for the development of the whole document, Bosnia and Herzegovina's security policy. Finally, at one of its previous meetings, the Council of Ministers adopted the Information on the activities of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and entities in the fight against terrorism, i.e. preventing terrorist activities, and this report was submitted to MPs, i.e. delegates of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so that I had nothing to add in this respect, given that these were examined very fully in the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6247	Thank you very much. Gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, is anyone else answering for a word? Allow me, Mr. Banjac, sit down slowly. Now they have the word, I'll give you the word. Here you go, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6248	Yes, since sitting can be so fast and slow. I think the gentlemen are confusing something here. I have no intention of criticizing it, but obviously because of the public and the media, who seem to be carrying things differently. One, it almost appeared in the media that the U.S. Congress Commission that analyzed the work of the State Border Service said that it was really true about the work of the Border Service that increased the trafficking of women, human trafficking, oil, cigarettes, but of course illegal. If these are the results what really doesn't match the truth? What was passed on to the media or this. Of course, we need to make it clear that we're worth something based on facts. The fact that the media have recently written very seriously that the Border Service of our Bosnia and Herzegovina means trading women. So there's an increase in efficiency there. And we need to see if it's really disinformation in public, because it wouldn't be right if it weren't true, we shouldn't be wearing those kind of epithets that don't use at all. You know the report, I know the journalists in the papers called and asked what the reactions to the conclusions of 51 of this congress committee were to that effect. I mean, this is the most honest. If we as Parliament need to stop that it is not true, to stop that it is not true. If it's true, let's see if it's true.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6249	Thank you, Mr. Banjac. You asked the question. Dosole Mr. Šarganović one sentence. To try to let go if one of the members of the Council of Ministers wants to answer the questions raised in the debate, to respect that order. After that comes a new question, so some sort of new debate Mr. Banjac and you, Mr. Šarganović, have asked. For the gentleman. Please, and please members of the Council of Ministers to agree who will answer eventually, if you think you need to answer Mr Banjac's question.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6250	I think the press said the State Border Service fought against the trafficking of women, not to use it. So maybe in that newspaper what Mr. Predator was reading was the word that she was fighting and that's it. I really want to make it right.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6251	Thank you. Gentlemen, here you are, a representative of the Council of Ministers. Mr. Lovrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6252	The respected presidency, respected MPs, colleagues from the Council of Ministers would only refer to the issue of the State Border Service. As Mr. Kadić spoke in one, of the overall results about the successes achieved by the State Border Service, Mr. Banjac called for certain articles in the press and in the foreign press related to individual cases that occurred, and they are related to the border of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It means that what is essential for the State Border Service in its project to take over the entire border of Bosnia and Herzegovina has reached a percentage of the takeover of the border over 75% with a projection that this year the entire State Border Service is being taken over from the State Border, the entire state border being taken over by the State Border Service. And that is something that we can refer to in terms of the importance of this project and the final takeover that should result in even greater results in terms of those that Mr. Banjac was talking about. We can today say that human trafficking appears, illegal transitions are increasingly registered and increasingly revealed and increasingly disabled when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and one of the reasons, is that and the fact that the State Border Service is taking over more and more of the control function of the state border of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And there will certainly be even more writing in the coming period on these cases of an attempt and detection of the illegal crossing of the State Border Service which we have not even been able to register in some periods. Thank you. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6253	Thank you. Gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, would anyone like to speak to the House of Representatives? No, it's mine to give everyone the right to, Mr. Bogić, everyone has the right to talk about questions. Whether they use it right or not, that's their business. Gentlemen, no one's answering for a word. Let me finally say one suggestion to Mr Mikerević that if possible, and I think it is possible on Friday, since a meeting of the House of Representatives is scheduled on Friday to be held at which the agenda point is to elect the Council of Ministers' Chair from the Council of Ministers. As you know, the session has already been scheduled. So, Mr. Mikerević, in preparation for your opening presentation, take into account the questions and comments we heard today. I think it would be helpful to install them to the extent possible in your report, an opening report that you will present to the MPs. As we expect, Mr Mikerević, and it is no secret that we have discussed today that MPs will receive your presentation in writing and other necessary materials before the beginning of the session so that the MPs can prepare and monitor your presentation. So this is more than one piece of information. The result of our agreement is that, our formal arrangement as the preparation of the next session, the session on Friday. Gentlemen, we have held a comprehensive debate today on the report on the work of the Council of Ministers. We need to express our relationship, our attitude toward that report. So we need to carry out an act of voting on the report. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. Who's to accept the report on the work of the Council of Ministers? I ask the service to determine the results of the vote. Please keep it up a bit because our service still can't get there. Did you make it? Yes, it is. Thank you. Please let me know when you count the votes so I can move on. Please, who's against it? Mr. Lolić, do you vote, and I don't apologize? Thank you. Who's restrained? - one abstention. It's an entity vote. Please, who is from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina to accept the report? That's what you ask our ladies who count the votes. Who is from Republika Srpska to accept the work report? Thank you. Please report. Gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, reduce your excitement. I think you've had a positive score. Of the 41 present MPs for 26 against 13, abstention 1. By entities, Federation of BiH for 20, Republika Srpska for 7.. I konstatuj that the report has been adopted. 53 Gentlemen, we are going to Ad. 3. MPs' questions and answers In the meantime, from the 20th session to the present day, we have agreed on the parliamentary issues of Mr. Kulenović, Spasojević, Osmanović, Majdandžić, on two issues Mr. Malkić, Mr. Šarganović, Amidžić, Buturović and Mr. Grabovac. There you are, gentlemen. We've got a messenger's watch. The gentlemen of the Council of Ministers are like tense rifles, waiting to give answers. Here you go, Mrs. Osmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6254	At the 19th session of this house, I asked a question on which I would repeat to the public that the issue concerns non-compliance with employment rights, especially in the part of compulsory insurance. I specifically appealed to the provision of employees to international organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to pay mandatory contributions from their work. I got a reply from the Council of Ministers and I thank you for your reply. But I am not satisfied with this answer. In addition, it was said in response that the law required the obligation to pay contributions for all employees, including employees of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to international organisations. However, it is evident that this obligation is not being carried out. I think that this country is obliged to prevent work on black that is very widespread in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It doesn't matter which institutions will stop it anymore. Whether it's state or entity, it's already important to solve the problem. I, meanwhile, learned that even in this building of ours, a large number of people have been working in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for more than a year. The right to tell you this knowledge is very surprising, because it is incomprehensible that something like this is happening in the state institutions of the highest rank. It is known that contract work is limited to a certain time and cannot be infinite. I believe that these are also very damaged people who work so hard without pension and health insurance and funds in which compulsory contributions from a regular working relationship would be paid. For these reasons, I ask the Council of Ministers a question of two: one. How many people in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions have been working under a contract for more than six months? 2. Is the adoption of a roof law in Bosnia and Herzegovina on work and what the state will do, and what will the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina do to prevent black work? The answer to these questions is positive, I would be happy to see all those employees working in school, in health care without saying what that would mean for the pensioners population. Thank you. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6255	Thank you. Please submit a written question to the secretary. Mr. Bjelobrk Belabrk.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6256	Mr. Chairman, I will rely on a syntagm used here today in the debate, which you have given the right to the household. Since I'm not good at monkey business, I'm going to have to ask you specifically about finding that no question or initiative I've given you has been answered or is it partial? I therefore ask the Chair of the House of Representatives to follow his obligation under Article 25, point (j) as well as the College of the Parliamentary House, following his obligation under Article 19, point (a) of my right to ask the questions referred to in Articles 124 and 129. The Rules of Procedure finally announced the plan of their activities and this time I am looking publicly in front of the entire House, because this is the eighth time I think that one and the same job I do, so that you will announce the plan of your activities by which you will provide me with answers to the questions to remind you: - about Banja Luka and Trebinj, - visits to the delegation of Republika Srpska and - my initiatives that he has adopted by the chairman of this House to discuss the decision of the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina on constitutionality. I'll be free to say in my own language, I think Dar has crossed the line.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6257	Thank you, Mr. Bjelobrk. Mr. Šarganović, you asked for it, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6258	The first question is - Is the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers familiar with the disappearance, so at least it says, a large amount of US dollars from the Jugobank Sucession cca $800 million? - What and what measures have been taken to protect Bosnia and Herzegovina's interest in the disappearance of these funds and will Bosnia and Herzegovina be damaged by the disappearance of those funds? The second question – Will the passage and transport of all goods including oil derivatives be possible soon through the border crossing of Užljebići, i.e. that this transition is included in the first category?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6259	Thank you. Hand it over to the secretary, please. Mr. Buturović. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6260	Given that the basic principles of European democracy and the public are the transparency of the work of the executive government, and the financial control of the spending of the funds collected from taxpayers, I ask the Council of Ministers for a response from the Federal Government -- what are the criteria and criteria for granting loans from the Federal Employment Service? The question was initiated by the Association of Independent Businesses of the Municipality from which I came. Since it's a little longer, I wouldn't read it, it's written in the text. I'll turn him in and ask for an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6261	Thank you, Mr. Buturović. Give it to the secretary. Mr. Mirko Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6262	Dear gentlemen, before I ask the question, I would like to tell all citizens who have the same or similar problems that I will gladly or on their behalf, if others will not ask the same question that I will ask today on behalf of a group of citizens from the Sanhedrin Bridge. A group of citizens from the Sanski Most vs. has been legally seized, better said seized property. I ask the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons and Human Rights to answer me - what did it do or what does it intend to do in that case? I'm here to deliver a question, a letter, signatures with the number of parcels that have been taken and the video, if necessary. And I'd be happy to do the same for every other group of citizens, no matter what nation they belong to, because they're obviously the biggest unfortunate people wandering from office to office and cannot get their rights solved. I ask that, therefore, to be absolutely clear, here I offer myself to the service of others who have problems like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6263	Thank you, Mr. Banjac. Give it to the secretary. Mr. Cuplov Mustafa.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6264	At the 19th session, I asked four questions from the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications concerning the issues related to CEM licenses, and in principle I am satisfied with the speed of the answer, a short time has passed which so far has not been a practice, and the quality of the answers to the questions asked. But unfortunately, I don't seem to understand the part that's pretty clear, but I'm going to try a certain way to bring everyone closer to what's going on. So in the first question, the first question sought the criteria and conditions under which these licences for Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2001 territories were issued? 56 Then comes a series of questions and answers. One of these concerns concerns 10% of the educational international licenses for Austria and Italy at the disposal of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications. In answer to that question, the Ministry finds that I'm only interested in those 10% and shows it as my mistrust in the competent authority. I must tell you that was not the goal, and I will be forced to rephrase this question in order to get a quality answer. On the contrary, of course I'm asking for 10% of what you have, because the license data you've issued is probably yours. The information that I have at my disposal for all 90% of what you send to the entity level is entirely questionable whether they were made on the basis of the Regulation on the criteria that you have issued. That's questionable. It is also extremely questionable to further schedule these permits at the cantonal level whether the creations that should have been practically respected by your ministry are respected at the cantonal level? That's very important. So you've made a replacement for thesis. Please, I want to rephrase the question then and now ask it again. I ask you nicely, do you have any information, - are the criteria you've brought to entity and cantonal levels in issuing these permits respected?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6265	Thank you. Mr. Grabovac. Please ask a question, Mr. Cupple, written questions to deliver, and you can deliver later. Here you go, Mr. Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6266	Mr. President, gentlemen, I have received three answers to three of my questions. But I have one remark, if nothing else, if I can't translate the service into the language that belongs to me, it's Croatian, then at least I can rewrite that text that I said, which means I asked a representative question to be in the language I'm asking. But I'm not happy, because I'm not completely satisfied about it, not getting it from the BiH presidency, and the Federation's Ministry of Defence replied, and I'm pretty pleased here, but with the fact that I can't complete it without the presidency's reply. Unfortunately, the Bureau didn't do it, and the Federation level did it. However, there is one of my questions that has also not been obtained from the Council of Ministers, from the Minister for Refugees and Displaced Persons and Asylum, but I have received the same answer from the Federal Ministry for the Affairs of Disabilities of Homeland Work, which I am not satisfied with, and my question has been about the signing of an interstate contract between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia when it comes to the award of construction material to HVO members. I don't know if that question and the answer are divided into benches, but it is the answer of the Ministry of Defence to say that the part of the distribution is based on the law of HRHV, which was passed in 94. However, I warn that a regulation has been adopted at all county levels and that, under that regulation, it is necessary to implement the distribution, and those who have not adopted the regulation that they have to lay down regulations, because it is exclusively for members of the HVO, not just one or two categories, because 57 here is just said that the material is distributed to members of the wartime disabled and families of the dead, while the developed defenders do not. I believe that part cannot go because the regulation exists in some counties, it is not respected and that it cannot be distributed under this law and that it must be shared on all members of the HVO. That's why I'm asking for more up-to-date action from the Council of Ministers, because my question went that way. I can rebuild it one more time. So it is not a disputed part, but it is disputed that it cannot be divided under the law that was put out of force by the regulation although no law has been passed at the level of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but regulations have been passed at the county level. Those counties which have not adopted the regulations should, since they have defence ministries, be subject to regulation and, in accordance with today's time, such distribution must be carried out. Until it is, and until this part is this part, I am asking this home to stop the verification of this agreement. It cannot be done in such a way that, since discrimination here is in the extreme case of human rights violations until the regulations are adopted at the level of the county, or the ministry, or the Council of Ministers, since the interstate agreement is that the Council of Ministers adopts a rule or that the guidance on the establishment of a regulation for the level of counties or the Federation for the distribution of this building material for members of the HVO. Because you can't treat just one category or two and turn the other off. I can add a question to that, but there's more intervention here. I would ask that the Minister of Refugees here, because there is no distribution to be made, that is, the Council of Ministers asking that no distribution be made until the verification of the agreement is carried out, and I believe that the verification of the agreement should not be carried out until it is known which way and how and how distribution and distribution will be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6267	Mr. Malkić Abdurahman. Mr. Grabovac, I'm asking you to send the questions to the Home Secretary in writing later.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6268	Members of the Parliament, gentlemen of the chairman, distinguished guests, I would like to ask one question, i.e. to give the Council of Ministers a suggestion to take certain activities and to get information on which direction they will take these activities. It's about the next one. Disabling the abuse of apartment purchases in Republika Srpska. It's about what it's about. In the area of the municipality of Srebrenica and Bratunac the contracts, i.e. the solutions to the award of apartments, have been knowingly destroyed and the same citizens cannot obtain from it the citizens cannot purchase apartments even though they are introduced into the property of the apartment or are given a decision whether the CRPC whether the local Omija on return to the property of the apartment. I therefore ask the Council of Ministers for activities, and the Council of Ministers to take action to pass on these problems to OHR citizens. And the second question, i.e. the initiative would be in the direction that Minister Imamović said that meetings of the House of Representatives were held every 25 every 5 or some date of the month so that we could plan activities in advance so that it wouldn't happen to me this morning that I went on the road to Srebrenica and in the meantime, reading the paper saw that 58 today was a session and returned, so that we have a Council of Ministers to be accessible every moment, every maintenance, at every session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6269	Thank you. It's obviously a technical flaw. Who else? Here you go, Mr. Stokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6270	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the esteemed guests of my question reads – Who are they to address for the help of the Brcko District refugee who have been expropriated, and their property located in the territory of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been destroyed? The larger number of families in Brcko are deposed, have no place to go back, the Federation has destroyed property, no alternative accommodation has been offered, and they have also not received any compensation, material assistance that could reschedul their housing facilities in the Federation. Thus, this is a problem that needs to be given some attention and help to these people.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6271	Thank you. Let's move on. Mr. Bilbija.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6272	My parliamentary question is: - What is the total number of employees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina per institution financed by the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2002? - And what number of employees in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions in 2001 as well as the number per institution funded in 2001 by the Budget of the institutions of Republika Srpska? And I would ask the Council of Ministers, I said in an earlier presentation of three parliamentary questions, during the term of office I received an answer to one thing. To answer this question by the next session of the House of Representatives, and that period is at least 10 days when it would be scheduled today. So I don't mean this one now where the Council of Ministers is at, but until next session, because the question has certain effects. And I think this issue concerns the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that it is not something the Council of Ministers cannot answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6273	Thank you, Mr. Bilbija. Here you go, Mr. Majdandžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6274	My question is - 1. When will the Social Security Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia be signed? 59 2. When will the bridge be completed on the master road of Banja Luka – Sarajevo in the part of the Black River – Eggs? Because now you're going round the way that's 25 kilometers long. It's supposed to be minor malfunctions, because it can even go through its own responsibility through that tunnel, and it seems to me that it's some kind of interential oversagement, which is only if it's not already over. Then the answer is clear. Two years doing it all, I think it's all supposed to end, that there's no excuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6275	Thank you, Mr. Majdandžić. Which of the messengers does he answer? Niko. Before I finish this point, I'd like to beg and I'm obliged to give an explanation to Mr. boriti Bjelobrk. He asked a question. Mr. Bjelobrk here disagrees with certain data that I have with what you said, but I suggest it this way. Since you had a question for me and the College on Friday will be a session of the College and we invite you to a session of the College to see what's controversial, which are questions you didn't get an answer to. I think that's a way of not burdening us now. We'll sit down and see what the problem is and you'll get an answer from me and the College and we'll see what the problem is. I think they're technical problems and there's no reason to deny you an answer to the question. No, no, we invite you, you will be invited to a session of the House of Representatives to see what the problem is. Thank you very much. We're going to the fourth point of the agenda, Ad. 4. The Joint Commission's report on the achievement of the Agreement on the Single Text of the Law on Defence Here we have the next situation. Let me remind you. The Law on Defence was adopted in the House of Representatives and a commission was formed to bring the text into line with the commission, with members of the House of Peoples. Members of the Joint Committee for the Consensus of the Law on Defence met and tried to bring the text into line. You've received a report. You can see from the report that two amendments were adopted in the House of Peoples and 13 amendments were adopted in the House of Representatives. So it was necessary for the texts to be agreed and the Joint Commission reached agreement and came up with a harmonised text. And you have that in the report. I don't think I need to explain that. What may cause your attention in the report on the alignment of the text of the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina is the conclusion that has been given here which actually corresponds to the Article 6 of the Law adopted in the House of Representatives. I say, therefore, it corresponds in substance, and there should be no problem on that side. However, we gentlemen here have made an exception to the rules, the conclusion is not the text that goes in the report. And every kind of objection you make to us here will be justified. I personally think this isn't, that this is an exception and that what's embedded in the report can't be a rule. Why did the Commission accept that this conclusion which is not published in the Official Messenger and which remains part of this report, as you know in the law is published only, is published in the Official Messenger only in the text of the law, that is, that 60 would come to this law and that was part of a political compromise to come to an agreed text. I think I've, I've tried to give you an explanation with all possible criticism that you're going to give to the members of the Commission. The goal was to get the text provided by the road map. There you are, gentlemen. Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6276	You gentlemen are putting us in a position to be able to explain how a woman can be a little pregnant. Because please, the Rules of Procedure are very clear. The Commission does not have the right to go outside the scope of the Rules of Procedure. What you have the right to do is to accept one or the other in the framework of the proposed amendments, to seek a compromise between one or the other or to modify the more acceptable in a way that you accept it. You didn't do any of that in this conclusion, you went outside the box. You know, let's just not do this later. Such an approach raises the question, and why? Why now, and then you won't. The second thing, the Commission is not a political but a professional working body and it cannot make political compromises, but it can make professional compromises and I have no objection that you have found something out of this and modified one of the amendments and we have installed it and we have agreed. I mean this honestly. I don't know why you didn't ask for a solution like that, but you're getting into one solution that you're asking for to be precedentd. The question arises why would it just be a precedent now, and then it wouldn't be. I ask you not to do so, but to try to find a solution in this direction as I said modifying some of the amendments where it might be, if this is your common position that this conclusion is good for you, I will later tell you what I think. But I'd like to frame it in a content that is commercially acceptable and nothing else. So I can't vote for those reasons because it would show once again in a series of evidence that we've done to pass the law to violate it, to bring the Rules of Procedure to violate it. That's not why I'm here. So it's not about wanting to find a compromise. I'm to be found, but in a business-friendly way.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6277	Thank you, Mr. Banjac. Who's reporting for a word? Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6278	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, dear guests, just a few words. We've made a lot of effort to bring these into line as the chairman of the 13-mandman House of Representatives and the 2 amendments as far as I know the House of Peoples. And we agreed. Only in Article 6 of the amendment of the House of Peoples is the 6th amendment of the House of Representatives, and in that sense we have agreed to the law. The conclusion is not a conclusion that has unlimited range, and Dom can adopt it separately and especially. After the adoption, the alignment, normally. And on the other hand, the usability of this conclusion, its achievements and reach are extremely limited. It is likely that some other composition of this home will implement this conclusion. This means that it needs to be realized and it is not a key political issue about the law itself. Thank you. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6279	Is anyone else answering for word? I think we have a way out of this situation. Obviously, my opening statement, Mr Banjac and Mr Avdić's exposure, is quite clear that it is the Rules of Procedure and that we actually need to find a solution not to violate the Rules of Procedure and I think we can find that solution. So that would be next. Let's vote specifically on the report, especially the conclusion. And I think it's the Members of Parliament in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and we're not going to violate the Rules of Procedure. Does he have any objections to this proposal? We can make a decision now, and the report will change. It's the technical part of the job you know. That we don't create technical problems now. So please let us vote separately. To be exact, we have a report ahead of us. Please, gentlemen, take a report and take a look. To satisfy Mr Tošić's remarks. I think you can get rid of it now. So we have the other side we have the paragraph – Joint Commission at a session held so three points and this paragraph ends in Amendment II of the House of Peoples. Gentlemen, that's where they'd draw the line and that'd be the text of the report. After that, it would be the text of the conclusion. So technically these two units can be singled out and thus enable you to. Mr. Tošić, I'm retired, please follow me. We will have two different votes, we will vote twice, for the first time on the report, and the second time on the conclusion. I ask you, the text of the report ends on the second page with the words of the House of Nations, the text of the conclusion begins – Joint Commission etc. Is there something unclear, please? There isn't. If there is no unclear I believe we can approach the voting act and ask you to hold the vote. Who is for the report on the alignment of the law on the defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina with this line, as I said I am not repeating? Without a conclusion, it is. Thank you. Who's against it? - No Niko kao's restrained? - One MP please report. He won't need an entity vote. So of the 34 MPs who voted for the report without a conclusion 33 for one abstention. There's no need for an entity vote. Gentlemen, we are going to vote on the conclusion. That's the second part below. Let's finish the vote if it's not about this. Here you go, Mr. Bjelobrk. I thought, I asked if something was unclear. I didn't see you. It's not a problem. Here you go. Okay. All right, here you go. It's not a dispute. Here you go, Mr. Bjelobrk. Let's get this straight. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6280	I'll ask you, I want to respect the effort you've announced here. You say in the second sentence of the conclusion, after the end of the term of office it is an obligation to carry out the selection of function holders from the order of other constituent peoples etc. I'd like to ask you to pregmatically explain this to me. So in the first sentence you say that first holders of functions in judicial institutions will be elected for a period of four years. I assume you understand me. Is this a story after four years and what is now a story from which, what is now the order of other constituent peoples in the pragmatic sense of the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6281	Here you go, Mr. Avdić. Mr Avdić will respond because he was chairman of the Joint Commission
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6282	It is clear that, in principle of the 3rd institution, which is at the top of the legislative, i.e. the Law on the Court of Justice, i.e. on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Court of Justice cannot, simply means that they must have presidents, leaders of three constitutive equal legal peoples, and in this context this principle of rotation must be respected, i.e. simply a concession around these three main functions and it is not disputed. So it is absolutely necessary that, when changing, let's say, the Council of Ministers chairing the House of Representatives, etc. Let's agree to those mandates. I guess we'll agree, then these three main functions will be of three equally legal constitutive peoples. It's clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6283	Thank you. Do you?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6284	There's another representative of the people coming. Of course. Well, brother dear, clearly.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6285	Please, Mr. Bjelobrk. Mr. Ljubić was a member of the Commission he believes he can provide an additional explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6286	Dear MPs, I think this conclusion is that we believe that in both the Law on the Court and the Law on the Prosecution and the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina should be said and the aim is to conclude and communicate that the term of office is 4 years, that the next President of the Court, Prosecutor or Advocate is from another constituent people. So after four years he's next and so for 12 years, the representatives of three constitutive peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6287	Okay. Any more questions? There isn't. Therefore, the aim is to ensure the equality of the constituent peoples in the exercise of the most responsible functions in the judiciary. Okay. 63 Please, Members of Parliament, let us approach the vote. So we have the text of the conclusion below the Joint Commission after the alignment, etc. until the end of this text. Please, which one of the MPs is to conclude? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Did you make it? Obviously, an entity vote will be required. I'd like an entity vote, please. Who's from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina for? Were you able to count it? Who's from Republika Srpska for? Thank you. Please report. Please, gentlemen, Members of the 35 MPs who voted for 23, with 17 abstentions, and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 20, Republika Srpska in 3. So the required majority was not achieved, the entity majority and it was then going further procedure- it seemed to me to be a process of alignment. So, most importantly, for the sake of the record, I would like to conclude, for the sake of the record, that the text of the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been adopted, which is part of what the job in the House of Representatives is done and remains part of the work in the House of Peoples to make them known. If they accept, then the text of the law is passed. Let's move on, gentlemen. Moving to point 5. Ad. 5. A report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of the Agreement on the Single Stream of the Copyright and Related Rights Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina You have received a report from the Commission. I have to tell you that I'm here in doubt. We have a new old report. They both wear the date of March 11th. We got the first one before the session, man, and we got a new one during the session. I'm asking you to explain yourself, to show what's wrong. I am distracted that this is the case – Amendment VII in the surplus report because it is regulated by Amendment VI. I ask the Members of the Commission from the House of Representatives who took part in the agreement to inform the House about this. Please, who was it? You want Mr. Banjac, you're the most formaled. Here you go, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6288	I think it's just a technical matter and there's no need. What has been regulated by Amendment VII has already been contained in Amendment VI and that is only the only difference not to duplicate things. And here it is quite clear that the Commission has agreed on all points of view. So there is nothing controversial about the Commission. 64 Let me briefly tell you the compromise is required in this regard to this formulation of the institution in the field of science and art. There is a space from whose jurisdiction it is, and institutions will act.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6289	Mr. Banjac, just one question. Is this text that we received during the session harmonised text?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6290	Absolutely that I just said, Amendment VII contained in Amendment VI and thus only made corrections nothing beyond that.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6291	All right, so it's just a technical correction. Thank you. Please, gentlemen. Is anyone answering for a hearing? No, I don't. The debate is over. I ask the MPs to approach the plea. So we vote on the report on the alignment of the text of the Copyright and Related Rights Act. We heard the explanation. Who's for the report? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's being held back? Please don't make it a dilemma, an entity vote. Who's from Republika Srpska for? Members of Republika Srpska who's in favour? Thank you. Members of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, please, who's in favour? Thank you. Please report. 35 MPs voted 30 against four, abstention one. By entities, from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 17 votes in favour, from Republika Srpska 12 votes in favour. I find that a Joint Commission report on the achievement of the Agreement on the Single Text of the Copyright and Related Rights Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been adopted and that the procedure for this House has been completed. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad. Six. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Statistics Law, as you know at the 20th session of the Proposal for a Statistics Act in the first reading, did not receive an entity majority. Afterwards, the College met in the function of the Commission. You have received a report from the Commission from the College. As you have seen, the College has reached agreement on the bill's proposal in the first reading. 65 Ono. Please, let's move on to the debate. The next issue to be raised, which we must point out, are amendments to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Statistics Law proposal submitted by Željko Bilbija, chairman of the PDP-DSP-SNSD-SN-SPRS. There were different opinions in the College. At the end of these discussions in the College, we came to the point that the College does not have a unique position. Mr. Avdić, Mr. Ljubić will say it himself later. The main thing is that Mr. Avdić finally came to the conclusion that these amendments cannot go to Article 94(3). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, while I stood at the point that I could, that meeting these terms were these. In short, let me remind you of this article, once the debate has started, the chair will consult with the vice-president's vice-president to respect the new amendments only in the following cases under a. and under b. The Rules of Procedure authorises the chairman to make his own decision because they are consultations. However, this parliament has worked in this assembly so that members of the College have always reached agreement when it comes to the amendment's proposals. I believe that the College should always work on a consensus basis, whether or not three members of the College agree. I just think, I think other members of the college agree that this question, this doesn't agree with us. I'm sorry it came to him to resolve this disagreement by bringing this problem to the House so the House can plead. So if there's no consent in the College then that's what the Dom says. It seems to me it's so regulated by the Rules of Procedure and we won't be wrong about that. So the question of these amendments to Article 94(3) is whether they are submitted to that member or not? There are differing opinions, and so we remain to plead. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6292	I ask you to come out Mr. Bilbi and explain to us MPs you've obviously said something which is only clear to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6293	Mr. Banjac, Mr. Bilbi will come out so we agreed. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6294	I welcome all present.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6295	You're quite rightly concerned, but Mr. Bilbija will come out. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6296	I welcome all present. I came forward as chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission, which belongs to this matter, and this commission was considering this law on January 25th and there was no amendment. The amendments were made on 11.3. That means yesterday and it's my personal opinion, I'm not saying on behalf of the Commission that they are not timely. Article 94, which follows the amendment, refers to amendments which are otherwise applied and have two exceptions to those 66 amendments, of these amendments tabled. This is when it concerns new aspects which the Commission could not take into account. We haven't considered any amendments and we couldn't consider any amendments. After that, no one can propose amendments on the basis of this Article at point 94a. I think they are related to the amendments considered by the Commission and did not take all aspects into account. These are new untimely amendments and I don't think anyone can find in the Rules of Procedure the possibility of these being timely amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6297	Thank you very much, Mrs. Začiragić. I have a completely different opinion. I respect your opinion as fellow lawyers. You have the right to your opinion, I have the right to my opinion. I don't rule out your opinion, I beg you not to rule out mine either. Everyone can express their opinion and argue with him, but he has no right to deny to others the right to give his opinion. Here you go, Mr. Bilbija. No, you can't. There's a colleague named Bilbi. Here you go, Mr. Bjelobrk, but I'm asking you to be gentle and not start when I give my word, the MP gets up, so I have to put him back in place. Here you go. It's not a problem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6298	I would ask you to follow the provisions of Article 94(3)(a) and (b) which are the new aspects known to you, which the Commission could not take into account, and on this basis you have formulated such a position, or which this is about the harmonisation of two or more of the proposals set out in Article b which could be discussed. So to find out these reasons why they might apply the position of a. or b. in the third position of Article 94.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6299	Thank you, Mr. Bjelobrk. If you look at the information, I'll give you my word, just a little clarification. If you look up at the material, and I don't think you might have gotten the material or seen it. The above is written in accordance with Article 94 paragraph 3 below a. So it is not a question under a. or b. The Proposer calls for point a., not point b. Here you have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6300	Dear gentlemen, you know that in one of the last sessions, I don't think it was the last session of the law that had an entity majority. So he went to a match. In order to reconcile the views in one way, one Parliament believes it has a basis, one that it does not. I, on behalf of the Club, have made amendments to try to find a solution to adopt this law at Parliament. Because if he was interested in the law gone, that means my club whose representative I voted against the law. And with that, I think it would be good to plead that we try to pass this law at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, if none of it means we stay in a sealed state and we don't have a law. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6301	Thank you, Mr. Bilbija. Mr. Malkić answered his word. Here you go, Mr. Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6302	Ladies and gentlemen, it's obviously up to whoever's investing in the amendments and how he's investing, not how he's investing, but who's investing in double. At one of the previous sessions, me and Mr. Chairman Mirjanić were here...that my amendments were legally valid, and now here are the amendments that were tabled when consent was reached, me when the report was made and agreed. So Mr. Bilbija had the opportunity to invest the same day because he knew whether it would be consent or not. Why didn't we have the opportunity to make amendments? Why didn't we? So it's obvious that we have double arches and that we're interpreting the Rules of Procedure as per our own opinion as to whom it is desired. I beg you, let's take this seriously and treat it the same way, against all amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6303	Thank you, Mr. Malkić. One correction. You and the chairman didn't agree, you had different opinions. So let us not view it as, using terms that are not appropriate to the congregation. We all have the right to differing opinions. We all have the right to make mistakes, and that's not controversial. We'll come to a solution. It's home that's about to come out. So we'll respect the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6304	Since this is where the President of the Commission came out, I have a few questions. Dear colleagues, whether the Commission has had amendments to Article 2(3). Nothing. But it's not on Article 6. No, it's not. It's not. Well, you see. Take it easy. These officers are nervous, obviously something's wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6305	Please, gentlemen of the staff. Excuse me, Mr. Banjac. Excuse me a minute. I'm asking Mr. Officers not to get involved in the work. They're not MPs. You can only get a word when I give you my word. Here you go, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6306	Now, since that's the case. So I draw your attention to what it says, Mr. Malkić, it's not my fault that sometimes the MP doesn't know how to properly call on the Rules of Procedure or maybe it's not even his obligation. But the board of gentlemen couldn't even take the aspects Mr. Bilbija was looking for, because she didn't even consider it. Therefore, the distinguished Mr. Bilbija has quite cleverly taken advantage of the Rules of Procedure and said – you have not discussed it, this is a new aspect, I demand that this be deleted, so a completely new approach. He does when it comes to a new aspect. And the new aspect is to erase something. So that's not gonna happen at all. Isn't that a new aspect? It's not. It certainly is a new aspect. Boro, let it go. We'll make a deal later. But it's an absolutely new aspect. 68 Next, Mr. Bilbija, gentlemen in Article 2(3), is seeking a completely new approach, a new aspect. Making official statistics from Bosnia and Herzegovina will include activities related to the completion, analysis and distribution of data obtained from entity institutions, which is a completely new aspect of the earlier point. Thus, he absolutely properly called for Article 94 of point 3 below. It's not a new law, it's a new aspect.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6307	A new aspect. You said it right. It's a new angle.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6308	Never one member is a law. You understand. You gentlemen can't deny that these are not new aspects. You can say we won't. I don't argue with you saying you won't. But gentlemen, this is a new approach.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6309	Thank you Mr. Malkić said this is a new approach. I agree. Please. Replica. Wait. Stop, stop. Please. Stop, colleague Malkić, first came from colleague Začiragić and she was called, and she is a lady. Here are my colleagues, Začiragić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6310	I have to use one harsh word. This is a legal maneuver for late amendments. Such a maneuver appeared in another law. It's gonna be about him. This Article 94 shall not apply in this case unless amendments have already been tabled. Members and clubs of Members may propose amendments that dispute amendments adopted by the Commission. They will deliver such amendments no later than 48 hours before the start of the plenary session. Within the same deadline, MPs and Members' clubs may propose written amendments that they wish to defend again. This is about the amendments tabled and the possible corrections. It's 48 hours. It's 24 hours. On no basis can this be a timely amendment. This is just one legal maneuver to impose and make it difficult to pass this law and I call on everyone to honestly approach the vote. Who doesn't vote for the law, but we'll get into a situation where we don't even know when our deadline for the amendment is over. It stands in this Rules of Procedure 48 hours of amendments to the amendment and 48 is on the amendments that have already been tabled. This member treats the amendments tabled and later corrections, and there can be no way to talk about the authorisation of the new amendment. Please, we made the Rules of Procedure a chewing gum. It extends it to whoever it suits and makes some kind of maneuvers for the amendments to be invested in daily political needs. It's already becoming a phenomenon for us. This is a second case. This is the second case that we are trying to approach the issue of amendments with a double archaic. Malkic's amendments were rejected for reasons of untimelyness, and he did not possibly call on a member of 94th although he could not. 69 I ask Parliament to take the Rules of Procedure seriously. There is no urgency and there is no authority behind which we will stand and accept what is not foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. Please, let's get serious here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6311	Thank you. Who's calling? Mr. Whiteberry replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6312	Whoever deals with publishing or who follows me to say the last books in the world in the last month on all the top lists in the top is a book titled Nou logo. A great lady naumi Naumi Klajn wrote, and I must admit that I just got a wish to report to the lady with a contribution that might be called new aspects for a new logo. I want to point out the following. There's a note in the stenogram, and buy a book I advise you on. I suggest the following, or that the Headship of the Assembly take a break here to say no words, or let the chairman, whose right it is, explain these new aspects which are treated by Article 94, paragraph 3 of the new amendments, and they cannot be of the series of those who are the feature of the standard amendments. So the amendment that wants to delete something, the standard category, the amendment that wants to change something is the standard category, etc. All of this is foreseen in the phases of Article 94(1) and (2), etc. Therefore, I am keenly interested in what are the new aspects of which the chairman has the undisputed right to make such a decision, or in return to find a member who has just announced the possibility that the House will decide whether or not it will. I think it would be wisest, and I'm even asking my club chief to take a break of 10 minutes, let the people involved in this problem be consulted. We'll go to another extreme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6313	Thank you. Please, there's too much explanation here, and explanations about whether there's a new proposal, if there's no new proposal to go to the voting act, because we can be exhausted by tomorrow in persuasion. Here's your colleague, Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6314	I once again explain the motives that led me to respect the Rules of Procedure. First of all, and first of all, I think that last time, MP Malkić was unjustly left out and simply his amendments ignored in terms of consideration at this House. So my moral obligation was that in the same position, the situation simply didn't accept this intervention 24 hours before the session. That's one argument. Second argument. I would not comment on the Rules of Procedure, although it is said that changes have simply been made or that some new moments have been introduced through the amendments, if you are reading the amendments we have not yet started to discuss. The amendments change the Statistics Act as a whole. They're changing absolutely. It's a whole new law, and we've already been through the first reading. Adopted the principles and fundamental postulates of this law. The college has agreed. How now, simply in the second reading, we have amendments that radically alter the first reading. And adopted principles of law. We've adopted the principles of the law. It's a stubborn fact. We can't just change that 70. Mr. Bilbija's amendments change completely, break the Statistics Act. So I'm asking my colleague, Bilbija, to withdraw the amendments, to withdraw the amendments. It won't be good if we discuss them. I'm warning you one more time and I'm asking my colleague Bilbija to withdraw the amendments he's given. If you read them well, you'll see what's going on. We are simply bringing aakon down on statistics and the Bosnia-Herzegovina Statistics Agency to the NGO's organisation of peoples. You may think so. I don't think this is Bilbija's writing, but someone else suggested it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6315	Thank you. Please, you'll get the word of your colleague Amidžić. This is where the questions are asked. We need to explain a few things for the facts. First. Please, as far as I'm concerned, I'm asking for your attention so that I don't say the same thing again a few times I'll give you an explanation. When it comes to the amendments of counterpart Malkić last time, that's when the College of Consecutions, so the three of us came to the conclusion that they were not in line with Article 94(3), not the chairman. It's the first fact and you know it. That's what you were told in the House session, and everybody knows it. We don't want to talk about it. Secondly, when it's said that these amendments change the law, that's exactly what the word "new aspects" is. Allow me, don't get in the word. I heard you. This isn't a new law. Please. The new law means when you propose the second text of the law to the assembly procedure. You're going to complete procedure. You can't propose a new law to the Amandans, but a change in the law that's in the process. That's quite clear. If these changes are so great that what counterpart Avdić said in substance, which is so that they represent major substantive changes, then they are gentlemen new aspects. Next. My colleague, Bjelobrk, asked a question and I will remind you of Article 20, which reads – The College makes its decisions by consensus, if efforts to reach a consensus fail the decision of the House. Even here you can interpret that the chairman can only make his own decision based on consultation. I want this home to function as a democratic institution and I want every MP to be able to speak his mind and you said it and I want the House to be the one to judge, not between the three of us to show up who the chairman is. I believe that the function of the chairman is to create a compromise of tolerance and a democratic atmosphere and that it is most important that we agree, not that we in the College vote or that the chairman does not respect his colleagues. I don't want to, and that's why I think Dom needs to be made aware of this issue of the amendments. That's all. Mr. Amidžić, then Mr. Banjac. Mr Amidžić has already answered twice, I apologize, but I had to give an answer. No problem, but I'm the one who was called to answer. Here you go. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6316	Gentlemen, my fellow chairman, I will be very brief. Look out, both the Rules of Procedure and our practice, these MPs here are inexorable. Dom finished discussing the law. Dom voted on the law. The Commission has not reached agreement. So no matter how we discuss gentlemen today and the amendments without them, the Commission has not reached agreement. So that's the disposition of it, is it? What's next? It is only a statement of the House that follows, and I suggest we go to the House's plea, and let him bear responsibility for the law-making or not for those who think it's not good solutions for him. So the suggestion is we go to a plea. I'll vote for the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6317	Thank you, Mr. Amidžić. Another explanation. Let me just remind you, it's not explained, it's a reminder that the House vote did not achieve agreement. That is the essence of the matter and that the achievement of consent in the College was conditioned by the entry of the amendment into play on my part. Here you go, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6318	Dear gentlemen, indeed we are entering needlessly into additional complications in the work. First of all, the MPs who say, what it says is not what you say. That's one thing. It's like that and it doesn't get away with anything. Other than that, no one here will understand what the problem is. I'm not here to show our wisdom or our skills. But apparently, gentlemen, if there is a possibility of legal interpretation what a colleague calls maneuvers legal. And what if there is, there's something I can do, it's like that. Oh, dear fellow, there's a right to prove yourself right or wrong. If you want to hear it, you can, if you don't, of course you don't have to, but the fact is something else. We won't be here, Mr. Chairman, we won't be here to plead on the amendments. We here need to make a statement about the one where you disagreed.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6319	That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6320	And where you disagree is the character of the amendments tabled. There is a problem, and I ask you two things – yes, there is really patience to help each other get out of this loop. So I think that we need to be clear whether Mr Bilbija's amendments are being tabled in accordance with Article 94 of point 3 of point a, that means they're offering new aspects, because no one is arguing that the debate is under way. We're not the one who finished the debate. It's the debate. So if Dom says they're new aspects, they'll be thought to be. If he says they're not, it'll be rejected. And now 72 of us are outsmarting about it so much. Let's get this sorted out and then vote on the report, after that. Now, I ask you to do it in that order and let's save ourselves from this torment.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6321	There's no vote on the report, but good. It's about the law, not the report. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. I understand everything. The vote is whether or not the College has not agreed with the House must make a decision and then vote on the law, not the report. Yeah, everything's fine. Mr. Malkić. And I'm sorry, sir. Here you go, Mrs. Osmanović. Excuse me, Začiragić. Allow and the chairman has the right to be a little confused.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6322	We're changing the thesis again. When something is untimely, it cannot be considered. And there's no talking here about considering the amendments. So there's no talking about considering new aspects. The amendments have not been made, have not been made to the Commission, have no amendments, and that is the objective of Article 94. So the College, with all due respect to my College, couldn't absolutely consider the amendments and was not in his jurisdiction. Please consider the amendments to the Commission and this House, and the College agrees as the Commission and it was his task to what we have already voted on. The amendments to the new ones that came yesterday on 11.3. could not have been considered because they were neither timely nor could the College have considered them, and I think this is all in some way a detour of water in order to change the essence of the law or not to vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6323	Allow me to remind you of Article Začiragić, paragraph 3, after the debate has started, the chair of the consultation with the vice-president will apply the new amendments only in the following hearings, which means the amendments can be submitted during the session under Article 94(a) during the session and when. The apostle has the right to submit amendments when a member is called upon, or chair, or College to determine. If he has our consensus, or if the chairman considers it, he introduces them into the procedure. Since we don't have a consensus at this point, then we're going ahead of you. But at any moment of debate, amendments may be submitted until the hearing is concluded, calling for Article 93(3) point (a) and point (b). And that's how we've done it so far. I remind you that's how we've done it so far. Please, so do you know how we've been doing in our practice so far?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6324	We've never done this before. This is the first time. Believe me. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6325	How we didn't, at the last session, then the law. Please, well, I don't want to open a debate. It's obvious when the College can't agree that then Dom enters the scene. I'm sorry we have to get to that. I wish the College had agreed. He didn't get along. Please remind you – Article 20 if efforts to reach a consensus fail to make decisions are made by the House. The college didn't agree. I'm asking you to approach the plea. The amendments submitted by Mr. Bilbija were submitted in accordance with Article 94 of Article 3rd subparagraph a. Yes or no? Who thinks he's asking to plead? Who's in? The thing is so legally clear that it is, it is not disputed. Yes, it's legal, it's clean, please. Thank you. Who's against it? It's legal, it's clean. Don't. Like the sun clean. Thank you. Did you make it? Yes, it is. Who's restrained? It was successful against and abstention or to repeat the vote. Please, I beg you, vote on entities. Who's from Republika Srpska for? You don't have to. All right. Please, let's go like this. Presently, the 38 MPs voted for 10 against 24, abstention 3. which means that no opinion has been accepted that amendments can go in the process. The amendments submitted by my colleague Bilbi on behalf of the club are not in the process. Gentlemen, we're moving on to another. We're in another reading. Now we're making a statement about the law. Once again, I'm explaining, so it's not completely clear. My consent as a member of the College that this goes to phase two. He was tied up because I thought the amendments were in the process. But they're not anymore. That was my opinion. The decision of the House is that they are not in the process. We have another law reading. Who's answering for a word? Here you go. Here you go, Mr. Banjac. You're on your way. Are you answering your question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6326	Obviously, gentlemen, I seem to have a little bit of an understanding. The law in the first reading went to the alignment. At your agreement, you warned us here that you did not, or that you had reached conditional consent. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6327	No, no consent achieved.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6328	And you've reached agreement. I'm gonna ask you a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6329	I'll tell you everything later. I'll answer you all.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6330	Wait. Mr. Mirjanić said this way that you have reached conditional consent. If Mr. Bilbija's amendment is accepted. I just want to ask. I didn't come out anything. Don't be mad. I want to get this straight. We're gonna get into some kind of trouble again, and you wouldn't want us to get in trouble. I understood Mr Mirjanić as follows that he gave consent to the conditional if he accepted that Mr Bilbija's amendments had been submitted in accordance with Article 94(3)(a) that he had given consent accordingly. Unless it's accepted that he didn't give consent for that. Is that true, Mr. Mirjanić, please answer here.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6331	I'll answer when you ask a question. Here you go, I'll answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6332	Yeah, sure, I know where to go and I'll go. But please, but I'm asking that there be no further complications.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6333	No problem. I'll give you an answer. That's what I said for the reason that you're going to ask after my answer Mr. Banjac and any MP to come out, but I don't think it's appropriate for us to have a dialogue for me to sit here and you for the pay phone. It's a technical question. So here's the deal. What's the word? At the meeting of the Colleges, we discussed it and the misunderstanding was between my colleagues Avdić and me. Please don't come into my word. What are you getting into? Sead, you'll get your word after me, but let me finish. Here you go, Mr. Bilbija, Mr. Banjac. That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6334	Gentlemen, either I'm sitting next to you or you come out here and speak like messengers. I'm asking you to come out for a pay phone, because you're warning me too, and I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6335	Mr. Banjac. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6336	I beg you if you speak as chairman or as a member.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6337	I'll answer when you sit down.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6338	I'll go out again.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6339	Well, of course you'll get out. You asked what happened at the college session. That means you asked me a question as chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6340	Not as a member of the Coordination Commission. It's second you as a College have business acting as a Commission... [[speaks from place]]
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6341	But if you care so much, I'll be very happy to go out for a pay phone. It's easier for me because Mr. Avdić can't throw it at me. So this is how it flows. You know that according to your attention, please, because then you're going to ask a series of questions, and I find this a very interesting case in our practice, and I'm sorry that it came to this position that the College couldn't agree. I wouldn't interpret why that is. I'll leave it for that time after. So here's the deal. You know that the College can't make a conditional decision in terms of, it can't make a conditional decision on whether consent has been reached, legally it can't, but in fact it can. What's this about? At the college session, I'm talking about the relationship between my colleague Avdić and me on this issue, because there was a dispute that happened that the two of us were both for the release of the law into the procedure and for the release of amendments. That was our position at the College session. My colleague Avdić informed me this morning that he was withdrawing his consent to the amendment. So I don't think it can be said here that it was my parole, because it can't go, formally legally it can't go conditional. I have to be objective and say that things are going well, although it would be good for me to say that formally legally it can be conditional. In my opinion, legally, it can't be conditional, but it could be some kind of deal. A kolega Avdić has the right to change his mind. I don't question his rights. I've never been in a position to change before. Maybe someday I'll be in a position to do the same as my colleague Avdić. So I'm not contesting my colleague Avdić's right to change his mind, it's his right and I don't want to create a problem. They just are, now you know the facts. We have a statement from the House and I suggest we continue to work towards it. Here you go, Seade. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6342	Respecting what Dr. Mirjanić's chairman says, but the paradigm of the functioning of the College is practically reduced to what time is going on at full improvisation and this can seriously endanger this decision-making system. Which means the procedure isn't respected. We were just two members of the College, Mr. Ljubić wasn't. Before that, we reached the agreement of the law. I'm going out the door, and I'm shouting you want to accept those amendments to the Željko Bilbija. I'm respecting Bilbi as club president without any last thought and agreeing to leave the office. When I read the amendments, it was another law and I'm really sorry. And that's why I asked Željko if it's possible or to take a five-minute break to try to agree, because the amendments are completely changing people's Statistics Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which means that consent is quite clear, achieved without any controversy, and only at the stage when the meeting was over was simply we had this part of the relationship.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6343	Now you know the facts. I think all the facts are familiar. Here you go, Mr. Tošić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6344	In the name of the club, we're asking for 10 minutes so that you can get along and agree to no longer harass us with the godfather. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6345	You're looking for a break of 10 minutes. When a club asks for a break, it has the right to a snail. Please proceed 25 to 7. [[10 minute break]] I have two information for you. As far as the college's position is concerned, she's the same as you heard at the session, and there's no news. The second thing, which the College suggests is that we do more finally with the 9th point, and that from the 10th to the 14th points we continue our work on Friday at 10 o'clock. So, an hour earlier than usual. I repeat at 10 so there won't be any oversight. Since the session is being continued, please, no calls are being sent, so no calls are being sent to the MPs, we will continue the session Friday at 10 o'clock. After that, when we finish this session, we'll have that session scheduled for Friday, it's the 22nd session, and we can finish all that work on Friday. Is there any more information you need? It's not. Thank you. I'd like to ask the Presidents of the Commission to make suggestions, if that's all right with you. I ask you to adjust so the House of Representatives can start working on Friday at 10. I'm asking you Friday at 10. We don't need commissions for the session to work. Since it's a session sequel. We have everything set up and we start Friday at 10 to finish all the big work that's waiting for us, because we have two sessions to continue this and a new session on Friday. Gentlemen, so we've come to, we've been to the statistical law. The amendments were not accepted. They voted on the amendments, they weren't accepted to enter the procedure. So, amendments are not voted on. We have another reading of the statistical law. 77 Who's picking up the call? It's about the statistical law. Here you go. Niko one's answering for a concussion. I'm putting the bill on statisticals to the vote, that's a second reading. Who's in favor of the law, the adoption of the law? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you. Obviously, an entity vote is needed. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Who's from RS for? Thank you. I'd like a voter's report. The vote of 38 MPs - 27 for - against 7 - abstentioned 4 MPs. By entities. For the Federation of BiH 24 from RS – 3 for. The law didn't get the necessary majority. He's going for a better match. Here you go. Moving to point 7. The college's proposal is to go to point nine, so at point 10, that's what I told you to stop. Ad.7. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on a report by the Commission on human rights, immigration, refugees and asylum on visits to a number of municipalities You have received a report from the Commission. The College did not reach agreement on the proposal for a conclusion. We have a vote here. Is anyone answering for a word? Niko. We're approaching the voting act. In accordance with Article 65(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Who's in? First we have to vote yes and against? Report by the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum on visits to a number of municipalities. The college didn't achieve consent. Therefore, there was a dilemma here whether to vote yes or no. I think you're voting against, and here's the interpretation of Secretary Dom to vote yes and no. I think it's only against here. I agree, but let's just consult a little bit. Okay. No Marija. Please don't make it too difficult for us to vote yes. Who is for the Commission's report on human rights, immigration, refugees and asylum? Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? We have to go to an entity vote. Who's from the Federation of BiH against? No Niko? Who's from the RS against? Did you manage to count them? There's no decision. At present 30 and vote 38 – for 25 – against 11 – abstention 1 MP. There were 11 MPs from Republika Srpska against it. Therefore, the decision has not been made. A report by the Commission on human rights, immigration, refugees and asylum has not been adopted. 78 We move to the 8th point of the agenda. Ad.8. Proposal for a law on the use and protection of the Red Cross/Cross sign and the name of the Red Cross/Cross Society – second reading The proposal for this law was adopted in the first reading of the 20th session of the House. You, gentlemen, have been delivered a report by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which is responsible for this law. As you have seen, the Commission unanimously adopted the text of the bill in the proposed text. There were no amendments to the bill. This is a second reading. Please, who's answering for the word? Niko. The debate is over. Please approach the vote. Who is for the Red Cross/Crying Society Act? Who's against it? Opposite 1. Who's restrained? Niko. I'd like a voter's report. Attending and voting 38 MPs – for 37 - against 1. There's no need for an entity vote. I find that the proposal for a law on the Red Cross/Cross Society of BiH is, I apologize, I begin. Proposal for a law on the use and protection of the sign of the Red Cross/Cross and the name of the Red Cross/Cross Society in the second reading adopted. I made the lapus. Is it clear to everyone what my lapus was in? Don't let it be after the trouble. The problem is the laws are very similar names. We're going to the point. We have to go to the alignment. Please form a committee for reconciliation because it is different from the text of the House of Peoples. There were amendments in the House of Peoples. I'd like some suggestions. Three members of the commission who are due to agree on the Law on the Use and Protection of the Red Cross/Cross Mark and the name of the Red Cross/Brussels Society at the point of the 8th agenda. Proposed members of the committee, please. You may, Mr. Bjelobrk.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6346	Dr. Crescent. Buturović, Dr. Lolić doesn't have any doctors, Violeta Kamberović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6347	Does Dom accept Mr. Bjelobrk's proposal? Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Abstained. I'm being unanimous. Just give me the result of the vote. 38 votes – 38 for. We have to have it right for the record. Congratulations to the members of the Commission. Moving to point 9. Ad.9. The proposal for a law on the BiH Red Cross Society – first reading – is proposed by the Council of Ministers, delivered to MPs on December 13th. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 28 December. You've received the report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission and we need to make a statement. So, first reading. It says here that the Constitutional First Commission unanimously adopted the text of the Bill on the Society of the Red Cross. We're moving on to a principle debate. 79 Is anyone answering for word? Niko. I'm finding the debate closed. I ask the MPs to plead with the vote. I repeat the proposal for a law on the BiH Red Cross Society – first reading. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? - One against. Who's being held back? - no one please result in a vote. 38 MPs voted – 37 for and 1 against. There's no need for entity voting. I find that the proposal for a law on the BiH Red Cross Society was adopted in the first reading. Gentlemen, this is where we interrupt the session. I'll be back on Friday at 10:00. On Friday, after this session is over, we will have a scheduled session on which the Council of Ministers is scheduled. Thank you, gentlemen. The seat was interrupted at 7:10 p.m. 80 Today's sessions are not attended by MPs, Zoran Spasojević and Kulenović Salih due to the disease. We have a quorum to love. The service will determine exactly. There's no question that we have a quorum. There is a service to determine the exact number of MPs. I suggest we get back to work. We've stopped at the tenth item of the agenda. Ad.10. Proposal for a law on administrative procedure – first reading. The legislator is the Council of Ministers, the law was passed on 13 December 2001. The First Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on 28 December 2001. The proposal for this law is in charge of the Constitutional and First Commission, whose report you received at the 20th session of February 12th o.g. Gentlemen, before we open the debate, would you like to speak to the House of Representatives before we open a question for the representatives of the Council of Ministers about the draft law on the initial procedure? No, I don't. I ask the President of the Commission if he wants to address the House. No, I don't. Thank you. We're opening a debate here, gentlemen. I remind you that the Constitutional and Legal Commission, according to a report that we received unanimously adopted the text of the proposal for a law on administrative procedure with the amendments adopted. Who's answering for a word? Niko. I'm closing the debate. I ask the messengers to plead. Who is for the bill on administrative procedure in first reading. First reading. Thank you. Who's against it? Niko. Who's restrained? Niko. Unanimity. I'd like a voter's report. Present and vote 38, I apologize to 31 MPs – for 28. No Niko against, no one abstention. Three MPs have not voted and are present. I ask the MPs to participate in the vote in the future. Depending on how anyone wants for or abstention, it's easier to keep records. Obviously, the law was passed. There's no need for an entity vote. The vote was unanimous. Thank you very much. We're going to the 11th point of the agenda. Ad.11. The proposal for a law on the holidays of Bosnia and Herzegovina-proposer of the House of Peoples – the first reading today is our first reading. The proposal for a law was sent to MPs on 9 October 2001. We received the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission on 7 November 2001. On 23 January 2002, the College approved an extension of the deadline for reviewing the law in the commission phase by 15 days. The Constitutional and Legal Commission has submitted a report to lawmakers on February 12th of the current year. We have before us the law on BiH lawyers and a proposal for a bill on the holidays of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 81 It is the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Does the President of the Constitutional Legal Commission or anyone from the Commission want to speak? No, I don't. According to the Rules of Procedure and when the Proposer is not the Council of Ministers. In this case, it's the House of Peoples. A representative of the Council of Ministers can contact the House if that's what he wants. No, I don't. Let's go to debate, gentlemen. A debate on Bosnia and Herzegovina's holiday law. Whoever answers the word - first reading. A discussion of principles. Niko one's answering for a word. - I'm closing up the dispersal. Gentlemen, we have before us a proposal for a holiday law. We have a proposal from our commission to the Constitutional and Legal Commission. We should make clear on the Commission's report on the proposal for a law on the holidays of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or on the proposal for a law in the first reading. Who's in? I ask the MPs not to land unless the Service has determined. Did you make it? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Niko. Whether or not an entity vote is required. I think it is. Please vote on the entities. Which one is the RS MP for the Commission's proposal, the BiH holiday law? I'd like some MPs from the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? I'm making a vote. Thirty-two MPs present voted for 21 MPs – against 9. So, out of 30, there's a lot of them. No Niko was abstentioned. According to entities, the Federation of BiH for 12 – RS for 9. Accepted in first reading. Ad.12. The appointment of members of the House of Representatives committee instead of Members of the Medihe Filipović Gospođa Mediha Filipović was an MP. After that, she went to the new BiH ambassador's office in Sweden. It is now necessary for us to choose other members of that committee instead. Mrs. Mediha Filipović was a member of the Party for BiH Club. Under the agreement of the MPs' clubs, these are places belonging to the BiH Party's MPs and I will read the proposal of the Party's MPs' Club for BiH. I'm asking my colleague, Cupl, that if there's a mistake in intervening. So, from the Party for BiH MPs' club, we received a proposal that the Foreign Affairs Commission should elect Muhamed Begović to choose Mirsad Purić in the Committee for Gender Equality. Is she all right? Thank you. I suggest we approach the vote immediately. Yes, sir. Here you go, Mr. Borić. I didn't notice you called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6349	In front of the Party of Democratic Action MPs' club, I would run for a member of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6350	I'm sorry, that's not the point of the agenda. Point 12, Mr. Borić. It's obviously a misunderstanding. But it's no problem. 82 So, I put the motion to select Muhamed Begović at the Foreign Affairs Commission. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Unanimity. Of the 33 MPs who voted 33 for it. A unanimous candidate has been elected. To elect Mirsad Purić in the Committee for the Equality of Gender Equality. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? It's unanimous again. Please report. 32 MPs voted – 32 for. I find that Mr Mirsad Purić has been elected to the Committee for Gender Equality. These are our committees at our home. The next point, is point 13. Ad.13. The appointment of a member of Bosnia and Herzegovina's parliamentary delegation to the Council of Europe in place of Mrs Medihe Filipović, the Party for BiH MPs' club, suggested that Mrs Emina Zaćiragić be appointed to the Parliamentary Assembly delegation at the Council of Europe. Isn't that right, Mr. Cuplov? Thank you. Mr. Borić, are you looking for a word now? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6351	So, the Party of Democratic Action MPs' club proposes in this commission Dr Halid Genjac as a possible candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6352	Please brief consultations. Just a little bit, please. I'll give an explanation but please Mr. Ljubić, Mr. Halid Genjac is a member of the second, a member of the House of the People. He's not a member of the House of Representatives, and I don't think, for a formal legal reason, that proposal can be accepted. Here you go, Mr. Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6353	I thank the chairman, since I heard today's second proposal, I think BiH is represented and the delegation is elected to both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm afraid we don't have a choice today. I think you should meet, at least both colleges, perhaps with club presidents and agree to that question. I think this is a question, regardless, and I don't think we have some default scheme that needs to be from one home this much from another home this much, I think we need to make more sure that it's a delegation, a single delegation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and, if there are more proposals, and especially if they are from different homes, I think we need to postpone this issue and find a solution. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6354	Thank you. I'll give it now, I can only give one piece of information, so I'll give you my word. Before that, we have a formal question. I have been informed that it is realistic to expect BiH to be admitted to the Council of Europe, i.e. the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and I have the information that we should then choose our delegation that will now have a second status, will no longer be an observer delegation, but will represent a full member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and that we must elect five deputies there. I ask you gentlemen MPs, who are in our delegation in front of the House of Representatives at the Council of Europe, do you have information about what I said. That a new delegation should be elected after the reception. It can be an old composition, it can be new, it's a formal question. Here you go, Mr. Neimarlija. You asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6355	Madam Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, guests, I had in mind what Mr. Chairman said, that this is a complete delegation to the Council of Europe, for a short time, because we expect, of course, that we will be admitted to the Council of Europe and that there will be elections, re-election of a permanent delegation in the Council of Europe. For my part, of course, I have nothing against the party's proposal for BiH and Mrs Zaćiragić as a candidate for this existing delegation. However, I would remind my fellow MPs, that in the election of a delegation in the Council of Europe, this home, I am afraid that I cannot find another word, played by the House of People, and hence the proposal and the SDA Club were with a colleague Genjac from the House of Nations, because as you remember we voted in this House for a delegation in the Council of Europe, after the agreement of the parties in our home, by which, holding the logic of the Council of Europe itself, the delegation should have reflected and expressed its configuration in Parliament and, the agreement was reached in the Council of Europe delegations as an MP in the order of the SDA, as the party who objectively had the most votes in the BiH elections. This did not happen, because the House of Peoples challenged, Mr. Avdić, you remember, of course, our agreement, contesting our agreement, challenged one of the basic principles on which the Council of Europe rests, which is plural democracy and I call on you to have this in mind and perhaps it would be good to accept this proposal from fellow Ljubić. The question of the delegation is not just our home. I believe that our home can propose a member from another home, but in order to remove possible ambiguities, and to finally bear in mind the fact that the Council of Europe is not going on the principle of supremacy in Parliament, but that the Council of Europe, to which it is a fundamental element, is precisely the affirmation of a prular democracy. The delegation should be represented both by positions and opposition, in an appropriate manner, and thus far has not been done. I propose, therefore, and, of course, the SDA will not give up its proposal, that even in this delegation, which will do its duty for a relatively short period of time, it will certainly be its MP. But, therefore, on behalf of my colleagues, I hold this to be moved for the next session proposed by my colleague Ljubić, in order to possibly conduct appropriate consultations between the colleges of both homes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6356	Thank you. Mr. Sead Avidć.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6357	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the Council of Ministers, dear guests, since we had these consultations at the beginning of this election term, means, there in February, in March 84 2001, a relationship between two homes was established. The House of People and the House of Representatives is a representative home, and we agreed that this should be a ratio of 3 to 2 and if the number of MPs in relation to the number of delegates of the House of Nations points to other ratios and relationships. So 3 to 2 is the composition of a delegation of five members of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Council of Europe. There is no reason not to support today's proposal by the Party for BiH to elect MEP Emina Zaćiragić as a member of our delegation in the Council of Europe. After being admitted to the Council of Europe in late April, in early May, we are obliged and obliged to appoint or confirm an old delegation, appoint new five regular members of the BiH Council of Europe, and in this context we will necessarily be referred to an agreement with the College of the People's House on or changing this relationship or retaining old relations 3 to 2nd and appointing, i.e. a confirmation of the old, or a new delegation in the Council of Europe. So there's no real reason, no objective obstacles to waiting or to agree at this stage with the College of the House of Nations. We cannot propose delegates from the House of Peoples, this is their jurisdiction, however, to disrupt the relationship so it would be 3 to 2 in favour of the House of Peoples, which is extremely unacceptable and uninvited from the aspect of the House of Representatives and dimensions from this home with 42 MPs, and, on the other hand, I respect what MP Neimarlija has said, it is necessary to seek to establish such an agreement, that the delegation reflects the political configuration of political parties and parties in both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6358	Thank you, Mr. Avdić. Mr. Tošić, Mr. Cuplov and Mr. Borić came forward for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6359	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, regarding this issue, I can only say as a member of the Council of Europe delegation, that if we are officially admitted now in April, our parliament should confirm a permanent delegation or choose a new one with deputies, what Mr. Avdić said. What we all need to know here, when five members of the Council of Europe were first approved to the BiH Parliament, then officially SDS, SDA and HDZ were in power and it was determined that two other representatives from the BiH Parliament from the opposition join the Council of Europe. It was a rule that we, who were in power at the time, did not take lightly, but it was a condition to send a delegation, meaning with two members of the opposition and three positions. Now that we've come, and that's how it changes, and that's why we're learning democracy to be in a second position, I think it would be logical to keep that relationship going, means 3 to the 2th, and that's why I support the representatives of the opposition, without the position being just as confident today. So, the election is, if Bog should end this year, then let him back it up, because maybe he'll turn round again.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6360	Is that a promise, Mr. Tošić?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6361	That's what we expect. Secondly, what is more important is that if we choose a permanent delegation, we need to know that it will only have a September assembly and whenever elections are made in the states, they also propose 85, or choose their new members. So, if it's four years old and it will, this year, the delegation elected in October will have four years' term of office with five and five deputies. Here's so much as a member of the delegation, if you can explain, he can probably help us all.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6362	Thank you, Mr. Tošić. The explanation is very clear and precise and is not disputed your position and this is the request of the Council of Europe that both the position and the opposition must be present in the delegation. Mr. Cuplov answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6363	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, honourable members of the Council of Ministers, I am in front of the Party for BiH Club, as you have obtained in the context of the replacement of our member at the Filipović delegation, which is the ambassador and is no longer part of this parliament, in this context suggested Mrs Zaćiragić. Of course, all the discussions that have come from this proposal are the result of events in this House and the House of Nations at the very beginning of the establishment of a delegation. I understand and respect the reasons that are presented here and the indeterminates in forming that body, but I don't think they're current at this point. This is a classic replacement and here it is clearly said that the choice of delegation after BiH's accession will be done in a permanent assembly and, of course, probably either by existing or new principles. In addition to the argument, I must point out in that part, that, too, the national composition of the delegation must be respected and, also, gender equality to which it is very much held in the Council of Europe, and in this context, I think that one of the important reasons was also in the decision-making process and in the previous composition for Mrs Filipović. In the context of such thinking, and let's say a series of things, we have proposed to Mrs. Zaćiragić and all this that has been brought here, I understand that an inter-party agreement and an agreement between the two parliaments will probably be with BiH for a permanent member, but I don't think we should enter into that sort of debate, naturally not to slow people down to take advantage of the opportunity and to bring all the inconsistencies and all the inconsistencies about the previous agreement here.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6364	Thank you. Mr. Borić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6365	We tried to stick to the European principle of Parliament's work, and we wanted to fix the mistake that was made at the beginning. From the Roman first, the lawyers know that, if something was wrong at first, it can't stay valid over time. We wanted to make that mistake, and we wanted to defend the European principle and the Evropp that we are working so hard for, so we wanted to help as an opposition party to point out our candidate. I am withdrawing, therefore, Mr. candidate Genjac, and here I propose Amor Mašović so that even mathematics somehow, that mathematics be not a rule but a principle. So, I'm withdrawing Mr. Genjac as a candidate, putting Amor Mašović on the table, and I'd like to ask this house to come forward. I know that the Alliance for Change will outvote us, and even if it does, we will respect that decision, but we are also sending such a message to Europe that we are working so hard to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6366	Thank you, Mr. Borić. Mrs. Osmanović Bahrija. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6367	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow MPs and everyone else here, the last sentence is to send a message to Europe, so here I am to send it. With the regrets of all of you here colleagues who sit that elemental right, and we want to go to Europe, we ignore that our wife in the country is more than 50%. Dear counterpart Borić suggested Amor Mašović. It is interesting to use Amor Mašović when I have to vote against him and in truth, man has earned more than you suggest. I ask you this time to respect our wife elementally first and to adopt Mrs. Zaćiragić's proposal. If you don't do this, I'm telling you that we will be, if you continue this way, forced to search for instruments to protect women's populations in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6368	Thank you, Mrs. Osmanović. Mr. Šarganović is blaming the quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6369	Just because it's about a woman and a woman changing women, I, as far as I know, the crowd didn't even tell us anything. So he can't even complain to us. We really want to be a woman. That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6370	I beg the Members of the Parliament for seriousness, to formulate, gentlemen of the Parliament, we have two things. The first thing is to choose a new member instead of Mrs. Medihe Filipović. We have two suggestions. The proposal made by the Party for BiH Club and the pre-accession which I have already read is Mrs. Emina Zaćiragić and the proposal tabled by the president of the Party of Democratic Action Club, which is that instead of Mrs. Filipović be Mr. Amor Mašović. That's the first one. Secondly, we have a position here, a proposal, and I think we need to make a statement about it, it is our duty, but to make clear that after BiH's accession, we will join the election of a new or confirm the old delegation of five members of the delegation, five deputies, in line with our rules of procedure. Please, let's get to the point of the proposal first. The first proposal we received in writing before the BiH Party's meeting proposes to Mrs Emina Zaćiragić. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Please report, please an entity vote. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Thank you. Who's from RS for? Gentlemen, 36 present and voting for 27 - versus 3 - abstention 4. From the Federation of BiH – for 17 – from RS for 10. It's adopted. Therefore, Ms Emina Zaćiragić was elected a member of our delegation. I congratulate and thank Mr Mašović, who has shown that there is a gentlemen in this assembly. 87 I am putting the second proposal to the vote, which is related to the fact that after BiH's accession, there have been such demands, and that is our obligation to join the election of a delegation in the Council of Europe - five members - five deputies, in line with the Rules of Procedure. Who's in? Who's against it? - Nobody. Who's being held back? Nobody. I find it unanimous 36 for – against no one, abstentioned no one, unanimously and this proposal has been accepted. Ad.14. Giving consent to the ratification of the Annex to the Treaty on the determination of border crossings between BiH and the Republic of Croatia, Anex, is there. We have a report from the Foreign Affairs Commission of our home that gave a confirmed, positive opinion that the annex can be confirmed, approved for ratification. Who's answering for a word? Moko. The debate is over. Please approach the voting act. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? - 1 abstention. Please report. 36 MPs – vote 35 for and 1 abstention. I find that Annex of the Treaty establishing the border crossings between BiH and the Republic of Croatia has been adopted. Ad.15. We have another agreement, and that is, we need to give consent to ratification of the project credit agreement (A project to develop livestock and rural financing between BiH and the International Agricultural Development Fund We have received a report from our foreign affairs commission, which gives a positive opinion, which means that we agree that this project credit agreement is ratified. I'm opening a debate. Here you go, Mr. Buturović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6371	The Honorable Presidency, the Council of Ministers, gentlemen of the delegates. I also told the commission, so here's the thing, the absoluteity of supporting this agreement. I would add to this if I can and ask, if you can't add a bar to enter into a commitment to the Federation Fund that will meet, plan this loan, the credit means that these project areas in Appendix 1 into the Federation and the space from which I come and that's the area of the Horse Community. An explanation, not to be a localist, is the largest municipality in the Federation, in the state of BiH, a municipality that has extraordinary conditions for the development of livestock, a municipality that was an industrial space before the war, with a huge space. I've raised the question of the military industry where there were 6 thousand people, where now 500 people are not working with, with a huge number of unemployed, and given all these conditions and those data that are not negligible, I would ask that this project be implemented as a project space in the Federation. I would also ask the Council of Ministers to support it through the Federal Government to get into this, huge problems down there because of this they have, and they have extraordinary conditions, indeed, extraordinary conditions. I'm thanking you. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6372	Thank you. We can take that as your segist or your suggestions, and otherwise we're not in charge. Thank you. We take that as your suggestion, your suggestion. I suppose they will respect your position and consider your opinion to Mr. Buturović. Is anyone else answering? Mr. Neimarlija. You think we should say, please, let's hear Mr. Neimarlija's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Neimarlija. All right, all right, technically. I ask the Council of Ministers to hear the suggestion of the MPs and to make future corrections to possible weather errors. Is anyone else answering for word? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. I ask the MPs to approach the vote. Who's in? Well, we started voting. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's a little self-sufficient. Niko. I find unanimous – 38 votes – 38 for. Here you go, Mr. Buturević. Go outside and tell the public, it's not a dispute. The decision has been made, but here you go. You have the right as an MP to speak to the public.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6373	I again appeal to vote, now separately and now with this suggestion. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6374	We can't vote on suggestion, but we can direct it. The Council of Ministers is here. Thank you, Mr. Buturović. The public heard. Here you go, Mr. Lolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6375	Since it's one agreement I've voted for with all my heart, I'd just like to expand it now if it doesn't work out, so you know my colleague is only thinking about Horseman, here's my job, in the name of the peasants, or the cattleman from Manjača and Vlašić, to make this appeal. I would suggest this. Since this is an extraordinary subscribing, to ask the Council of Ministers to do one study, together with the entity agriculture ministries on the development of livestock and that especially for mountains such as Manjača, Romanija, Vlašić I do not yet know in the Federation that are important, to bring in a similar loan and that perhaps within a year we have another loan that will then be extended to everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-03-12-0.u6376	Thank you, Mr. Lolić. There are members of the Council of Ministers. They've heard your suggestion and, I suppose, they'll respect your proposal as a proposal from a single psalmist. Gentlemen, we have exhausted the agenda of the 21st session. Before we finish, I'd like to ask you for a minute's attention for an explanation. We're having a 22nd session today. You've got the material. The subject of the session, or agenda, is the election of the Council of Ministers, you have received written material sent by the candidate, appointed chairman of the Council of Ministers by the BiH Presidency. It is up to us today to confirm this or not to confirm the Presidency's decision. The 22nd session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives will be 89 at 13.30 p.m. It is not possible before because of the demands of the SDA Members' Club that we must respect. So now we have a break by 13:30. It's at 13.30 a.m. at the 22nd session. This is the 21st session that's over. Thank you. The seat's finished at 11:15.
