ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2217	Gentlemen, distinguished delegates, envoys, honored guests, I am opening the 17th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In accordance with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliamentary Assembly, that is, the House of Peoples and the decision of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, is the new chairman of the House of Peoples in the coming period, Mr Nikola Špirić. With congratulations and a desire for a successful chairmanship of this high home, I give the floor to the chairman, Mr Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2218	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed delegates, distinguished guests, I am taking the opportunity to thank my colleagues Mr. Šimić and Tokić for the successful leadership of the House of Peoples until today's rotation. I would like to say that we will continue to cultivate the collective way of working, the struggle for Parliament's right to do what we have done so far. We are expected to have enormous tasks, only with you delegates and with all those who agree to the House of Peoples to show that we are able to meet the interests of the citizens of BiH after BiH's accession to the Council of Europe. Today I have the honour to announce the presence of the most parliamentary delegation of the Republic of Slovenia to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Since we are in a protocol commitment to this delegation and that this solemn act in one relaxed atmosphere is being brought to an end, the pleasure of talking to the highest parliamentary delegation has been given to you by delegates. In that sense, I'm announcing a break of up to 12.15 minutes. In the meantime, at half past 12, we had a little cocktail to hang out on, talk about our duties to keep this house in session at 12.15. I'm asking for your understanding. Have fun hanging out till 12 and 15. The protocol will explain where the cocktail is and now the College will hold a brief press conference in the next room. Thank you very much. Dear delegates, esteemed guests, representatives of information, I order that we proceed with the work of the 17th session of the National Assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[PAUZA]] At the very beginning, I want us to realize that we have a quorum for a full decision. Meetings are attended by five delegates from the Bosniak people, four delegates from the Croatian people and five delegates from the Serb people. Mr. Ivo Živković is a first-time leave. So he justified his absence. 2 For the 17th session, we propose the following agenda: 1. Answers to Legislative Issues and Delegative Issues 2. Journal of the 16th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH 3. Report by the Commission of the People's House of Understanding: (a) Law on the Classification of Drug Intoxication, Pshihotropic Substances, Precursors and Plants in First Reading (b) Act on the Information and Protection of BiH – first reading c) Resolution on Health Policy for All Citizens of BiH – Proposed by Mr Spahić D Proposal for the conclusion of delegate Nikola Špirić – that a palmar commission is formed with the task of examining the legal basis for changing the structure of BiH's assets based on the sale of gold in the Banca for International Harmonisations in Basel and establishing possible damages incurred during the sale of gold and transactions with the Central Bank 4. Declaration by the People's House on the reports of the joint committees of the two homes on the achievement of the agreement in the same text of the law on the use and protection of the Red Cross/Cross sign and the name of the Red Cross/Cruise 5. Governance Act – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH - Second Reading 6. Development Credit Agreement No 3531 BOS – Technical Association Project for Development – Proposer of the BiH Presidency 7. BiH-SRJ agreement on customs co-operation and mutual assistance – Proposer of the BiH presidency 8. Report on the audit carried out – submitted by the Office for the Audit of Institutions – Court, State Border Service, Ministry of Treasury of BiH, Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, Ministry of European Integration and Constitutional Court of BiH and Regulatory Agency for Telecommunications 9. Report on the work of the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy of the House of People. Before the changeover on the agenda, you were informed of the work of the Joint Commission on the achievement of the agreement and the same text of the amending and supplementing customs tariff law. The law is considered denied because the Joint Commission has not reached agreement. For information, I would like to inform you that, as a College, we have had a joint meeting with the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers, that an agreement has been reached that following this report, the Council of Ministers will propose a new law as soon as possible, given that it is a very important legal project for BiH, which is a condition for BiH to join the World Trade Organisation and there is a great need for this law to see the light of day in the People's Dima and the Parliamentary House of BiH. The information works, I would also like to inform you that the delegate Mr. Jerko Ivanković submitted a proposal for this same law, but given that the business procedure was not satisfied, because it takes seven days from the submission of the proposal to the delegations, this bill will be found at the next session, but I ask the Council of Ministers that the proposal on which there was a talk to refer to the procedure in order to get a solution as soon as possible. I'm opening a debate on agenda points. Who's answering for a word? If no one is answering the question, I'd like to make a statement by voting on the proposed agenda. Who's for the proposed agenda? I find that we unanimously adopted the proposed agenda. 3 We move to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. Answers to delegates' questions and delegates' questions Answers to delegates' questions have been received, some have not. The answers were received by Mr. Šefik Džaferović, Ibrahim Spahić and Nikola Špirić. Please, when asking new questions, stick to the Rules of Procedure, let the questions be in writing and in the way that it is defined by the Rules of Procedure. Who's answering for a word? Here you go. The word is from Mr. Sejfudin Tokić, the second vice-president.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2219	Chairman, gentlemen of the envoys - delegates, allow me to ask the next question. Which is the Council of Ministers' argument that it completely changes the essence of its proposal for a law on the allocation of funds to a succession, and that, continuously, over the past six months, the representatives of this executive body have made completely contradictory statements on the need to use these financial resources. I am saying this because in the past six months there have been very strong attacks by the Council of Ministers on this legislative project. The stenogram can also record formulations about being and not being the survival of BiH, including some of its entities, and in the media, information is being published at the press conferences of this body that pensioners will fall into a very difficult position unless this law is passed, so that the Council of Ministers only changes three times the requirement regarding the procedure and the content of this law. I think a relationship like this, given all the debate, and we've had hours of debate about this law, requires that now, given the information that has appeared in the media and not yet in this house, that the Council of Ministers has given up its last request to discuss this law, adequate answers are needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2220	I thank the distinguished delegate, Mr. Tokić, of course, in writing we have received this question which will be forwarded to whoever is required of the answer. Who's next to the word? Mr Ibrahim Spahić has the word. It's Mr. Turjačanin's turn.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2221	Mr. Chairman, the guests, I would like to repeat the issue to the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Mr. Mikerević, who failed to respond at the last session, and concerns the Council of Ministers' obligation to go before both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly with a programme of economic policy measures in 2002. Since it is the end of May and after the holidays begin, it is not understandable for me that a year has passed since the joint session of the two homes at which a commitment has been made by Ms Minister for Economic Affairs and Cooperation with the world of Ms Azra Hadžiahmetović and the Council of Ministers to present their economic development programme for 2002 and to present the measures that the Council of Ministers is thinking about in this respect. I have a feeling that mostly, in this past year, it's about signing new obligations and agreements without practically seeing trees, you can't see the way, you can't see the way out of what's called the country's economic development programme, and that's the obligation that's publicly taken over in a publicly transmitted session of both homes. So, I expected that the answer would come to me for this session in writing, given that Mr. Mikerević, as you know himself at that moment, was in one of our sessions last week. He couldn't give a direct answer. Although, as I understand it, he had an interest in answering his word. I, therefore, repeat that question, ask the Council of Ministers to say what kind of economic policy it is, on the basis of a strategy of economic development and social policy, called the Entrepreneurial Society, the Council of Ministers intends to work, whether it intends to come out with any document, which refers to economic policy in BiH at all by the end of its term. Not to explain the importance of this whole complex of questions. The second question, what is the fate of the law on national minorities, on the protection of representatives of national minorities who were adopted in the Dima of the people last year, and in fact the nature of the blockade in the House of Representatives that the law adopted by the House of Peoples cannot be found in any way by the normal procedural structure of the work and action of this assembly before the MPs of the House of Representatives. What is the problem between two homes, and what is the problem with communication between the two responsible communities in order for this job to be done properly? Whether it's a positive answer, whether it's a negative answer, whether it's a request to declare the law. That's the only two questions I'd like to ask you right now, and that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2222	I thank the delegate, Mr Spahić, by asking him in writing that we get the question he asked. The word has been given by the distinguished delegate Mr. Goran Turjačanin.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2223	Mr. Chairman, members of the College, fellow delegates, distinguished guests,... the BiH delegation, as a member of BiH's permanent delegation to the Council of Europe, I have a question addressed to the MIP of BiH, and it applies specifically. As a member of the delegation, I believe that I have experienced an inconvenience in the application of BiH, namely the admission of BiH to the Council of Europe, I want to ask a question. What are the principles and rules of the BiH MIP protocol activity, or the BiH Council of Ministers in BiH's foreign-political representation at parliamentary sessions, specifically here at a Council of Europe session. Whichever is the senior legislative or executive authority. Unfortunately, we had a situation that BiH's delegate body was found in the corridor as the third in line behind a series of advisers, behind a series not to tell the assistant, deputy and all those who came on behalf of the BiH Council of Ministers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2224	I'd like to thank the Turjačanin delegate. Who's next to the word?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2225	Mr. Špirić has a need to ask a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2226	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished delegates, esteemed guests, I have repeatedly asked questions. Unfortunately, I got half the answers or no answers. So, I want to realize that I am not satisfied with the answers to so far asked questions, but as long as I sit in this house, I will ask questions and force those who exercise power in BiH in the interest of citizens to answer questions. 5 The first question to the BiH Council of Ministers and the Office for Audit. Under what law or regulations has the BiH Council of Ministers decided to increase the net salary to ministers and deputy ministers of 840 KM? In the opinion of the Audit Office, whether it is a violation of the rules or a criminal offence. Two. A letter to the Council of Ministers and the Audit Office. Under what law or sublaw has the Council of Ministers of BiH made a decision to pay compensation to individual members of the Anti-Terrorist Team from budget reserves and if it is known that neither the Budget nor the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institutions for 2002 has been adopted yet? The third question concerns the world of ministers. Why is the decision to increase the net salary to ministers of ministers, i.e. the decision to pay compensation to individual members of the Anti-Terrorist Team not published in official messengers? Four questions to the Council of Ministers. I ask the Council of Ministers for information on how much damage BiH has done by selling gold and subsequent transactions with the Central Bank of BiH, the conversion of dollars to the euro. To make this information transparent, given the curriculous differences in dates, that it is simply not the first speculation in the public, thereby not causing additional political damage to BiH. At the end of the fifth question to the Council of Ministers. Will the Council of Ministers of BiH also ask the Anti-Terrorist Team to inform the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH about its activities? I ask written answers to questions, and I will remind you that the decision to increase the net salary has been made, so it was made 27.6.2001, and the decision to pay compensation to the Anti-Terrorist team in 28.2.2002. These are decisions that have not been published and should have been published and I am looking for, therefore, the report and the Council of Ministers and Offices for the Review of BiH. Thank you very much. Is there anyone else to answer for? There isn't. I understand we've exhausted the first item of the agenda. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. Ad.2. The adoption of the minutes from the 16th session of the House of Peoples who answer for the word? There's no one here. Please make a statement regarding the record. Who's for the adoption of the 16th session? 14 for. I understand that we unanimously adopted the record, no one against, no one abstention. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. Ad.3. Report by the Commission to the House of Nations on the alignment of the law under a) The Law on the Classification of Intoxication Drugs, Psychotropic Substances, Precursors and Plants – first reading You have received a report on the possibility of reaching consent. Unfortunately, we have not reached agreement in the College on this legislative project, and now we have to bring the voting procedure to an end. One member of the Nikola Špirić College was against, the others were in favour, and you know that alignment implies full consensus in the College. 6 So we declare ourselves in accordance with Article 90(2). The Rules of Procedure and now we have to look for the entity majority. I ask the question who is from the Federation of BiH against this law? There's no one here. Who's from Republika Srpska against? - Five against. I realize this law hasn't been passed. Under b) The Law on the Information and Protection Agency of BiH Proposing the BiH Presidency, the first reading You have also received a report from the College on the possibility of reaching consensus. The reserve according to this legislative project in the College was myself, but I would like to inform the House that there are new facts regarding the relationship between the Club of Members of the Republic of Slovenia, the Presidency, the UN, the Office of His Excellency Mr. Klajn. We have reached agreement on a part of the principle that has not found a place in the law that has been the subject of our consideration we try through the amendment phase with the consent of both the Presidency and the UN Office in BiH, to get a political mood, to block this legislative project and create the possibility of it being adopted. I would like to inform you that today's Presidency has justified this session, with an apology that they have obligations previously agreed and, of course, their apology that they are not present at this session today, but I would also like to inform you that the Presidency has accepted these amendments that we are going to make in front of the Serbian delegates' Club. In order for this job to end successfully, we in the College have reached agreement to extend the period for the amendment phase in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So, for the possibility of an amendment in terms of which I have spoken, and in this sense we will submit these three amendments to Article 2, Article 15 and Article 29. These are principles that are agreed and harmonised. I expect that in the second reading, we will have an understanding of these amendments and that the adoption of these amendments will result in the adoption of laws in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. In this sense, I call on delegates from the RS to accept this law in the first reading and to test our will, the will of all of us, regarding the law in the second reading by accepting these amendments, which were subject to the agreement of the House of Peoples – the Presidency, the UN Office which worked on this legislative project. If there is a need for an additional explanation, the UN representatives are there if you want to turn around, but I think that today we could simply shorten that procedure by adopting the law in the first reading with the mood that these amendments, which will today be sent to MPs in the second reading and the time given for the supplemental submission of the amendment, are here. In that sense, I think there is no need to open the debate except that, like all other legal projects in accordance with Article 90(2), we end the voting process. I ask the question who is from the Federation of BiH against the law in first reading? There's no one here. Who is from Republika Srpska against the law in first reading? Mr. Turjačanin. So I can determine that this law passed in the first reading. According to the Rules of Procedure, we are extending the time for the amendment phase and we therefore expect the mood by adopting these admen who, on behalf of the club, will submit to Mr Novaković that we will have this law at the next session. 7 Under c) Resolution on Health Policy for Bosnia and Herzegovina Citizens Proposed by Mr Ibrahim Spahić. You know we've been having an argument, that the debate is closed. That there was no sad mood in the college to bring this legal project into line. We are also obliged by the Rules of Procedure to join the pleas concerning this law. Please, the debate is closed. I'm asking you to stick to the procedure. If we make a precedent on one example, we'll never get out of the procedure. We can't open the debate. No further explanations. I beg you, then, to complete the voting procedure. Then we'll make a deal. So who is from the Federation of BiH against this resolution? There's no one here. Who is from Republika Srpska against the resolution? Two are against it. So I realize that this resolution was adopted in, so the resolution was adopted. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2227	You can't do this because we're done with the agenda. [[speaks from place]] I beg you, then, I will strictly stick to the Rules of Procedure. I will be equal to myself and to you in order to avoid unnecessary debates when the agenda is over. We're done with this agenda. Let's go under d) Proposal for the conclusion of delegate Nikola Špirić to form a parliamentary commission tasked with examining the legal basis for changing the structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina's assets based on the sale of gold in the Bank for International Alignment in Basel and establishing possible damages incurred during the sale of gold and transactions with the Central Bank I also received a report to inform you that there was no concession in the presidency, that the first deputy chairman Mr Šimić was against this conclusion. So there is still no mood to warn a parliamentary commission of various politicisations whether the damage has been done or not, but we need to complete the procedure in accordance with Article 90(2). Who's from the Federation of BiH against? - Five is against it. So there's no need to continue to approach the plea. This conclusion has not passed, and there is no need for us to plead in another entity. 8 We move to the fourth item of the agenda. Ad. 4. Declaration by the People's House on the reports of the Joint Commission of both homes on the achievement of an agreement on the same text of the Law on the Use and Protection of the Red Cross/Cross Sign and the name of the Red Cross Society/Cross of Bosnia and Herzegovina Report of the Joint Commission you have received. The Joint Commission has reached an agreement. The House of Representatives adopted the report under Article 95(2). Rules of Procedure. We should simply complete the plea procedure. Who is for this adopted text agreed by the Commission? So who's in? - 12 So, no against no abstentions. I find that we unanimously adopted a harmonised text in front of both committees. We're moving to the fifth item of the agenda. Ad. 5. Law on administration Proposer of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Second reading. The law was adopted in the first reading at the 16th session. This is the second reading of the Amendment in accordance with Article 89. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations were submitted by the delegate Momčilo Novaković. Does he feel the need to explain the amendment? Is there a need for Mr. Novaković to have needs? Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2228	Dear Chairman, fellow delegates, I didn't get a new text of the law, I don't know if anyone got given that
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2229	I ask you a little attention when the delegates speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2230	We had one conclusion at one of the previous sessions that after the debate and decision of the Constitutional and Legal Commission the adopted amendments to the text of the law and that delegates get such text of the law. I am now interested in whether this law is called a law on administration or otherwise, given that the amendment that has been adopted is a changed name of the law. If so, and thus practically changed much about this law. I'm not going to explain why I put this amendment in here, because I'm very brief in my reasoning and I said it. But what I'm saying is this is the right way if someone doesn't want some law to pass. And gentlemen, this is an opportunity for those who have done this on the Constitutional and Legal Commission to see the result of their work. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2231	Is there anyone else to answer for? I have, of course, a chance to take advantage of, don't mind me, since there's no first or second vice president, I'm speaking from a place if you'll allow me, one brief comment. The practice will be in the future and it will be one of the newspapers that will not be able to enter into the procedure a law whose amendments are not faithfully incorporated into the proposal for a legal text. We received part of the workers in the service of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I must publicly express my disdain that they are not yet ready, able or unwilling to work in the way that the Rules of Procedure has been achieved, but I promise you that in the future we will not bother you with legal projects that are not processed in the manner that the Rules of Procedure requires. But in order not to delay the statutes of the law today, I ask that we simply approach the declaration of amendments. Mr Ivo Divković has come to the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2232	Mr. Chairman, the amendments Mr. Novaković has made are actually amendments to the amendment. Now, if we were to make a statement about Mr. Novaković's amendments, we should really have here a consolidated text of the law that contains in its text amendments that the Commission has accepted, and have become an integral part of the law and then consider these amendments to the bill. Because now, the question is, if this text of the law is to be passed then Mr. Novaković's amendment, I assume that he himself practically has no amendments, because he has asked for the original text more with his amendments. So the question is what are Mr. Novaković's amendments and the other thing we're saying is the text of the law, so we need to clarify this situation so that we can even identify what it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2233	I have one proposal of course which. The word is from Mr. Rodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2234	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I must repeat what I said when we spoke about this law in the first reading. I think I didn't seem to be clear enough when I said and when we passed that law that was very important, because we had an amendment phase before the law in the first reading. With these few amendments, the law has significantly changed the government law. But what's going on? Today on the agenda, we have again the Administration Act, and that is what went through in the first reading when we talked about the amendment phase. Now I'm going to repeat what we can come up with if we get into this procedure. Before that, we adopted a whole series of laws that directly rely on the law in the administration. I mention only one procedural law, it's a general administrative procedure that was practically adopted at the previous session of the House of Peoples, and now that we go into this procedure, we're going to come to an equal absurdity where we're going to have to go immediately to amend and supplement the law on all those procedural laws that we previously passed. I therefore believe that the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina practically and their competences and decision-making on matters from the state level, and I do not know who it is that we need to constantly prove that 10 specific attributes are needed, because, with its own presence, composition and all that is envisaged, it is normal for the House of Peoples to have the power of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to adopt laws under the jurisdiction of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I have an impression, and I have to repeat that there's always some need to see who's in, who's against, and I think these laws are the first to be fundamental laws. Furthermore, these laws allow for the quality of the bill that he has made, or the draft law that the Council of Ministers has sent, to be quite correct, is a law that can be obtained by the majority here. With these changes, I was one of the members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission who immediately pointed to such things. But if we move on, I'm afraid we're not going to make any quality solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2235	I thank Mr Rodić. Is there anyone else to answer for? I'm asking the Secretary of the House what is the legal remedy for this situation so we don't make a mistake about the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2236	If you want to move to other points of the agenda in half an hour, you will get the law, because it is only about significant changes, which is the name of the law in Article 1 of the Law. These are significant changes where the word'state' is entered or to take a short break or to move to other points of...zacon.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2237	I would ask the Secretary of the House and the services that serve the work of this house to be present at the sessions. I will visit you, and I ask for a stenogram that when this law was released into another reading that the question of the name of the law was asked and that it was said to be called as we received today. That's why I ask that question, that there's no need for an amendment. Wait a minute. Sit down. You'll get the word when I give you, don't get excited. But, therefore, there is a possibility that we can see as delegates that the law is called so that we can approach a plea to adopt, or if it remains to be called in another way, then I suggest that we do not declare ourselves to the law, but that those who are obliged to take care of legal projects finish their work to be the first point of the next session. So we're just looking for a business opportunity. If there is such a business possibility, and this is the last time, I can assure you, for the last time, that you received a law on the table that the service did not comply with the commission's phase. Those who receive salaries that are not small here must bear part of the responsibility for observing the work of this home. And if I'm going to try to get a newspaper anywhere, it's that those who observe the work have to work to perfection. If there is no agreement, so that we do not break the law or enter into a plea if there is no mood to pass, I suggest we postpone the plea with the aim of adopting the law, to be the first point of the next session, with the first phase ending as is the Rules of Procedure. We can't keep harassing delegates so people haven't had time. Please note how long it's been since the commission phase. If you'd given me your hand, you'd have written it out to this day. 11 Does anyone have a word? Here you are, sir, the distinguished delegate Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2238	The Rules of Procedure are very clear. At least I have a draft law and I have a record with the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and I have amendment MPs that the MP can file after the commission phase. I have a very clear Rules of Procedure to work on the points of the agenda. Please chair your members of the College and call the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, conduct a ten-minute consultation to continue our work. The agenda item cannot be downloaded in such a way as to be the first point of the next session. We have conditions to work. It's a very important law. All assumptions have been met and the issue of work or not the work of the administration, I would have done the same at the College session. At least I have the material for certain points in 10 copies. You know, every day I get a copy and copies of the copies I got. So you arrange that service in a way that does so outside the session, and now I suggest you call on the members of the College who seem to be attending is only the ked chairman here and invite the chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and consult to continue the work.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2239	I thank Mr. Genjac. We'll behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It's not possible. We'll make a statement about the amendments to the amendments. We'll make a statement in the law, but I told the story with a desire to get to the law. It's no problem for us to end the procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If not, is anyone else answering for a word? Mr. Ivo Divković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2240	I think we can discuss the law at this session today. I hope that we could possibly agree to leave the debate on this law as the final item of the agenda, while professional services bring the text of the law as the Rules of Procedure state what it means is the law in which the amendments of Mr Šimić, which have been adopted on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, have become an integral part of the law. And then we will have the text of the law and the amendment of Mr. Novaković to that text of the law, and we will plead on amendments and on the law, and that will end the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2241	I thank Mr. Divković. I think we can bring the debate to an end. We're going in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Novaković submitted amendments to the Management Act in time. So we're going to make a statement about the amendments. Amendment I – Article 1th indent 1 behind the word 'government' is added to the word 'institutions'. Who's in favor of this amendment? - Five for who's against it? - Four against who's restrained? - 3 The amendment goes to alignment. Let's move on. 12 Amadnman ii – Article 3 at the end of the indent 3. the text ''in accordance with the Constitution of BiH'' is added. Who's in favor of this amendment? - 5 Who's against it? - 4 Who Is Restraint? - 3 Again the amendment goes to the alignment. On the basis of Article 89. Rules of Procedure, if you have? No, it's not. Please, let's move on. I make amendments that came to me in protocol procedures. amandman III – Article 4(1), the words ''in the context of their jurisdiction' shall be added after the words 'the bodies of the administration'. These are amendments that are not accepted on the Constitutional and Legal Committee. Who's in? _________ Let's go plead, please. [[joint discussion from the site]] The amendment, therefore, Amendment IV – Article 4(2) of the first indent of the first indent of the word 'will' is added to the text 'in the context of its jurisdiction'. Who's in? - 5 Who's against it? - 4 Who Is Restraint? - Two, three, go for a match. Amendment V – Article 5, instead of the term 'Bosanski' in use 'Bosnian', for the reason that this constitutional category is not yet defined. Who's in? Who's against it? – 7 No amendment was adopted, no need to receive most of it to go to an entity statement. Amendment VI – Article 7 is amended and reads "in the bodies of the administration and structure of civil servants and employees in the princip will reflect the equal representation of the constituent peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina". Who's in? - 4 Who's against it? - 3 Who Is Restraint? - Three goes for a match. Please, these amendments to the amendments will I get from the Secretary of the Commission? 13 Slowly, you will get your word, just to complete the alignment. Just a little bit to be clear. Let's finish the plea procedure. Here's the amendment. Let's just get this straight, and we'll take a break right away. No problem. Amendment I relating to a change in the name of the law shall be deleted and the original text of the name of the legislator of the Law shall remain. Who's in? - 5 Who's against it? - 5 Who's abstentioned? - 1 goes for the alignment. Amendment II has been adopted whether half of it has been adopted. You can ask for another vote, but there's no need. This does not go to an agreement, the amendment is not accepted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Amendment II on Amendment II to Article 1 of the Law is deleted and the proposed text of Article 1 is deleted. This law regulates the BiH administration's organisation in terms of position, role of structure, authority of the administration's authority's obligations and other issues for the organisation and operation of these bodies in the performance of the administration's affairs. Who's in? - 5 Who's against it? - 4 Who Is Restraint? - 3 Goes for a match. Since the largest number of amendments are going to be agreed upon, I suggest a half-hour break. I think that's enough for us in the College to try to reach a consensus. So, break half an hour. We continue the work of the 17th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. [[PAUZA]] The break I asked for was with the intention of reaching agreement on the amendments that go to Mr. Momčilo Novaković's approval. I would like to inform you that, for the sake of the busyness of a member of the College, we have failed to hold a session of the College that we will implement the alignment in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the deadline defined by the Rules of Procedure and that in that alignment we will inform you, too, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and this we will end this item of the agenda. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.6. Development Credit Agreement No. 3531 BOS Technical aid project for privatisation between BiH and the international Association for Development – Proposer of the BiH Presidency I would like to inform you of an agreement that we did not ratify at the previous session. After that, we had comments, most delegates had an objection. Most of the votes were not accepted, for there was no one from the Council of Ministers and the Presidency as a proposing to interpret this dispute and to answer the delegates' questions. Meanwhile, with the World Bank office, with the Presidency and entity parliaments, we have opened additional talks and we have received instructions, i.e. information that this agreement has been ratified by entity parliaments and we have received an initiative of 14 entity parliaments to deal with an agreement that is of interest to BiH and its entities. The Bureau reiterated this agreement to the Foreign Trade Commission of the People's House. You have received a positive view of the Commission and if we have made any shift by not ratifying this agreement last time, we have clearly warned both the Presidency and the Council of Ministers and the entity government that the House of BiH as a state home or state parliament must be informed of all activities, if it already has a ratification of any agreement. In that regard, given that we have a report from the Commission, I am opening the debate. If anyone comes forward for a word, I'm asking them to run for debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. He's got Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2242	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, I, of course, take with contempt the fact that he is not here from the Council of Ministers, as far as I can see, and especially from the competent ministry that might give us additional information, any questions. From how far I could study this agreement and in talks with representatives of the World Bank, by consulting and discussing the Commission, it is an opportunity to discuss the following. 19.8 million dollars, it's somewhere near 50 million KM, I repeat once again 50 million KM is credited and this loan would be used to make 90% of these funds that for consulting services when privatization, as listed here strategic businesses and sales businesses to strategic investors. It is about 18 companies in RS with an estimated 3.2 billion and 27 Federation companies with a held capital of 8.8 billion. It's a list of companies on the strategic list. Strategic enterprises and it is a large amount, an unusually large amount of funds that has been invested in consulting services. It's mostly foreign experts and hosts of course but mostly foreign experts. Since it is a large number and, according to my information, experience with this type of credit and this type of arrangement is quite scarce and diverse, as far as I have information from some countries in transition such as Rumunija and Bulgaria had similar arrangements. In Romania, the arrangement faces obstacles due to the procedure. There is a different situation in Bulgaria. So there's not enough experience with arrangements that are similar to that of this arrangement. That's one thing. Secondly, we are aware of the need to, indeed, radically reverse actions when it comes to privatisation and the privatisation process, because it is related, of course, to continue to employ job creation, budget filling, etc. and we are aware and it is obviously also a white fact that the privatisation process does not go at that pace and the way we would like it and how it would be necessary and how it requires an existing economic, social and economic environment in BiH. So we have a very important decision ahead of us. It's a lot of money. It's a loan that's in very favourable conditions. It's a non-scene loan. Grace's 10 years old. The party's consultants will be responsible for the domestic authorities. The projects will be implemented by the entities' privatisation agencies and there is the possibility of a co-excessive withdrawal of these funds, as we have been told at the Foreign Affairs and Trade Commission. Therefore, there is even the possibility that, at a certain point, after using a certain part of this loan, even if the arrangement is shown to be inadequate, unfavourable, it does not give the expected results etc. 15 I welcome Minister Mrs Hadžiahmetović, who has just arrived at the session and I will take the opportunity to ask a few questions. Of course, I'm personally peddled by a great dilemma to tell you openly, for these reasons, unknown experiences, the great means are, therefore, one of the questions is. Is the mechanism of submitting the report on, to say the viability, i.e. the effectiveness of this arrangement, the constant monitoring and efficiency of these funds, because the basic motive to create a credit arrangement, was to place more responsibility for domestic institutions in charge of the privatisation process? That's one question. Next question. Will there be any adverse consequences in the event that, at some stage of the project, the arrangements are abandoned if the arrangement is estimated not to produce the expected and desired results? What criteria guided this relationship by entities of funds intended for consulting services to be deployed. By some logic, there are 18 companies with 3.2 billion capital estimated here are 27 companies with estimated 8 billion. If this is, I would say, a commercial relationship, a relationship of consultative relations, would be expected to follow the value of the capital that is at stake and the value of the companies in question, the ratio of these funds intended for consulting services does not follow the value of these rated companies. I understand that some companies are probably more complex. Is it just that, or has some other reasons identified this ratio of funds intended for consultation and these three birds. So, I'd like to ask the Minister to give an answer before my definitive commitment to this arrangement.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2243	I would like to thank the delegate, Mr. Genjac. Also, I would like to welcome the distinguished Minister Hadžiahmetović. Is there any more debates and questions, and I suggest that the minister eventually take part. Mr Ivo Divković has a word and, on behalf of the Commission, Mr Dragutin Ilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2244	Mr. Chairman, I expected the President of the Commission to react first, so perhaps what I will say will be confirmed by the President, etc. In fact, we have here received a report from the Commission on foreign trade policy concerning this agreement, but we have not received one conclusion, which we have established on this committee, which we have agreed to propose with the adoption of, with what it says.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2245	I'm asking the President of the Commission, this concerns him so that his colleague waits later and we can finish it. I'd like to pray, by the way, for maximum concentration when my colleagues speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2246	So, let me just repeat that you have received a report from the Commission but have not received a proposal for a conclusion which we have agreed to propose to the Commission. If there's going to be a suggestion, then I won't waste any more time here, because I want that conclusion to be presented. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2247	I thank Mr. Divković. Who's next to the word? I'd like to read the conclusion before, perhaps the aminist will need to talk about the conclusion. If you don't mind, here's the board's pedsman, Mr. Dragutin Ilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2248	Dear President, fellow delegates, you know that we have been on the Commission for the last time, and all the members of the Commission participated in the discussion, as well as this time, had large reserves when it came to the conclusion of such agreements in which we children and grandchildren are in charge of why perhaps today we are not able to do it ourselves enough and I think that all BiH citizens should know that because of this and the responsibility of those who conclude such agreements is great and that it is quite logical that we in Parliament are asking that Parliament to give its opinion. Perhaps before such agreements are concluded, they would seek Parliament's consent, because when the agreement is signed, it remains only to be ratified by Parliament. Also, as a product of such discussions, we now have always a brief summary of the opinion of the competent ministry regarding these projects. When it comes to this project, there was indeed a lot of arguments to refuse ratification of such a project, however, it has been explained to us by the foreign trade and economic relations ministry representative that this loan does not have to be used as a whole, that it can be withdrawn as necessary, means that the agreement is signed for the total amount, but that it does not have to be used for this purpose, if the effects of the first tranche are satisfactory, the credit can be cancelled in some way. As a result, the Commission adopted a proposal to the House to ratify this agreement with the following conclusion. The foreign trade ministry is obliged to establish a programme and dynamics for withdrawal of credit funds by tranches and priorities in co-operation with the BiH Ministry of Treasury Institutions and entity finance ministries. A plan to implement these funds, as well as the involvement of foreign experts with defined execution deadlines. According to the realizacic tranche, the first tranche is missing here, the ministry will form information for the entity assemblies and the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, after which parliaments would give consent to withdraw the next tranche of credit. So, in this conclusion, we actually sanctioned what the debate was about and what the bilfo was all about. Perhaps it would be good if now Minister Mrs Hadžiahmetović told us whether this conclusion could be realised like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2249	I thank Mr. Ilić's delegate. Is anyone else answering for word? Mr Ibrahim Spahić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2250	First of all, I would like Mr. Chairman and Madam Minister to support the position of the Commission, which may be a little late but has established a new kind of relationship between the Council of Ministers, the corresponding ministry and our commission in charge of a particular area. In fact, everywhere today, it is obvious in public in BiH that whoever is dealing with these problems whether it deals only politically, whether it has been given the opportunity to inform about these 17 issues as to how these privatisation partnership agreements are realised and there are two models. One model is that it's a donor of a certain institution either the World Bank, before the USAID, I don't know which other associations, and the other is that it's... through a loan with such obligations as are from this contract that we're supposed to ratify today. First, it's always better for the state, because it creates conditions for us not to create obligations for the future generation or for the BiH state. The second is mainly dictated by the conditions that are being set up in a way that corresponds to a partner who is objectively in a position to dictate conditions, regardless of what we think and how we have been cooperative in co-operation with World Organisations such as the IMF and the World Bank. On the other hand, the transition between certain institutions of the world that are engaged in BiH and countries in transition and transfer is known. interest from one association to another, which, of course, is politically recognizable in the positions of individual countries in transition that have already experienced this kind of technical assistance, which the country itself is paying for. Which is justifiable. Why would someone give you advice for free or why someone would participate, do your job, which you should have done yourself. If you were able to work alone, if we were able to work alone, we wouldn't need someone to hire and pay. Of course, it's always better to have the resources alone and pay for the one you order to do like you used to, let's say, these traveling experts from Mr. Saks and others solved many economic problems of different countries. But in BiH, one question is what kind of economic philosophy it is, what kind of vision of BiH's development today, we can speak if we are actually going to be in some way a partner who will not be able to dictate even the elementary chronicle of the results of the work and the whole of the work that is related to a particular contract. This in order to bypass some, as it is a beautiful thing to say, how it has been liked lately, and on occasion corresponds to the profession of Dr. Ilić and Dr. Genjac, it is about us saving our own, to tell the goat by creating conditions to pass on responsibility to others to do a job for us, of course, well paid, but a job that we did not objectively organise in our society. This is a fundamental problem to point out and it should be particularly publicised, without some large complexes and burdens. The other thing is that under this firm of these contracts usually comes a message which is from another plan that big investors will one day be interested in entering a particular privatisation process, entering new technologies etc. Since all this applies here to strategic enterprises, recently a famous story has come from the former chairman of the Council of Ministers of the current president of the Privatisation Fund in the Federation of BiH, Mr Božidar Matić, and as far as I know, debate is constantly being held in another entity on the issue. So, in general, in BiH. So, what's the fate of our privatisation, anyway? What exactly are we dealing with? Where are your paths? Where is this program essentially privatizing? You know that there has been a huge debate in Parliament about how it should be done at the state level, that it should have been different to approach the whole process, since it has now been privatised by Elektroprivreda, and somewhere it is... vouchers, now it... as a policy to do with certificates, for example. in the Federation. Since the time of great decisions is conditional, then time and great responsibilities. That is why I think it is a very delicate relationship now between Parliament and the Council of Ministers and the specific ministry, and if we are to assess today that it is satisfactory to establish parliamentary control over the realisation of this Treaty and whether this is even possible when it comes to an emergency arrangement, it should be made quite clear. If it remains only in the power of the Commission, which is bound by the Rules of Procedure to monitor the work, which is this commission led by Ilić in the House of Peoples. I don't know who runs the House of Representatives adequate committee, but it could be a different relationship between the government and Parliament. 18 I must say that, therefore, the government's behaviour, or Council of Ministers and Parliament, would be completely changed. So, there would be no question, at all, of what stage it was discussed on the commission. It would be normal for a parliamentary committee in charge of the Rules of Procedure to be in the process of a job like this. What I am concluding here is that I have no particular claim to apply this proposal from the Commission, but we need to clarify what we want. Are we going to have our body, which is in charge of the turret, which, normally, the Council of Ministers and the relevant services of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry, would be obliged to keep it in constant... informing him of its work and they inform us, by this request, actually requires some super control and other status regarding this ministry. Whether we're looking for a new, practical parliamentary commission or we think it's possible to change the relationship between the Prlament and the Council of Ministers. That's one question that's a matter of the relationship between the two bodies of the legislative and executive, because we practice, we take responsibility for this. And the second question is whether Mrs. Hadžiahmetović can today, it would be the most important for us, to answer the fact that the public is generally known that the privatisation process is blocked in BiH and to talk about a favourable business environment and the story of new investors and the responsibility that we will fully change if we approve this money with an arrangement of foreign experts. Whether it actually provides any guarantees for changes in the international investment policy in BiH or not, and what a guarantee it is, which is partly derived from this contract. Because this isn't one contract, it's one part of probably the package the ministry is working on, I guess, in that part we would have to get as the House of Peoples and also the House of Representatives as well as Parliament's clearer answers to where politics is even economical in this area of BiH. I'd like to thank you, Mr. Chairman, and express my pleasure to hear today, which we haven't heard from the Council of Ministers in a long time. We don't have one complete information that could allow the House of Peoples to assume responsibility for policymaking in an area, at least for the part that belongs to it, which is... laws, etc. And finally is there a time when we'll be able to see the result of the work? Will the House of Nations be able to determine today along with this conclusion for some time, some time when it will be reconsidered.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2251	I all think Mr. Delegate will end up not warning him even if the time is broken. I guess the time will come for us to stick to the Rules of Procedure, all of us. Mr. Novaković picked up the phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2252	Dear fellow delegates, I would actually call this loan an agent's commission or a commercial or agency commission, which we need to pay to get our strategic companies out of the way to someone. Since the situation in which these companies are now located, technologically, organisationally, and even humanely, does not convince us that they can have a more significant price on the world market, then we seem to be in charge of getting rid of them very cheaply. I'm not convinced that the letter from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and the argument that has been made here suggests to a sufficient extent that we should be in charge of this amount. If we look at the argument under regular number 2 that allows governments to engage domestic and international sales managers, who would be in charge of identifying interested investors and then they would exchange information with each other, that is to say, these skills would be passed on to foreign customers and domestic skills would be a single seminar that, unfortunately, has a high price. I do not believe that we will remove barriers to the rapid sale of businesses, by finding and giving a certain commission and remaining a great responsibility for these companies. I know this isn't enough means to get rid of that responsibility in this way, but also 19, this way we're not going to do anything about it, and that's one of the most important factors why these companies can't find their customers. I'm gonna stay at the position I took last session and I don't think there's anything I should have arranged before all the aspects are considered. If someone made a deal, then they had to deal with it seriously enough, so seriously enough, with enough guarantee of the results of the deal. I didn't see here that I had those elements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2253	Who else is answering for a word? Next to the word Goran Turjačanin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2254	Dear Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, Madam Minister, I have in front of me, and this is not the first time that we have ratified something consecration, something in fact that is somehow signed and not put into office. I haven't been to the Foreign Trade and Foreign Policy Commission's meeting when... on a separate approach to this agreement, i.e. that would be factually phased if I didn't say what Mr. Technical difficulty said... ratify this agreement. However, I sincerely hope that in the realisation of the items related to these agreements, which most of the items refer to the consulting part of the project to implement this development loan, they will be transferred to domitile resources, meaning, using it to deny the original, not to say the intellectual potentials in this area which are therefore experts. I suppose this development loan agreement is not a final and dead letter on paper, but... a certain and additional potential and annexes that would give as much space as possible, not to say to the dominant intellectual spheres in the management and economy that would be included in these implementations of this development loan with the funds that would be made available to this credit arrangement. This is some first suggestion to the Minister and all those ministries that the President of the Foreign Trade and Policy Commission has apostropheed behind this pay phone. Personally, I believe that the agreement may in a clumsy way only define in some of its preambles, which are related, so that people say apples and pears, because the privatisation project in two of our entities goes completely over and through different modes, and in an under-quality way does not apostrophe exactly and diversity in privatisation in the proposed text of the development loan agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2255	I'd like to thank the Turjačanin delegate. Mr. Jerko Ivanković has an esteemed delegate.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2256	Dear Chairman, fellow envoys, distinguished guests, I believe this agreement should be seen through two parts. One part is credit under favourable conditions, it is necessary for BiH, and the other part is knowledge that BiH is also very much needed. In BiH, we import everything from Chihuahua and hammer to blood and chickens, and we need to import money and knowledge and to produce this money and knowledge in BiH for the BiH market and for export. I believe that we need to ratify this agreement and ask the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to also prefer future imports of money and knowledge to BiH, which will employ 20 people in BiH who will fill our budgets and our funds and reduce imports of finished products, povertying the country over a billion KMs a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2257	I thank the delegate Ivanković. Is there anyone else to report for the hearing? There isn't. The Honorable Minister will give the necessary clarifications, and it seems to me our respite to bring about the adoption of this agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2258	I thank the chairman, allow Mr. Chairman and the distinguished delegates of this esteemed home to begin by congratulating the chairman of the presidency, that is, taking over the presidency of this House. I hope that the mandate before you all will be as successful as it was in the case of his predecessors, who will remain recorded, among other things, and after the adoption of the Electoral Law, upon the entry of BiH into the Council of Europe, and I hope that we will experience one big experience at the time of Mr Špirić's chairmanship. I take advantage of all of you to congratulate all of these assumptions about the many obligations that follow in front of BiH and I hope that, we all understand that it is not the time of euphoria, congratulators etc. but obligation, fulfilling the obligations that lie ahead of all of us. I'll take the opportunity to briefly address some questions, if it's not systematic, I ask you not to mind me, if I stay to whom I owe, when I come at least to signal the answer. What we have launched today and during the debate on this credit arrangement is about one radical change within the structure of the government, legislative and executive when it comes to one of the key areas of transition, it is a transformation of the ownership structure. Obviously, we no longer approach privatisation just as it has been in the past, which has caused a lot of problems and slowed down the privatisation process and opened a number of issues and dilemmas, which were once not just assumptions that were very important for the further continuation of economic reforms. In this regard, I also welcome that there have been so many discussions over one credit arrangement, which has been held in support of technical assistance in privatisation. I'll just tell you that she's been on several occasions and on the Council of Ministers, and I know that she's been here and in the Parlment on several occasions. It's good to stop at questions like this, just so we don't accept any obligations, especially financial, credit, no matter how favourable they are. We are talking about a grant here but it is, however, credit arrangements in one way and not to accept passive credit arrangements in one way, not understanding the obligations arising from the BiH authorities to implement it. What am I saying? Any credit arrangement concerning concrete support for privatisation will not be burdened by future generations each. If we from such an arrangement provide developmental effects within BiH. I think that, in part, it will be answered to some questions and dilemmas, and if the credit arrangement presented to you is just as credit, unfortunately, so far it has not been in practice that a project agreement appears as a accompanying document, which I promise you as a resolute minister that in the future and the same way as members of the Council of Ministers, as well as members of Parliament will provide a description of the project, i.e. commitments and foreign ones, in the case of specific experts and domestic experts and domestic authorities, when it comes to concrete privatisation. To answer some questions completely. Mr Genjac, the question of the security of the mechanism, the submission of a report on the viability or effectiveness of this arrangement, I will only mention that we are in this deployment of these competences between the 21 foreign trade ministry and economic relations, which negotiates credit arrangements, i.e. project agreements based on... studies, therefore, on the presence of, or arrangement of, the World Bank in BiH, which is three years old and already expired. So, it was agreed at the time of previous powers, when a credit arrangement was agreed for technical assistance in privatization, that we agreed, among other things, to monitor the implementation of development projects and programmes. So, that business and engagement and the Council of Ministers and Entity Governments are not only completed by obtaining the funds that are intended for it, as we are sometimes, very often in fact, to fulfil many assumptions that we would get some credit arrangement, we will also follow its implementation and possibly in all procedures, which are otherwise common for international arrangements, contracts, international credit arrangements, we will approach any change, or any giving up, which involves a procedure that would certainly involve the institution of Parliament, or especially the House of Peoples. Secondly, I will only mention to you that, therefore, the efficiency, i.e. cost-effectiveness, which is linked to the Commission's conclusion, which presented the esteemed delegate Ilić to be in charge of two resolution ministries in the Council of Ministers of Foreign Trade and the Ministry of Treasury, that together with the finance ministries of both entity governments follow the dynamics and withdrawal programme, i.e. the plan of realisation and engagement of foreign experts. Some of this monitoring dynamics and withdrawing funds is already an integral part of the agreed arrangement. But from what I understand, the point of view of this Commission's conclusion is exactly what we're talking about, or what we're engaged in. That each of the following tranches be accompanied by the practical realization of the effects of spending on funds from the previous tranche. I'll just mention the lessons learned in many other credit arrangements. We have such obligations, which are monitored, even by the World Bank or by some other international financial institutions, to the extent that we have actually fulfilled our obligations, so that we can qualify for the payment of the next tranche, which is sometimes good, knowing sometimes our dynamics that are strange within all BiH authorities, sometimes surprise us in good and sometimes in bad, but it is very important to understand that this monitoring of the dynamics of the spending of funds means actually monitoring the realisation of effects and efficiency, i.e. the execution of these credit arrangements, i.e. cost-effectiveness, or the efficiency of ever entering into such a credit arrangement, after which it can be complemented, changed, cancelled etc. and the usual procedures. Second, will there be harmful consequences if he gives up this credit arrangement, possibly. I don't know if there's only one precision before the answer. Whether your question was concerned would there be adverse consequences if the contract was not ratified or if, during its implementation, the contract was abandoned both. First, I'll mention to you that on this first question, we're sorting out if we don't use these funds, we rock out this three-year case study, this could possibly be, eventually, the most favourable one, but I'm not sure I could possibly be transferred to an unsuspecting case studio, or in the next case study. For what purpose it would be intended, that's another question. I'll just mention to you that today in conditions where it's harder to reach international capital, especially in countries that use the benefits of the IDA conditions, therefore, where only costs are paid, there is 85% and we don't pay commercial credit arrangements on those high interest rates on capital markets, and this kind of funding is becoming increasingly difficult to come by. We are likely to have the next amount of funds that will be granted on the basis of the study case, since we have already jumped to some macro-economic indicators from that round of countries that normally use the benefits of the IDA conditions, most likely that the total amount of funds that will be approved for economic reform and development will be smaller than 22 cases in the last study. So that would be a shame, not to mention not using the opportunity to use favourable credit arrangements like IDA credit arrangements at a time when it's getting harder and harder to get those funds. Secondly, if during the implementation, or implementation of this project, there was a cancellation, possibly a change in this credit arrangement, it would most likely take place on the initiative of the Bosnian Herzegovic side, and this initiative would probably be accompanied by good analysis, gains and losses, or one analysis, but I wouldn't talk about it, because I'm going to the variant that this thing will go well and that it will really be done in a good way. Thirdly, your question, i.e. intervention and guidance, was about the criteria of the arrangement by entities. You handled the number of enterprises 18 in RS and 27 in the Federation of BiH. I don't know if all the delegates of this respected home have received this one explanation and clarification, which was sent to the Komisja on Foreign and Trade Policy of this home. It's here on page 2 of the loan funds that are intended for the following, so there's a specificity, so it's not just the number of enterprises. Here refers to the total allocation of funds based on the needs of the company. 18 and 27 companies, 27 in the Federation, are not equal, are not equal needs for certain goods, consulting services, operational costs and others. Here is exactly the specification and, of course, according to the needs and state of the company in both entities that would be subject to this privatisation. Next, Mr. Ilić, you're presenting a conclusion that I don't agree with perhaps in another formulation, but I just want to tell you that it's a new working mechanism. Of course, we can't do it overnight. I must point out, unfortunately, that so far, capital flows and even these credit arrangements have mostly been followed by moritones by those who gave funds. There was virtually no mortiring within BiH without talking about the effectiveness of how it was used and whether the funds were actually effectively used, regardless of whether it was this credit arrangement or any other. You mentioned that after the realization of the first tranche, you specifically mentioned the Ministry of Foreign Trade to present the report to Parliament that Parliament would then give consent to the withdrawal of the second tranche. I don't know how, or to secure parliamentary control. In any case, I fully agree that Parliament, which ratifys, gives, at the very least, the ultimate consensus, without which there is no use and no funds within BiH, is of course involved, or that there is this mechanism of parliamentary control. Whether this mechanism or some other one I don't know will probably be discussed by some other people, because the realisation, or the withdrawal of these future tranches, will certainly be in a call to someone else, but that the Ministry, in particular the Ministry of Treasury, will intermediately, together with the entity finance ministries, through which the tranches are withdrawn, have insight or analyse in particular what Mr. Genjac spoke about the efficiency of the execution, or the spending of these funds, and the effects of all of it, of course, envisaged in those stages as it is envisaged, don't... Anyway, I think this way, which you mentioned, I don't know if he's really adequate, but sometimes he can slow things down. Maybe there's another way of parliamentary control that wouldn't mean every tranche practically back on ratification. This would mean the practical implementation of procedures for each part of this asset. But in any case, surely there is some way and that we are not talking about the need for parliamentary control of the spending of such funds. Mr Spahić briefly, foreign experts why, your comment because we are unable. I'm not quite sure that's how you presented it, although I probably agree in 23. Here, when it comes to tender privatisation, especially in the following phases, since we have two different privatisation models in two entities that go through different dynamics and different privatisation procedures and rules, sometimes there is a need to find an adequate strategic partner and maybe enter foreign capital in Bosnia and Herzegovina through the privatisation process. Not bringing and not denying or giving less importance to other forms of foreign capital entry into Bosnia and Herzegovina. Whether we're able or not, if you've rated it from a position or given such an assessment of the position of expertise and skills of the domestics in relation to the sides I'll just mention that there are both foreign and domestic experts involved here. What is very important, unlike the previous and most foreign experts, is their participation in the privatisation process not only this control mechanism, i.e. the management process of privatisation or integration into our privatisation models, how important it is now that foreign experts are now the first time, i.e. as provided for by this agreement are responsible to domestic authorities. So far, through GTC and UESED and through all other international community engagements, let's say, from that initial arrangement, when the models of privatisation were made in two entities of engagement (PRICE VOTERHAUS) and the other institutions here this first time that the foreigners correspond to the local authorities, which is another mechanism that is based on the Commission's proposal for a conclusion presented by Mr Miletić. And that is one way to control the mechanism of using withdrawal funds and to ensure the efficiency of this arrangement, or the profitability of this arrangement. Measurement of its cost-effectiveness. Furthermore, it is very important that you mention the change in the relationship between Parliament and the Council of Ministers and we are already working on it. It is very good that parliamentary control is provided not only in this, but in everything and not only in credit arrangements but also in other engagements. I particularly welcome these demands, the initiatives we have heard from this speaker by you, the delegates of this house, because unfortunately I must mention that, in all our engagements, there are sometimes too many times absences of this communication, and in the absence of communication, there has been a culmination of some problems. Not because there was not enough goodwill either by Parliament or by, say, the Council of Ministers and Resort Ministries as sometimes not to look at the whole of the picture and the consequences that may result from some solutions. You mentioned, or asked whether the privatisation process was blocked and whether there was even a story about the new business climate in one way whether or not this credit arrangement is also a credit arrangement, i.e. credit arrangements that support privatisation whether they are a guarantee for a new environment. We've been in the privatisation process for a long time, and you know how she went and how she went slow and for what reasons she went slow and why she sometimes goes back to what she did before, but I'll just mention that in such a bad economic side picture when we started with the privatisation process, I personally appreciate it as an economist that it would be best if we had ended in a month. I may be caricating, but in a relatively short time because she's just a presumption of a further flow. She's not her goal. Sadly, in many enclaves it is so understood, and that is why it has all come and been approached and guided in the way it has been guided. There's always been some sort of question about why we're selling something. It's true that here when the models that I don't want to go back to are the good ones or the bad ones are established, that would mean going back to the beginning which would further slow the privatisation process. We're even losing the value of what we're doing while we're running a story on privatisation models. It is true that it was not enough here, I will mention first and foremost a few years ago the political will to establish 24 strategic priorities in the privatisation process of the branch and the areas and ways, i.e. the mechanisms in which the process would be achieved, has accelerated and started as soon as possible in those reforms for which privatisation is a key assumption. I'll just mention that specifically when it comes to this credit arrangement, it's an integral part of the overall improvement of the business climate, but I have to tell you that it's not the only one. The business climate is with us, i.e. creating a business climate with us is our relationship with some key issues of economic reforms, as well as the time it takes to register a company or to have a stranger register a company, or to get a clear picture of where everything needs to be paid tax and which tax at all, at local, cantonal, entity level, that there are no questions thousands etc. Besides, an action plan to improve the business climate, I think you'll get exactly the opportunity to talk about it soon. So this is just one part of the overall improvement of the business climate. Your question where does politics go in this area? If you were referring to the area of privatisation, unfortunately, sometimes we ask ourselves where the policy goes in general economic policy in all areas of economic reform. Sometimes because we also have different competences from the state level, entity level and sometimes lower levels of government in certain areas that concern one another and the privatisation process. I expect next year will be crucial. And assuming, among other things, is this credit arrangement. Mr. Novaković, you have asked some questions that are basically asked how we started the story of privatisation and transformation towards the market economy or the market rules of the game. I'm not sure it's exactly this credit arrangement, and I'm sure if you read a project agreement that unfortunately wasn't all in the process because it wasn't meant by our law that I'm not sure if you'd read the project agreement to keep on being an agent commission. Be assured it's not. I'm not sure that this credit arrangement would pay us to sell our strategic enterprises at some of the values that are, or at the prices below their values. Among other things, you have called on point 2 of this material, which may have been an explanation to the Commission, i.e. members of the Foreign Trade Commission, among other things, by allowing governments to engage domestic and international sales contractors in charge of identifying interested investors and preparing the real sale of companies, i.e. the transfer of the skills of foreign contractors to domestic and vice versa, which should create an environment suitable for further privatisation and after the completion of this project. This is only one proof that even during the negotiation of a credit arrangement, this one, too, was to be not only a transfer of funds as a technical aid to privatisation but also a educational role. Furthermore, I will tell you, I think it is important to mention that both entities in the usual procedure have also agreed to this agreement. Mr. Turjačanin, you mentioned the question of post-festum that I'm not going to say at all that this is a credit arrangement, but a general one. It is true that credit arrangements are negotiated, that credit arrangements are signed after all the usual procedures, followed by the ratification process when Parliament is involved. I think that perhaps at that stage, perhaps in this order of move, it would be an opportunity to make what is the mechanism and parliamentary control and the active role of Parliament, rather than just passive in all these phases or in certain phases that 25 Parliament evaluates involve Parliament in active impulses. This is not a post-festum, because I'm only going to mention one are negotiated in the usual procedure that is therefore foreseen, I want to mention and both governments have given this agreement. The credit agreement is signed, and becomes operational when ratified. So the funds have been standing pretty long, we're already in front of a new... studio. There is no operationality of these funds or the implementation of this project without ratification of this Agreement. But I think the essence of your question is more about you being, that is, Parliament and the institutions of Parliament, that is, the legislative authority is actively involved earlier. The realization that it is being followed, I think I was speaking partly because it concerns the conclusion Mr. Ilić presented on behalf of the commission. Here you mentioned an agreement in two entities going different over time, that's also the consequence of perhaps dynamics which is the result of different models of privatisation, different rules of play in both entities, so I don't think there's any need to further explain. Dear delegate Ivanković. I fully agree that this is a credit under favourable conditions and that the conditions are 0.75% which practically covers the GRACE's material costs for a period of 10 years is quite a long period and I'm not sure that we'll ever have a chance for such favourable conditions as this. What you specifically apostrophe that this import of knowledge is because I know that you are very engaged in imports and exports, I am especially potentiating and importing knowledge, especially if it is in the function of exporting with an obligation to maybe even export more knowledge than we import knowledge. I know that you know best that we import things in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I fully agree with you when it comes to the knowledge that we are really focusing on one selective import approach, especially when it is in export function. I'm not, I don't really agree with it because these solutions are good solutions that are being followed by a ban on importing something else. Because that's how we break domestic laws, and the second we create a monopoly position that you know very well. Thank you. I call on this home to take advantage of this opportunity and ratify this agreement, because I think that Bosnia and Herzegovina is necessary and that all the dilemmas that were very constructive with the proposals of course and the Commission and everything else will be included in the procedure through the implementation mechanisms of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2259	I would like to thank the honourable Minister for the congratulations and for answering the questions I hope the largest number has solved, if not all the dilemmas in the delegates' debate. I would like to say, in support of the ratification of this agreement, that I was one of those who had a critical tone of ratification of this agreement in the last session. In the meantime, I had a chance to get to know the information that wasn't available to me. Of course, by leading consultations with the Ministry of Foreign Trade, with entity ministries and parliaments that have ratified this agreement, with the office of the World Bank in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Ingrem with his associates and what I want to say is that without the World Bank's engagement and in this area in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it will not be possible to make progress that we expect. I think that if we do not show willingness to ratify such agreements, international financial institutions will move capital to more attractive areas than Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I appreciate that ratification of the substance of the agreement should pay due attention and ask certain questions. 26 Since there has been a discussion in this sense that the ratification of this agreement will not be approached, I would like to say that all the people of Republika Srpska and the Republika Srpska Assembly who have completed ratification and the Ministry of Finance and my personal position is that today it is necessary to ratify this agreement with the suggestion that perhaps the conclusion offered by the Foreign Trade Commission is not good because it is not a ratification of the tranche of the loan, but either a ratification of the agreement is being carried out as a whole or it is not being carried out. But it may be Parliament's conclusion that we are asking the Council of Ministers to occasionally report on the course of the implementation of this agreement. It would seem to me a good conclusion that would first mean ratification of the agreement and the obligation of Parliament to control through the Council of Ministers the implementation of the funds under this agreement. If we have, and I hope we have exhausted the debate concerning the ratification of this agreement, I ask you to approach the plea, noting that unless all delegates had the necessary level of correspondence and written materials to request it, but in any case a strong message would be to ratify this agreement. So I ask the question - who is it that this agreement is ratified? - Ten ten, then. Should we go to an entity statement? Who's against it? - There's no one who's restrained? - 2 Let's go now, we're looking for the entity majority. Who is from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina to ratify the agreement? Who is from Republika Srpska for ratification of the agreement? I am pleased to find that we have ratified this agreement. We're going to the eighth. I mean, is there a need to conclude? I'm begging you, I wanted to do a pro-furmulation. My proposal was therefore the conclusion that, in which House of Nations delegates are asking the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to occasionally report on the course of the ratification of the ratified agreement. Here, read it. It's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2260	The Commission's conclusion is – The Ministry of Foreign Trade undertakes to establish the programme and dynamics of withdrawal of credit funds by tranches and priorities in co-operation with the Ministry of Treasury, BiH institutions and entity finance ministries. The plan to implement these funds as well as the involvement of foreign experts with a defined deadline for execution. The ministry will draw up information for the entity assemblies and the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. There would then come a point without this last one, after which parliaments would give consent to withdrawing the next tranche, because we heard that it would look like we were ratifying every part of the agreement. That's what it means. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2261	(speaks from the site)
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2262	I beg you, we have a proposal for this conclusion, there is a conclusion that reconciles all the resolutions that delegates ask the Council of Ministers, therefore. Well, that could be the conclusion of the Home Commission now, but it does not matter that it is reporting to us the course of the implementation of this Agreement. I suppose we have a responsible council of ministers to take care of the tranches, not to hide the situation, not to turn out to be a ratification of the agreement and we are and we are not. So we're looking for a report, so are we going to make a statement about both conclusions or one? Okay. Are we putting the Commission's vote to the vote? Who's in? Who's in favor of raising clear files on who's in favor? - 10 Who's against it? Who's being held back? I'm restrained. So I realize this conclusion has been adopted. There's no need to go to the conclusion I've defined. Here's the conclusion. We're moving to the eighth point of the agenda. Ad. 8. The audit report. the applicant of the Office for Auditing Institutions in which the institutions were carried out, I apologize to the seventh point of Ad. Seven. A contract between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on customs co-operation and mutual assistance, Proposer of the BiH presidency. You've received a report from the commission. You've been given a brief explanation of the contract on the bench. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Is anyone answering for a word? If there's no one to report for the hearing, I suggest we make a statement. Who's to be agreed to ratify this contract? Who's in? 11 No objection, no abstentions. I find this contract has been ratified unanimously. We're moving to the eighth point of the agenda. Ad. 8. Report on the audit carried out 28 The applicant of the audit offices of the institutions in which the audit was carried out. So the institutions in which the audit was carried out are 1. State Border Service, 2. Ministry of Treasury of Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions, 3. The Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 4. Ministry of European Integration Bosnia and Herzegovina, 5. Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitutional Court and 6. The Regulatory Agency for Telecommunications. I suggest we have a separate discussion at these points. So let's go dot by point. Reports you received. The commission report you also received. Who's answering for a word? Here you go. Dear delegate, Mr. Jerko Ivanković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2263	Dear Chairman, fellow envoys, distinguished guests. The Commission for Finance and Administrative Affairs considered the audit report submitted by the Office for the Audit and Reports of the Commission on Finance and the Budget of the House of Representatives. You have received a written report from the Commission in the material for the session. The Commission held a discussion with the representatives of the institutions in which the audit was carried out, informing us that a part of the irregularities had already been removed, confirming that the Office for the Review of its Work is making a major contribution to the best possible organisation of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Commission also reached conclusions at its 18th session and proposes to the House to adopt them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2264	I thank the President of the Commission. Who's next to the word? Representatives of the audit office. As far as I know, Mr. Miletić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2265	Dear Mr President-in-Office of the Honorable Envoys, the Honored Minister, the Auditor-General has carried out an audit of the annual accounts for the year 2000 of these six institutions listed by the Mr. Chairman. This is the second series of reports. The first series was about a little over nine months. We delivered these reports to Parliament about half a year ago. The audit has been carried out in accordance with the general accepted review standards and insulated standards that allow us to use professional methods and obtain enough information to give an opinion regarding the revision. In carrying out the audit, we supported the adopted ethnic code which provides ethnic guidelines and supports the integrity of each auditor's independence and professionalism per person and guarantees an audit in an objective and impartial manner. We have seen weaknesses in the internal control system in all audited institutions through the audit of these institutions. There are still a number of misunderstandings with our clients that are internal controls. I'll give you one shorter definition. Internal controls are controls that establish the management of the institution in order, in addition to other things, to achieve the objectives outlined and to protect public funds from losses due to fraud, because of incompetence and carelessness as well as other objectives. I would therefore recommend that the representatives of the government, and 29, I am sorry that there are no more government representatives to use this seminar which was last year to give all the materials and comments and suggestions they received at the previous seminar that organised the EU to apply in practice. And the seminar was on the subject of internal control of internal audit. So it is necessary to apply this in practice so that our audit reports are as short as possible and as little as possible. It is necessary to lay down clear rules and procedures to regulate, in the first instance, the consumption of certain budget items and to monitor the implementation of breaths of the same items as other acts, in order to ensure that procedures within institutions are well prescribed and carried out to monitor those same procedures. Significant problems also create a lack of regulation making it difficult for institutions to work and creating conditions for irregularities. In the first place, I think that the lack of law on the supply of goods and services and the reduction of work and I would ask this tall House to commit the Council of Ministers to putting the law into practice as soon as possible to prevent any irregularities. There is also a significant lack of plans and work programmes with clear and measurable objectives that we have noticed almost with all institutions and we, if we go back quickly, hope that we want to include an impact review, will not be able to do so in quality, because the ministries have no clear goals. So when there's no clear and precise goal or plan to do whatever's right, it's done well, and that's certainly not good. Many errors in accounting records have also been observed, as business changes are not recorded in business books in the way accounting principles and standards provide. This primarily refers to non-compliance with the principle that business changes are recorded at the time of creation, rather than at the time of payment. Also, some institutions did not make a list of assets on 31. 12. which negatively affects the financial report and its accuracy. So this would in short be weaknesses and irregularities characteristic of all the audited institutions, and individual irregularities were given individually to each report. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2266	I thank Mr. Miletić. Who's next to the word? But I'd like to ask if we're going to plead individually or if we're going to have a general debate about everything together. I suggest since it's about concrete reports by the ministries that we go dot by point and have a debate first on the State Border Service how you got in the materials. Who's answering for a word? If there are no debates, I'll put on the vote the State Border Service review report. Who's for this report? I find this report unanimously adopted. 30 Moving to 2. The ministry for the vault institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So a report on the revision of the ministry of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions. Who's answering for a word? There are no candidates to discuss. I'm putting it to a vote. Who is it to adopt this report? Here you go. I thank the honourable minister for us, and you're coming back.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2267	In fact, the discussion would best be contained in recommendations recommended by the Commission for each individual report, the administrative commission that discussed these reports. Of course, at the end of each of these reports, they have recommendations from the House of Nations committees with certain conclusions. I think here is the place to be included in this recommendation, in fact in these recommendations, in the report on the audit carried out by the Treasury Ministry, and the conclusion that indeed the House of People is asking the Council of Ministers to draw up and deliver to the parliamentary procedure the law on which the auditor spoke. That's why the law on the purchase of goods and the intrusion of works. I therefore propose that, within the framework of the conclusions recommended by the Commission, this conclusion should be added and that we then vote on the full review report of the Treasury Ministry.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2268	I thank you for not changing our report on the auditory house. We understand that. Of course, we have the commission's conclusions, they refer to the obligation of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Is there anyone else here to discuss this? The Commission's conclusions, of course, are generally given for all audit reports. Of course, it's a recommendation. Who is it to adopt a review report for the BiH Treasury Ministry? I'm being unanimous. The ministry of human rights and refugees Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's calling for a hearing? If, of course, I can use the business opportunity to speak immediately with your permission, ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate the office's efforts to audit the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think this is the first time we've been audited by Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions. I appreciate that there have been failures in the work of the Ministerial Council and the joint institutions in the last meeting, although it is not about intentional failures that are a violation of the law. I also appreciate that, since this was the first audit report, there was a failure in the report made by the Audit Office and it is my pleasure to give my observations today with the presence of the Audit Office. 31 When it comes to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, it is about a ministry that has carried out the breakthrough of the Budget by 31 thousand marks. So it is the ministry that at least broke through the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the past period, and it seems to me that the report is somewhat more rigorous than for the other ministries, which will say they are making some political basis for something that should not be the subject of no report or parliamentary debates. It should not be the subject of the current authorities' accounting with predecessors. I'm saying this because I was a member of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees in the last meeting, and I want to tell you that this is the ministry that was formed since July when it wasn't in the budget, no funds were provided for refugees, and that in a very short time we were able to establish that ministry. That in a very short time, we managed to secure from the budget reserves some of the funds in the interest of the most vulnerable category of the population in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's what I'm convinced of. I would also like to say that we have trained the Ministry, because there was essentially no part of the job for the needs of refugees and for the UNHCR project conducted by the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, that in just 15 days we managed to establish the Ministry that was convinced I have produced fantastic results for such a short period of time. Perhaps during that period for the work of ambiguity in procedures and legal solutions there have been gaps as it has been in every ministry, but where I do not see the need for the report's statements in relation to the rest of the ministries, here I will be free to say it publicly. On this first page where the opinion of the auditors is said to be that, in accordance with Article 13(4) of the Revision Act, it is our obligation to report whether the accounts are made up in accordance with the applicable legislation? Do the annual reports represent the correct and true representation of the business during the year at the end of the year and the economic and efficiency and effectiveness of which the ministries used public funds to perform their functions? So these are clear corridors run by the audit office which I don't dispute. When it comes to the summary, it is said here – there have been reports of shortcomings in the budget planning phase, especially in the presentation of a programme of refugees from the budget that is not planned with clear and competitive objectives and tasks. I would like to say that this is the reason why it is a new ministry, so the newly formed ministry when funds for these needs were not planned in the budget and were not clearly indicated and the struggle of the Ministry and at that time Minister Raguž with his associates was to try to get as much funds from the budget reserves as possible to address these problems. And we, according to the Council of Ministers' assessment of that time, would have said a policy that was the most vulnerable category at that time. The third paragraph in summary says -- the audit office found that the programme the ministry implemented in 2000 was not transparent enough. It's a political assessment. It's either something transparent or not transparent. So it must be said what this intransparency is looking at. Then law enforcement. The Ministry's leadership has repeatedly violated positive legal regulations as to why it carries a certain degree of responsibility. It's not the Ministry of Audit's job to mention this in the report. It is the task of those to whom the commission, the competent institutions are called. So it seems to me that this single-dose report should not be resented by the representatives of the office for reviewing tendence written in terms of something that may not be good for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and here we will be witnessing the report of the authorities that came after that. 32 Employment of workers. No Niko at the Ministry has ever worked on a refugee program. We've hired 76 people who still work in that ministry today and I have to tell you that we've been waiting for procedures to be the Ice Ministry today. The next thing I want to draw attention to very shyly in this report, it says that although the procedure was 1/3, 2/3 of the spending on the needs of refugees and displaced in the Federation and Republika Srpska, it is very shyly indicated that the programmes and projects spent in Republika Srpska's space for the issue of refugees and displaced works in line with the tender and transparent. Each of us draws part of responsibility for what he does and has no collective responsibility. But what the Audit Office finds is therefore required to make public announcements. So these are my impressions and I'm very sorry that I wasn't invited when the commission was working that simply with the documents for each used brand there must be a project. The second thing is whether procedures were built in Bosnia and Herzegovina if, in some municipality, there was, say, 20 grand for rebuilding houses, if they spent it. There's a control mechanism. The minister won't go to see if the funds have been spent or not. It is therefore now the establishment of some new relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Every contract and settlement says it's mandatory to control. So that control can be carried out at any moment. I agree with the findings of our commission and I would be very pleased to use the presence of the audit office to respond to these instructions. So it's about the Ministry with the least-broken budget. You have a break-in of up to 2.5 million where no responsibility is sought. I do, and I have to tell you, unfortunately, the papers written by the leadership of the current Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, and it seems to me more like the personal misunderstandings of the current Minister of Human Rights and Refugees and the previous, than in normal states would be desirable to happen. But I would therefore ask the audit office to say whether the funds spent in Republika Srpska's space were transparent, so that it was publicly said and that it could therefore be done not in criminal acts, but that it could be about the non-building of procedures that were simply burdened by other ministries. So that's what I'm asking for the audit office to give its vision, to record it. I suggest that the report be adopted and I think it's a good thing that this is the beginning of a good reporting and good work and the office for the audit and work of the ministries. Thank you very much. Mr. Ivo Divković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2269	Mr. Chairman, I understand your need to, as former Deputy Minister, in some way in the finding of the Audit Office, give your views and opinions, etc. However, I do not think that practice is good in this home in such a way that others who have done these and other jobs do not have that opportunity. And now I think you're kind of misusing your office as chairman to seek answers to a single ministry. We can agree or that any ministry if it does not respond to the Audit Office to submit the report to its opinion etc. Or continue the plea procedure related to the report as we have begun. That's it. Thank you. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2270	Thank you very much for the suggestion that I, of course, have the right to ask what I know. I can't ask anything I don't know. I appreciate if delegates have the knowledge to discuss every report, every one, that is the purpose of our debate. It means she's immaterial. I can't talk about something I don't know, and that's why I asked for an explanation whether in this way, perhaps the ignorant formula of the Audit Office came out of his jurisdiction? So is that a coincidence, if by chance I respect it and greet it. If it's deliberate, it has to be justified. It's serious stuff. It's not like they're just looking through our fingers. These are, of course, the evaluations that the audit office made. Thank you. Here's the word Mr. Miletić asked for. After that, Mr Ibrahim Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2271	Only briefly responded to the remarks made by Mr. Chairman who was at the time in the ministry's management. He would have refused if this report had been written in some political tendencies. This is one of the nine reports we've implemented. For the first time I've heard he's got a political connotation. Normally everyone has the right to their assessment, but we have tried to make sure that the report is impartial, objective and that it is done in the best possible way in accordance with standards and with the ethical code and there was absolutely no intention of anyone's discrediting. I could explain more, etc. who was the minister, etc., my relationship, etc., but no report shows the head of which institute was who, nor did we see it at all. So we watched the findings found by the auditors, wrote recommendations, sent over here, and tried to unify the reports. It's possible that not all reports are equally sharp or equally mild. But it's a very difficult job and it's hard to get 100% of all to be at the same level of the same strength written and sharpness we can say so. As far as transparency is concerned, our main observation is that these funds that you mentioned earlier were going, that they were going towards the municipalities, there was no control mechanism. That's the internal control I was just talking about. If funds are given to the municipalities, they are intended funds for refugees. Those funds must be spent on refugees. And how the Ministry can control that. It may request feedback or a report from that municipality, so if someone is not satisfied, a further investigation may be carried out. So feedback must be obtained as to why these funds were used. When it comes to responsibility, we mentioned that responsibility to some other institutions. It is possible that this may be too harshly written, but the general auditor has the right to, in his opinion, determine the strength of that report, and on the commissions may be lighter than we were in the reports, they may be sharper. So now it's a matter of the commission to proceed with these reports, that is, those findings. And when it comes to employment, we've established with all the institutions, absolutely everyone that's not called a public tender and I can tell you it's still going on. That's right, and in our next reports, there will be similar findings when it comes to that. Thank you very much. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2272	I thank Mr. Miletić. I'm happy to say that it's an unequal termology and that maybe this is a harshly used word, but I have to say that the means that were indicated were made on the basis of documentation. No one can pay the municipality or any funds unless they have a request and a project. There was no payment like that. So it may, perhaps, be a matter of building internal control to control and obtain feedback whether they are consistent with the project and the tender documentation spent. It's the task of the ministry that comes and I absolutely respect it, but here I am pleased that it satisfies that the word may be overused, but she knows when someone professional or someone who wants to be malignancies reads the report, she opens many other dilemmas that are unnecessary. And it is a matter of competent institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina to discuss the report they have published taking action if they appreciate the need for these activities. Thank you. So the word is Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2273	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, I would just like to visit that the committee chaired by Mr. Jerko Ivanković has given us four proposals in which she has made it quite clear that she supports the correct representation of the work of BiH institutions by the review committee and that in the coming period of the BiH institution to which this relates, the shortcomings observed should be addressed. One of the observed shortcomings is the control of the implementation of projects, plans and funds set out in a particular area. In this case for refugee issues. And third institutions have stated that this is obtained (or donated ). the funds must be realised in accordance with the law and reported naturally registered in the vault. What is the fourth conclusion, which is likely to cause the most misunderstandings in each review debate, is that the competent state authorities are obliged to carry out an insight into the report of the Office for Auditing and Financial Operations and, if it is necessary to establish responsibility, take measures from their jurisdiction. I think it concerns the House of Peoples of the Parlamentary Assembly of BiH by fully satisfying this commission's view that what is clearly not politicised, does not turn into some sort of settlement whether someone has overstepped more or less. For example. This observation of yours, Mr. Chairman, that you have slightly exceeded the budget funds, and that you have information personally that there are ministries that have exceeded two 2.5 million KMs of their pre-account plans, too, if you were to force the max into a thread, you would actually now have to turn into a debate which are institutions that have skipped, say, their opportunities and rights 2.5 million above the existing one. And let's say that I returned from the margin of one debate that was related to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the past period, it was found that a criminal report was launched which was clear in the first wave because it referred to the errors of ambassadors and assistant ministers in the last term of office, then in two days again after the intervention, I don't know what kind of protocol and what kind of protocol had legally said that this was not actually a serious violation, but a minor, minor violation which should somehow be interpreted. I mean a society that's completely volunteering and whose law means nothing. It's quite clear as day. We do not need to lead a great controversy about this, nor is this a great discovery for the public or for the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 35 But what I look forward to is that in response to the apparition of the House of Auditors here it is said that in no way, and it seems to me from the report that I looked at was not the rules of the so-called audit discrimination and that it has been added somewhere, taken away in terms of political connotations, evaluations, etc. Let us just remind ourselves of the debate you and Mr Špirić had with regard to the report of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a debate that your colleague who is not here today, the second co-chair of this house, Mr Tokić, opened on matters of responsibility, and in fact escaped from point 4 and then as he is running away now. You didn't escape, but it escaped in public in our relationship. We were just talking about a very clear and transparent relationship over a contract between the Council of Ministers and our Commission and the House and we talked 45 minutes to establish principles on how to establish new relations. If point 4 here says that the competent authorities are obliged, so mandatory and this Parliament today needs to adopt not only the report individually, but the adoptions and conclusions of our commission, they are obliged to execute, they are not, it is not free will you know not to carry out an insight. They don't do these people's jobs as auditors for us to be informed to adopt conclusions and to end it. It is the work of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina that are responsible. In this case they're doing one job, we're doing another job, and the competent state authorities are doing a third job based on their insight. And since you previously debated the issue of BiH institutions' vaults, saying that we cannot change the audit committee's report, I would recommend that we simply act in the same way. The auditors have done their job and the conclusion of our commission under point 4. clearly made it possible for us to keep the letters of the law, and also to commit as a home to stress about other state bodies that should be correct, whether your information is individual or home to the people or to any other one of these or such. It's now available as I've repeatedly turned my attention, like this or something. It is now a matter of availability, as I have repeatedly drawn the attention of information to you or to another House, but it is quite certain that already this information provided by the auditor, which the audit board has given enough to establish these four principles which I think are pure, correct and have established a good relationship between institutions. I recommend, as you do, that we approach the plea in relation to this report as well, and that we finally come to the conclusion of the Komisja. I don't think we're just treating her like a travel document.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2274	I thank Mr Spahić, so the only option and there is a business opportunity to adopt the report and vote on the Commission's conclusions. There's no reason not to. Who's next to the word? Mr. Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2275	Dear colleagues very briefly. The worst thing that could happen is that we politicize such an institution as the Auditor institution. I don't see the elements for that grade. I respect the right of every delegate to discuss. However, I see several elements to conclude that auditors are doing their job, but that they are facing a lack of a number of regulations, indeterminateness, and that they are bringing them into the field where decisions are difficult to make. I call, of course, on all of us to contribute to the necessary laws, the necessary rules are made. I call on the Council of Ministers to prepare the necessary laws, and I welcome the work of the auditors and their relationship, whether it is different to the holders of the previous government or the current government. I wouldn't judge 36 at this point. We'll evaluate it as soon as we get the review report for this year and last year. We got the results of previous audits, including the elements that auditors do professionally, professionally and consciously their work. When it comes to the subject matter of the review in this act, all those who are here have been processed by former authorities. They were part of the former government. The only difference is that some of these participants of the former government are participants and current authorities. It's the only difference, and speaking of which, I think Mr. Špirić is even praised at some point, not because of politicization by the strenuous auditor, but from the situation in this home. I remind you that the chairman of this house, Mr. Tokić, has filed an initiative that Minister Jadranko Prlić's partner is being relieved of his findings and what Mr. Prlić did at the time he was in the former Council of Ministers' Council meeting. That finding for his ministry was not as drastic as the refugee ministrstvo. I was not even then to make political judgments before the competent authorities did their job, but in any case Mr Špirić, who was and then power and now performs a very significant function as chairman of the House of Peoples. The post is more important than the deputy minister at the Council of Ministers, no one has submitted an initiative for the shift. So, Mr. Špirić, we should respect the facts and strive to respect both our work and the right to discuss but also the expertise and professionalism of our auditors.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2276	I thank Mr. Genjac. His shift initiative whenever it is filed will be put to this House for a plea. A Genjac doesn't need to worry. It's the right for people to discuss the report, so he's here without emotion, and I'm asking if there aren't any other debaters to put this report to the vote. Who's to adopt the report? - 12 I konstatovati the report unanimously adopted. We are moving on to an analysis of the European Integration Ministry's report. Who's calling for a hearing? There's no argument. We're approaching the plea. Who is it to adopt this report? Unanimity 12. Moving to 5. The BiH Constitutional Court. Who wants to pee? There's no one here. I'd like to make a statement about this report. Who's to accept this report? Unanimity. We're going to go to six. Telecommunications Regulatory Agency. Who's calling for a hearing? There's no debate. Who's to accept the report? Unanimity - 12. I am putting the adoption of the Commission's conclusion to the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. Who's to get the conclusions? It's a report with conclusions. 12 unanimous. You see how unanimous everything is and according to the Rules of Procedure. 37 We cross, we're done arguing, we're done with suggestions. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Allow me to hold a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You see, this conclusion has nothing to do with the findings of the Audit Office. We're getting reports. We're talking about reports. Here's the vote. Who is it to adopt that conclusion? Who's being held back? I'm restrained. - Two abstentions. He's got the conclusion of most of it. A conclusion has been adopted. We're going to the 9th point. Ad.9. A report on the work of the Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy of the House of Peoples you received a report. I'm opening a debate. I give my word to the Chairman of the Komisja. Mr. Ilić. If there's nothing to add, we've got the report, thank you. Who's calling for a hearing? If no one answers, I want you to, please welcome Mr Ibrahim Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2277	I would like to see Mr Chairman, from this report, that the members of the Commission and the chairman exclude the part two concerning why the Commission did not give consent, as the Commission first agreed and supported the development loan agreement number 3531, etc. And I don't think it's right to keep it unmarked. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. It's not right to stay if you didn't do something when you supported us with these supplements. Second, what I'd like to say about this commission's work. This commission is extremely outside for us, and I would suggest that we have two things to discuss with this committee in connection with the debate on this same document that we were talking about. The first concerns the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I am interested in making this commission, from this report, available to delegates, here are the information menus concerning the implementation of BiH's foreign policy in this part, therefore, the Commission's assessment of the implementation of the basic and basic document "General Guidelines and Priorities for the implementation of foreign policy". I would then like, therefore, the Commission's assessment, as I see that it has written that in this part the Commission has constantly threatened the review of international activities and under these adopted information was the document "General Guidelines for Priorities for the Implementation of Foreign Policy. I am more interested in whether the Commission has been able to do so in the reporting period once, and I do not see it in the report that it is talking about foreign policy in BiH. Did she ever get a chance to get an information id and let us know as a home as a competent commission? As far as I know, it's not, and this doesn't show that it is. If it is, if you can't see it here, then I'd like to add it to this report and give us that information about what the Commission thinks about being a Dom. Secondly, when it comes to economic policy. Since this commission is also in charge of issues since we have all two or three commissions in one, this commission and trade policy, foreign and trade policy and economic relations, etc. It would be good for us in this report if we had had information or if we had also discussed on several occasions how this commission sees the realization of the obligations involved, as it has seen, I do not see it from the report the realization of the obligations concerning our engagement in relation to this very foreign trade policy and issues which I quite want to ask clearly in the context of the report. I am surprised that I do not see any information in the Commission that she was dealing with a question, say, 38 formations of an external rgovina chamber, then the presence of our famous winged that this foreign policy headed by our council of ministers will be marked by the strong expansion of economic experts in the embassies and the DKP and the extraordinary engagement of BiH in this area. I don't see it anywhere in the report, and I have a feeling, and in the statements I hear every day, I'm almost impressed with the results that have been achieved. I would like to get information, what in the strategy, that's what the House is interested in, what should be interested in this commission, which should be in the report changed about foreign trade and at all how you want it, because the new international policy is aimed at BiH. There's one, as I said, the interministral circle between this ministry and the Ministry of Economic Integration and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Mrs Azra would be very irrevocable. If we've never had a chance to win a commission before, I encourage the Commission, which is in charge of the area, has seven and a half points dedicated to this area to get it on the agenda, let's say by the end of our term of office. If I have overlooked these activities over the past period, you are sorry and if I have failed to accept this as a suggestion so that we can obtain a global picture of what has changed so significantly on the outside plan and what experts are doing economically from BiH on the international agenda, whether in the DKP, or as representatives of our external and commercial chamber for which it is still known to have... a board of formation and which I still know there is no strategy for the work that was under the law since June two years ago from June to begin this activity. Dake, it's been two years. I'd like to know what we have as an insight. I have no better way than to ask the President of the Commission and the members of the Commission if they have any information, which I would like to have, at last officially and not in the papers. It's like this one good will of mine to be directed into your activity, since I've been to one two sessions of your member, it would be a pleasure to get this information as soon as possible. I'm sorry it might be past, in a way, the agenda, but within your jurisdiction, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2278	Thank you, Mr Spahić. I'm asking you to stick to the agenda. This is the report, this is a series of questions that aren't in the report. So please, let's just stick to the agenda and the Rules of Procedure. Who's next to the word? If there is no one, I will take the opportunity to, it is the third party, related to the Commission's conclusions, say something that is not good to be in the report. Of course, it's the House delegate that appreciates whether it is or not. He says, the College of the People's House undertakes to conduct this activity in accordance with the Business, respecting the competences and recommendations of the Commission. I ask you this, the College of the House of Peoples must work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and it does not say that the rates in the Rules of Procedure must comply with the recommendations. So, if there are deviations from the Rules of Procedure of the College, they must be listed, but these are flat-rates that aren't good, because this stays in the archives. The second thing, if the College violates the Poslvonik, the Komisja will ask the House to take a stand. I mean really, this is the attitude that I don't see the reasons, at least I don't see the reasons, of course the delegates will plead to this attitude. Listen if the College works in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If the Commission has concluded that there are discrepancies from Poslvonik it can launch a business initiative and it cannot warn, if you work past Poslvonik we will, there is no logic, no matter what, all have their responsibilities. This is not a good 39 to stand in a document. It's a delegate's thing whether they vote for this or not. I won't, until I'm told where it was done that way. So we as colleagues as parliamentarians must have everything in mind. He can't stand this grade. This is a threatening grade, no matter what college I'm in charge of right now. I don't need that prevention. You know, nobody's sinless. When the first analysis can be said in the team and those cases, the College has come out of its jurisdiction by the commission's assessment. I beg you, I will not vote for these two items. Otherwise I'll support the report without this, but I'm asking the commission to have an understanding. I defend the position, not Nikola Špirić, but the colleague who works in accordance with the Business. These are formulas that could endure past times. But we are fellow delegates where we can tell each other everything we think, without trying general formulations, which can be understood one way or the other. It is therefore my suggestion to accept the rest of the report that is correct. Mr. Dragutin Ilić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2279	Of course, without wanting to defend something to the Commission, the Commission is made up of the delegates of this House and the Commission's report on the work of the Commission has found everything the delegates have proposed and the Commission has accepted. This part of which Mr Špirić warned was contained in the proposal made by Mr Genjac, concerning the famous journey and departures of the Kolegijum to where it should and should not, and I think that Mr Genjac was right when he warned that the College must and the competent commission to respect her opinion on delegations, and here was the debate that several times and broken the Rules of Procedure, and this is why it was warned. So, maybe the formulation isn't as good as it was given and I agree with that, but if there was a debate here at the House, it's obvious and it's been warned of breaking the Rules of Procedure. I agree that we need each other to say everything openly, and I think that's how it's done, so that everything is consistent with the interests of those who have delegated us here as well as with the Rules of Procedure while he is as he is, until we change him, we should respect him. As far as Mr Spahić's remarks are concerned, this report was for the first six months and this one was for the other six months and within these other six months we didn't have a report from either the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, related to the realization of these documents you said, which does not mean that the next report will not include it because we will ask for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2280	I thank Mr. Ilić. The word came from Mr. Turjačanin. I just want to say that travel that in collaboration with parliaments ensues the College in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and does not travel where it should or should not be. The agenda may even be required to inform it, but I don't think that's good, that BiH is not in the interest of this kind of debate either. I think what's going on, whether someone says it's a skillful or clumsy formulation, but as colleagues, you'll agree that this is a clumsy formulation. Here you go, Mr. Turjačanin.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2281	Dear Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, it is likely that the continuation of my discussion at the continuation of my colleague Ilić's discussion with the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, and I also believe that this report that the Commission gave is a fully balanced report that should not cause too much, not to say, discussions on this home. Perhaps for my taste and under-absorbed certain problems, perhaps insufficient distinctions of 40 Igency businesses and those of all the events related to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of European Integration, which have particularly happened not to say during the BiH accession period in the Council of Europe. Also, for my taste, it may not have even been enough to absorb the choice, that is to say, delegating certain problems over the European integration processes of BiH at this home, so we have often had a situation that some things have happened, as the Minister of the Post-Festim said, and in the end, as the House, we have debated some things as concluded that I do not say developments about BiH. Personally, I believe that the report that the Commission gave is well-involved and that there are no particular objections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-04-29-0.u2282	Thank you, Mr. Turjačanin. Who's still answering for the word? If there are no debates, I'm putting the report to a vote. Who's in? - 17 for it. Who's against it? - Who's being held back? - 1 abstention. Thank you. Report's been passed. This way we've exhausted all the points of the agenda. I thank you for the expedition you've shown. The plan is for the next session of the 18th orientation to inform you 28th and 29th you will receive later calls and material for the session, but to plan that this is a possible date for the 18th session. Thank you very much. 28th and 29th. The seat is over.
