ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2615	Dear delegates, esteemed guests, distinguished representatives of public information funds, I am opening the 21st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session of the House of Nations is attended by 13 delegates, 5 from the Bosniak people, 4 from the order of the Croatian people and 4 from the order of the Serb people. So, I find that we have a quorum and we can make full and full decisions at today's session and, for the sake of our absence, for the sake of official absence, announced delegate Mr. Goran Turjačanin. You've got today's agenda. First you get the agenda with one item on the agenda are amendments and additions to the Election Act – Article 100. Proposer of the Council of Ministers. During the morning, on the table you found the agenda, with two points of the agenda. This is the second item of the agenda of the Development Credit Agreement. Credit for adapting the business environment between BiH and the International Development Association. I'd like to inform you that we in the College didn't have full consent. Mr. Tokić was restrained for the reason that the proponent of this ratification agreement did not seek emergency procedures. I would also like to inform you that I have had more talks with the ambassadors most influential at the country level with a request to ratify this agreement, that I have had a conversation all morning and afternoon with the Council of Ministers and with the predsjedništvo that it is also important for the economic position of BiH to ratify this agreement today, in order for the 16th Council of Representatives to ratify it. In fact, it's a $44 million loan. 4 to support the state budget and other support for entity budgets, 22 to the Federation entity and 18 to the RS entity. I also had a conversation with a high representative who thinks it would be good, or requires us to ratify this agreement today. So I ask your understanding that today we accept this item of the agenda, by respecting the Rules of Procedure, which he insists on with his first colleague Tokić to take a break behind the first point and that the committee in charge is considering this agreement. So a half-hour break so we can ratify this agreement. I sincerely ask you to understand the need, therefore, to adopt both point 1 and point 2. I think the economic situation and the position of the ordinary man in BiH points to the urgency of ratification of this agreement in order to withdraw the necessary funds for demobilised fighters in the Federation and, of course, in Republika Srpska so that they can simply emerge and, at least, mitigate the economic crisis, economically-social. If there is a need for me to explain this position later, I will, of course, seek participation in the mood. Here I am opening a dispersion regarding the offered agenda. Here's who's picking up. Mr. Tokić's chairman. Here you go. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2617	Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, delegates, my wish only to clarify my position, it is about protecting business matter and not reducing the importance of this law, or ratification of this agreement. I would like to say today that today's session is scheduled as an extraordinary session, as an extraordinary session with only one item on the agenda. If you were to talk about the urgency of putting other points on the agenda, I can freely read you ten more points for which all business opportunities have been acquired and even the obligation to be on the agenda today as an emergency. For this part of the agenda, there is no article request by any authorised person to be as part of the agenda at that session, and I personally received an agreement half an hour ago and I trust Mr Špirić to have been called by a lot of ambassadors, but it would be correct to point out that for other laws, not only called, but also held meetings at which the apriors, most urgently, requested the adoption of a set of other laws. Therefore, my abstention in this matter is to disrespect the business procedure and to say the double criteria in the aspect of urgency. I say there are ten more urgent, I'd even dare say, like, points of the agenda that we had to put on today. The session is scheduled for an emergency session procedure with only one item on the agenda and I don't think it's good, in seven days we have a defacto, a session new in seven days, the first stage of speed, on the basis of oral talks, without a business request I repeat neither the Vijećaministara or the Presidency that this is going according to emergency procedure. Of course, I have no objection to the ratification of this agreement, my relationship to ratification and the adoption of the law has always been very clear and I would not want it to be questioned today.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2618	I thank Mr. Tokić. Mr Ibrahim Spahić answered the words. I just want to say there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure against putting this item on the agenda. This session is called by emergency procedure, so it is not an emergency session but an emergency session, Article 4.2(3) is used. Rules of Procedure. If the House decides that there are reasons to ratify the agreement, we will ratify it and I don't think we're violating the Rules of Procedure. Unless it decides, there is, of course, that possibility, but just so we know there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The chairman may, if he decides, schedule an emergency session and share the materials during the session. I think it would be good if we had a ratification today. If he shares his opinion that it's not good to ratify it, I'm a legalist and I'll respect home's decision. The word has a Mr. Spahić. Here you go. Of course, you agree with Mr. Tokić that there are other laws that require emergency procedures, but I think we'll be in the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2619	All right, Mr. Špirić, I'll be fine. I would like to say first of all to Mr Špirić that by giving himself a word just now, I would really like to resolve a dilemma about this proposed agenda. He is right this time, Mr Tokić, when he says that, on behalf of the College or the chairman, he comes out for the agenda and markets consent from the House that it is correct, he has plenty of time and the procedure is normal, especially when it comes from the state authorities, which are also in this building or ten minutes from this building, to send a formal request and to respect the Rules of Procedure. Nothing costs to take a break as you suggested for the first time, after this adoption of amendments and additions to the Election Law and to provide a signed request to the College and the House of Peoples. It's a formal thing, but it's important because it's called self-respect. As for Mr. Tokić's intervention, I came to the team about and came to the attention because he found one fact that is absolutely accurate, and that is, that there is a series of materials of the proposal, law, interpretation, documents, decisions that had to be on the agenda, if not these urgent scheduled sessions, then at a session of July 15th that they had scheduled and on whose agenda there are no series of documents and decisions which, according to the Rules of Procedure, were time-out and I would not want to keep your attention, nothing more, but I would like to draw attention to the Kolegijum that the mandate had expired, today we got to the table, I would say the obligation not to mandate the Council of Ministers within 60 days were obliged to respond to the interpretation that I referred to the economic and social situation in BiH. Today we got an answer that was dated from the 5th of this month and I'm begging you
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2620	I'm asking you to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2621	And I ask you, as you've agreed with the ambassadors and the predsjedništvo and the Council of Ministers, to respect and what the delegates have initiated, which the Council of Ministers respected, did its job to put on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2622	...I'm asking you to take care of it. The agenda must be respected.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2623	Since it's a debate on the agenda, this is a discussion of the fact that you respect the Rules of Procedure of this and the next time too.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2624	The word is Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2625	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed delegates, distinguished guests, I would like to ask delegates when they call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure to stick to that Rules of Procedure and call for a member who has been injured. The sitting shall be convened in accordance with Article 42(3). It's the rules of procedure that decidently stands in. In urgent cases, or at the request of one club of delegates and at least five delegates, or on the basis of its own decision, the chair may convene a session within three days. In that case, the agenda of the session when, in justified cases, it may be proposed during its maintenance and the material divided at the session itself. Is there anything controversial, Mr Spahić? There isn't. And now I have to show you, the biggest accident of this country and its citizens, which often representatives of the international community show more concern for the future of ordinary mortals. And I want to say today that the Presidency and the Council of Ministers are too expensive to be postmen between OHR and Parliament. That's the situation that forced us to this agenda point. I would like to read to you the decisions that the Bureau has warned us that there has been a 140th session of the Bureau scheduled urgently for this agreement. Isn't that a valid document for this House? I would like to say that we are informed that four vijećeministar have made a decision that the agreement was signed by Minister Hadžiahmetović 10. June, but what's particularly controversial, I called the Bureau and asked them to send me a request per article 100 to decide today. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I don't need to say that in public behind this pay phone. But we have first of all to appreciate that it's urgent for our citizens and to show them that it's not entirely up to them. I'm begging you, I wanted to not say this, but since you're looking for I have to go public to say it. This morning during the meeting of the Council of Ministers, I went to the meeting and resolved the dilemmas so that they could ratify it. I'm asking you now. What do we get if we don't ratify the agreement today and have ratification 18 and there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. I agree that there are direct and direct laws that stand in the process for these or those reasons which are the subject of different political poles, but once we get the necessary minimum and need consensus, all the laws will be passed. We should be blushing on it and we've done it so far, but if there are political misunderstandings, I am this ratification of this agreement, I am asking you to make them public and say there will be no point in the agenda. I don't think there's any need for us to outwit ourselves. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. If we plead that the option that can't be dfanas ratification won't be, but that way that you want, what I said at the invitation of the ambassadors of developed or most developed states to appreciate that it would be good, I want to say publicly that they show greater concern, unfortunately, than the representatives of the BiH government, but you have very often used this pay phone and said an agreement has been reached somewhere. I don't see any reason for you to have a double archin. What bothers you if people have concerns? What bothers you if they communicate with Špirić and demand it be. I have the impression that you've lost... which has been pleasant for us for two years. Well, I guess the international community has come into a situation to see who they're dealing with, and I think that... every part of their responsibility, especially the Presidency and the Council of Ministers. We are often, most often put into a situation where we have this kind of squabble because of the poor work of these organs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2626	I don't know, Mr. Špirić, if you've been following, at all what I said. But you obviously didn't. I supported you in your subsequent intervention, and I'd say it would be best if you stayed the proposal you made at the beginning, and that means when we finish point one, we finish the scheduled session for which we got the agenda, let's take a break, people for self-respect read these papers that you interpret, and then we have that agenda point after that break. I wasn't against your proposal or your approach. On the contrary, it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So I didn't break the Rules of Procedure at all. I only thank you for telling me that you have made an effort as chairman that you have asked the Presidency that in those three sentences you be respected as chairman, the College and this home and that you do this by an urgent procedure at first. Since you're making excuses, I have no comment and I would like to congratulate you on the openness you showed in this subsequent intervention. So, with me you have full support so that after the debate on the agenda scheduled by the College, you make a break for the delegates to read this document which they have also received in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of our intervention and I want to express my satisfaction with the non-compliance of the Presidency of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Custodial of BiH and its usual procedure to turn to their home in writing, in which they have often been in three parts and, otherwise, one or two-thirds, two-thirds, one-thirds present at this home, and it is the Poslvonik of this House to be respected. You said they refused, and I'm glad you declared your position to the representatives. You had no other kind of intervention on the 5th side of me and I supported Mr. Tokić, who first warned that there were a dozen different priority from the Akonae that we adopted in our work programme and because of the self-respect and other delegates I asked you to make sure that 15th of this summer session, I do not believe that it would be scheduled until 30th but an emergency session to review the materials that you sent to us on behalf of the College or our service and ensure that only one example was entered into the agenda, and I could also be nine-tenths of them, but I will not have that interpretation which was completed after more than two months in response from the Council of Ministers to this House and that interpretation you, as three members of the College, supported and requested it from the Council of Ministers. To respect yourself, I think it's time you reconsider the agenda for the 15th, and there's no other intervention on my part. I will support this agenda, under the conditions that you have suggested. So, break after the first item of the agenda. If the Bureau thinks about this public statement of yours, the fact that it did not deliver and that it refused to submit that formal request. When the team delivers better. Unless it's up to you to use the Rules of Procedure legitimately and we can respect it, but we need to have this knowledge that you specifically and accurately said. In doing so, I did not mention ambassadors in any such context as you, and I think it is appropriate that those as partners continue to work and fill the gaps in our mutual communication that must be regular at the same time as the extraordinary Bureau session was held because of the importance and urgency of this agreement the same day was due to the Presidency half an hour later to request an emergency discharge and there would be no problem. That's what I'd like to say, therefore, self-respect and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2627	I thank Mr Spahić, Mr Divković and Mr Tokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2628	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I've volunteered to talk about the agenda, right? I guess that's what I'm entitled to by the Rules of Procedure, and that's the point of the agenda. However, I must now before I say what I really meant to say, answer something that Špirić here said. I don't know if he put it in this line because he was looking at it or if I'm not sure about it. However, Mr Špirić, when you said whether there are political misunderstandings about the agreement, I must tell you that there is no misunderstanding or agreement. We found an agreement here on the table. I didn't read it either, so I couldn't talk to anyone about it. So it certainly is no reason for us to argue here or support this on the agenda. Also, no one, I hope, has lost a wing in which it has been pleasant for two years here. It's not about that at all. We're only talking about one thing, and that's whether this agreement, which is put on the agenda, should we accept it to enter the agenda or not. If he is accepted to enter, I am deeply convinced that he will pass as all the agreements that have come here. So that's not a question. In order for it to be clear to me, I have not consulted with the club or anyone, but I speak for myself, and I would like very much, esteeming your explanation, Mr Špirić. However, I think that the metric peddlers would have someone from the Council of Ministers of the Presidency if they were to go out for this pay phone and explain the need to put this agreement on the agenda today, since we know that we have a new session in seven days and that it is very urgent that it be today. If that argument is accepted by delegates, and I believe, if the argument is, as it is said, rightly so, we will all support that, with the normal interruption of the session, the dispersion on the commission measuredly, etc. Back to the session. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2629	I thank Mr. Divković. The river has Mr. Tokić and Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2630	For me, it is simply the chairman and gentlemen of the envoys, the delegates are not clear why we are coming to this position, but since the chairman has launched this debate where the Rules of Procedure is violated, I will specify three elements of the drastic violation of the Rules of Procedure. It shall be stated in Article 100, when the applicant requests that a certain law be considered under Article 100, it shall be the obligation of the resident and the College to present this before the House at the next session. We now have two very urgent laws that have arrived to the MPs. I will mention this is the Customs Tariff Act, which is the condition of all conditions for our inclusion in the world organisation and not by phone to you Špirić but by public OHR informed the public in a certain way that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly must adopt the law as soon as possible. It's similar with the aspect of the prosecution law, the prosecution's advice as I recall. I do not know the exact formulation of the law, or, in turn, the veterinary law under Article 99 was directed and was obliged, too, to be put at the next session, all business obligations have been made. I don't need to explain here how much it takes to get about it. If we don't treat this session as an emergency session, an emergency session under quotes, then this session couldn't have started any other way than with information on the compliance of what was at the last session, and it was about PBIS law. Have we agreed on a procedure for the adoption of the PBIS law, or have we agreed on other documents that were... All three of these elements are imperatively written in the Rules of Procedure and it is three violations of the Rules of Procedure, in which I am, simply, self-sustained and do not wish to participate, but I fully accept the suggestion and even the commitment to make this decision in the final line of the House. So, the House can today make a decision that all these businesses in a certain way do not respect the facts if there is a strong argument that it is necessary today and not for 7-8 days to ratify this agreement which we have not yet read and in this context for my vote on this item of the agenda it will be crucial to declare the Council of Ministers, therefore, the Ministry of Foreign Trade with an argument on what is urgent in these seven days or, in turn, the Presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2631	I thank Mr. Tokić. The word is Mr. Genjac. Dear colleagues, what is during this debate on the agenda, perhaps the common content is, the assessment that the international community is taking more care of the citizens of BiH than the representatives of the current government. I have to agree with that and, given that I'm suggesting some conclusions. So, apart from relations with the citizens of BiH, I think that according to the Parliamentary Assembly, for example, according to the House of Peoples, a single dose of respect should be shown to the Council of Instincts. What do I mean by that? If I get an agreement about a loan that is about a hundred million KM 15 minutes before the session starts, it's really pretentious to think that we're such economic experts here to assess in half an hour what this is about and to give our own judgment about it. Of course, since I'm not in that current government, I don't know the aspects, nor is it with me that the ambassador contacted or the high representative. I don't know what's important about those moments. Why is it urgent? Why is that necessary? What are the moments in this agreement? That's what the Council of Ministers will talk about when necessary. However, in order to preserve the credibility of this house and to honor the Poslvonik, who, indeed, knows extraordinary sessions and knows the other sessions. It doesn't say here it's an emergency session. This is a session. I'm calling the 21st session. So, in order to respect Poslvonik situation, I have a proposal that we schedule a session tomorrow, where this agreement and all the laws that are necessary and extremely urgent and extremely important will be held. Of course, tomorrow morning, let's hold committee meetings, make a statement, bring the court, consider hearing the Presidency's position, the Council of Ministers, and hold an extraordinary session in the afternoon, and because of this agreement, which is important that all the issues remain that have arrived on the agenda and that we end it tomorrow. I think we owe it to the public, because most of us here are professional MPs. So, my proposal please be put to the vote. I'm not ready to talk today, during this session, this way, after half an hour's break about this kind of agreement, especially as it appears in the public opinion that for this year, two centuries from now, about a billion credit-based debt has reached. I think it would be important to consider this debt figure both overall and current, so that 100 million-dollar loans could be considered. I would like to thank the delegate, Mr. Genjac. Who's next to the word? The vice-president, Mr. Šimić, is reporting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2633	I've given the consent of dear friends and respected colleagues to put this agreement on the agenda. Knowing that the Rules of Procedure are not precise enough for us, we have warned them more than once. My colleagues and Mr Špirić and Tokić are, in fact, right here. Both by quoting certain members have these members with their positive claims. I would opt for Mr Špirić's claim this time for a simple reason, because I think it was a positive intention and a desire to ratify an agreement and to, as it is said in the explanation, effect the credit on the budgets. My colleagues, I'm going to give the phone booth to whoever it is it takes, but there's little of us, and there's no need to flush while someone's at the pay phone. So, as far as the complexity of the agreement is concerned, I don't share that opinion, it's relatively simple, I don't belong to the experts of economic thought, but the intention of this agreement is relatively simple, and that's why I'm inclined to put it on the agenda and ratify it. The criticisms of the Council of Ministers are absolutely shared and signed, this is our reality, one paper that can really come in in five minutes is not there and these criticisms we really need to address and write. As for the international community, I am not inclined to use such an argument too much for the speaker. It's clear what she's serving. I do not belong to those who think that representatives of the international community, including the High Representative, are more concerned about our citizens and our peoples and this country than we are. Another thing is that certain aspects of government and opposition are doing everything they can to ensure that the occasional authority of international communities must be arbitration, even, which then creates the impression that greater concern is with them. That's not the point. It's about the possibility of arbitration, which is very sad when it comes to it. So we're a parliamentary home and it's a perfectly natural situation that in front of a session that has one item on the agenda that barely has a reason to argue that we now spend parliamentary energy 8 on the agenda. I respect and respect that very much, but I would still like to ask that we make a statement about the agenda and that we go to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2634	I would like to thank Co-chair Šimić. Mr. Jusufović answered for the word. I ask the representatives of the Council of Ministers, if they think it is necessary to take part in the debate and give the necessary explanations to answer the word, otherwise we will conclude the debate and declare the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2635	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, given that I am well aware now is the proposal to vote on the agenda, where next to the existing point would be included the one you spoke of. Since this is from the clear sky and from the Bosniak delegates' club we've already had the opportunity to hear the opinion of the three delegates, I think we need on behalf of the Club for 5 to 10 minutes to simply decide, in general, how we're going to vote on the agenda, given this new one.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2636	Mr. Jusufović, if we can take a break when we're exhausted, we'll give it a break ten minutes is not a dispute, or we'll give it an automatic break. Do you insist on taking a break right away?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2637	Anyway, before the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2638	Okay, thank you. Mr. Ilić, we're bringing the debate to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2639	Madam Chairman, fellow delegates, distinguished guests, I think the agenda is always an opportunity for certain things to be politicized. So let me make some of my contribution to that.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2640	I ask you if it is not necessary not to contribute to politicization but to debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2641	So here's when they got that second right why would I deny myself the right. Please, since I am a responsible man and I want to be responsible for those whose name I come forward here today, that is, we have recognised something that is reality today and that the citizens of BiH know, but here, or guess which they have never heard publicly, which is that there are cooperative and less cooperative politicians, or those who are courting the international community, is to gain some positions, because the international community here decides who will be in charge and who will not and not the citizens who choose it in the free elections. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2642	I beg you, first of all, on the agenda, Mr. Ilić. The agenda has two points.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2643	What I'm saying is about the second item of the agenda, which is, I want to tell the citizens of BiH, that irresponsible politicians, incompetent today, are in charge of our children for the next hundred years, because we are not able to solve some of the things we were obliged to solve, and, last time I warned when there was an agreement to put ourselves in charge to get foreign consulting aid for privatisation. And now I object to being over-indebted, because we're already in charge of not knowing how these debts will come back. He who owes can't be stable and can't be, has no dignity and everything we talk about falls into the water. He who is in debt must listen to him who is in debt, and therefore, contrary to any borrowing if that is why there is no fat argument, what the borrowing brings. If this borrowing brings about that tomorrow we're going to start production and we can repay that debt from there or we're going to sell out this little natural wealth that belongs to the entire people. That's why I called. I see here the role of the international community quite different from some politicians. I see them as people who have come to help us establish a normal system, not even to court each other and even sue each other there, so they're more and less cooperative. I will always accept the argument and always accept well-meaning advice if it goes in favour of the citizens of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2644	I thank my colleague Ilić. The word has Mr. Džaferović. I apologize to Minister Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2645	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I think we've completely lost 40 minutes of time at this session. I'd like to be explained here why there's such a rush and if BiH is going to lose anything if we have a regular session in 7-8 days, and it's scheduled to be 18. We'll have this agreement on the agenda. That thing hasn't been clarified here, and I don't think there's gonna be any damage in eight days, so by 18 or nine days. It will be a time for the relevant committee to sit down, to first question from this agreement, to give their judgment to us as delegates, and we will get to be 18 when the session is scheduled to be able to plead. I'd like to be explained here what the need for such a haste is in nine days. If that need exists, of course, I'll correct my position, but from what I've seen, so, reading this agreement during this debate, I don't think there's any irreparable damage in nine days and we can have it on the agenda already scheduled sessions. We got a call for a session for 18. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2646	I'd like to ask Mr. Minister if I can only make an explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2647	Then comes Mr Špirić and then Minister Mihajlović. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2648	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to try to answer why I think it's important that we have a ratification today and not 18 today. It is important because of the World Bank's procedures that supply funds and the socio-economic environment in BiH. It may not matter to those who have money and live happily in BiH. It is less important for them if someone goes on vacation, so BiH funds will withdraw in November and not July. It doesn't matter to someone that they're looking for funds to pay off demobilized fighters. For someone in this country, there's almost no urgency when it comes to funds. I must say, that the country after the war like BiH cannot do without credit funds and I beg you, is no problem and is given about the ratification of 18. So there's no, if we're going to ratify 18, there's no big problem not today either. Then where's the BiH concern? There can't be one agreement, gentlemen, that's a condition for everything that's got a problem on the agenda tomorrow. The time has passed for blackmail in this country called BiH, and that is why I think there are reasons for urgency, because it is modest procedures to withdraw funds, and it is not the same when citizens have nothing to eat, when demobilised fighters protest, whether the funds will withdraw, so perhaps I should speak differently in July or November, but this parliament can say that it does not need them at all, but assumes responsibility for the exercise of power in BiH. I think it's important to ratify the agreement as soon as possible if the House representatives want to ratify it 16th, so that the funds are withdrawn before August of the month and the World Bank warns and it has its own procedures. You know, and they place funds in the first half of the year and in the second half of the year and those that aren't rankings for the first six months aren't so available in the other six months. So we also need to know the procedures of those who lend us. That's why I'm asking you not to go today's political stories to plead on the agenda. We can vote in favour and against the agenda, but not to tie up other legal projects that I also appreciate are important to this.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2649	Just a minute. We thank Mr. Špirić. There is a replica Mr. Tokić replica already announced.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2650	I'm starting to be, indeed, fascinated by Mr. Chairman, but, really, I would say, allow a bit of a rough expression, degutantly now to summon fighters, pensioners to two days difference. Namely, 16. The House of Representatives has this in the regular procedure and 18 of us should adopt this appeal, it just starts to seem to me like a kind of intimation that's not good. And the drive of spite against procedures in the way you do it can even significantly compromise the ratification of this agreement and in this context I would call you by presiding, since you defacto, except for the paper in which it does not say that this is urgent to give up that potential, especially from those big words. I am staying at that position that, if the chairman or Mr. Mihajlović in the function of replacing the chairman states that these two days are very important, and therefore at the same time shows a valid argument that this home, regardless of these business procedures, enters the ratification of this agreement, of course, with a session of committees that are necessary and that in a certain way we end this business, but I would like to hear the argument, and I will listen carefully to what will happen to our fighters in these two days, given the speed of these procedures in the World Bank which you are very good at from Wednesday to 11 Friday, what our fighters might lose at that speed, as soon as we get that paper 15 minutes before this session. So stay out of big words, not just you chairmans, but everyone here and politicizing this whole initiative, simply because we are trying to resolve a certain matter here. Otherwise, we'll start with access and say it's important, but let me tell you, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2651	I thank Mr. Chairman. I don't think, of course, I'm not gonna get it, I'm not going to answer the word, if there really are people who don't understand what the 20 million budget of the Federation and the RS and BiH entities is 4 million. I really don't want to discuss it at all today. I'd pray, I'll make a contribution to it, I won't dissipate, but let's bring the debate to the agenda. You can vote yes and against not being convinced. We'll hear from Mr. Minister. Here's Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2652	Dear fellow ladies and gentlemen, just for a little while, Mr. Špirić, let me answer you. I was supposed to talk right after you, but here's what's there. As for the World Bank procedure, please, only if you explain to me that we will miss something in procedures by 18, please explain these procedures to me because these men from the Council of Ministers who know it better than we do. Therefore, it may be a reason to explain it to me. As for the economic and social situation, please don't, of course, you're right, but don't go on this project now because so far you've had a chance to worry about the economic and social situation and we've been coming out of this room with unaccepted projects because you haven't voted. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2653	I thank Mr Džaferović and for his personal warnings to me, although there is no reason for this agreement. Mr. Niko Sušac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2654	Mr. President, fellow envoys and guests, I was going to shut up this debate on the agenda, but it asked me to say a few sentences by Mr. Špirić to explain why something was urgent. Really that explanation has nothing to do with... We had a budget that we hadn't adopted in six months. We had those concession funds that we didn't adopt for half a year, and that was what the defenders needed for the pensioners and needed economic development of BiH. It's really not an explanation. It's really not an explanation. I think you should read the agreement, the committee in charge, to get it to the 18th to adopt it then. No problem is two days unless the Council of Ministers says BiH will experience some serious consequences unless an agreement is adopted in those two days. I don't want to cause controversy, but if I hadn't, I might have been present, except for one of these sessions, I wouldn't believe Mr. Špirić was the same person until he was president and now he's president. It's a shame the Constitution didn't allow him to be the president all the time, and I think it's all these laws to pass. I think that in the future it should be taken care of, if it were that person and there really would be a lot of 12 better and many laws, we shouldn't, maybe... maybe she was alone, if she called Mr. Tokić and Šimić and did not wrong Mr. Špirić until he was chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2655	I thank Mr. Niki. I think he finally said a wonderful word. Everyone will appreciate what's wrong and what's not and you'll all have a chance to say today whether you think it's urgent or not. So, by making your statement, you're going to make a contribution to who figured out what's going on in this country. I hope she's okay. Rijeka has Minister Mihajlović to remove part of the dilemma.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2656	The Honorable Chairman, respected delegates, fellow ministers, I will not, naturally, enter into the debate that has begun, I expect the next session will be the theme of these stories, but it is usually used and I think it is very good on this subject that someone points out that it is working to help the budgets of the entity of $19 million, which is important for the budgets of one and another entity from which, of course, will lend further funds to those who are most threatened that I do not explain it. Probably someone else will take advantage of the opportunity to speak on this subject. I just want to say here that the proposer of this agreement is the BiH presidency and not the Council of Ministers. As proposings, they should be present today to explain. It would probably be good for this agreement to be adopted as soon as possible, but since the 16th House of Representatives which should also ratify this agreement, your session 18 means, within two days, that procedure. It won't be catastrophic to be 18. But if he were to make sure today he could be from the Bureau to explain this. I don't think there's any reason why you don't listen to it today, accept it, because I believe that nothing for the next session will get an explanation of what you already have in the material. But since you only got it today, it would be good for someone from the presidency to explain it to you. As far as the Council of Ministers is concerned, we have done our part of the work, directed it to the Presidency. The Bureau also did so, perhaps late delivery of material or could not attend today. This relationship between you and the Presidency must find those relations to make it better, that that relationship better... We are prepared if we should also on behalf of the Presidency, i.e. what we had on the Council of Ministers to give you some further explanations, if you have put it on the agenda, but I think the Presidency is firstly called as a proposing of this Agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2657	I thank Minister Mihajlović. I'm closing the debate. We said no discussion after Minister Mihajlović. We'll have a break of 10 minutes. ...that the Council of Ministers, whose minister is a signator of this agreement, has no answer whether it is urgent or not, but in such a situation we are in. Thank you very much. Break 10 minutes. Let's continue the session. [[PAUZA]] We've closed the debate on the agenda. I suggest we join a statement on the agenda. Who's for the agenda you got in addition? 13
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2658	That's not how you vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2659	You've got the agenda. I beg you, no addition, you've got the agenda at the session. The chairman can, unless he's agreed to offer the agenda. Tokić was restrained. Who's for the agenda we got in addition?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2660	The draft agenda agreed by the College, which contains itself mandatory laws and has been adopted and does not have to vote on it. We have today's agenda a proposal to amend and supplement an election law that is undeniable. On the additions to the agenda or, possibly, removing some point if someone suggests voting.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2661	Thank you. Who's to supplement the agenda to include the agenda point on the ratification of this development loan? - 4 Who's against it? - 6 Who's abstentioned? 3 I find that the agenda has not been agreed by the delegates in the House of Peoples. Thank you. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. There is another suggestion that an extraordinary session of the House of Nations will be held tomorrow. To keep all emergency laws on the agenda without those laws. Who's for this proposal Mr...
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2662	It's not business. An emergency session is scheduled or a club,
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2663	Since the conclusion is not in line with the Rules of Procedure, we cannot plead. Thank you. Ad.1. Amendments and additions to the Electoral Law, Member of the 100th Proposer Council of Ministers, I am opening the debate. Who's calling for an argument. First, Minister Mihajlović is a proposing representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2664	Dear delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I will only try to introduce you to the amendment and addition of the BiH Election Law. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2665	I would ask Mr Spahić to be parliamentary to listen to his colleagues because they listen to him too.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2666	This is about amendments and additions to the electoral law concerning, in line with the constitutional amendments to the constitutions of one and the other entities and concerns changes to special elections, above all for the president and vice-president of the Federation of BiH, the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH, the election of delegates in the RS Council. You have previously accepted amendments and additions to the electoral law declared by the High President, and these are amendments and additions that are not covered by...
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2667	I'd like to ask Mr Spahić once more if I warn him he'll have to leave the gym. I'll use the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2668	Here is the indirect selection of relevant bodies in the Federation, or RS. Article 1 of these amendments regulates the election of the president and vice-president of the Federation of BiH, in line with constitutional amendments, and you see here in Article 9.13 that the election of the president and vice-president of the Federation of BiH is proposed by at least one third of the delegates of the Clubs of Constitutional Peoples in the House of the Federation, and that the list forms the Federation of BiH's House of Representatives and therefore, these lists are later under procedure, i.e. a declaration. Article 2 of these amendments regulates, therefore, Chapter X behind sub-chapter (a) adds a new sub-chapter (b) which is the choice of the House of the People of the Federation of BiH. The cantonal legislative bodies are scheduled here to elect 58 delegates to the House of Peoples, 17 in the order of Bosniaks, 17 in the order of the Serb and 17 in the order of the Croatian people and 7 in the order of others. The work here is provided for in Article 10.11., 10.12., and in particular this is all worked out in Article 9.16 on cantons as much as the canton proposes, i.e. selecting delegates in the House of the Federation of BiH on the basis of constitutional amendments, i.e. on the basis of the '91 census. The year at BiH level, with this in terms of cantons, has come exactly, and in advance it is known how many cantons it proposes, i.e. it chooses delegates in the House of Peoples, and a total of 58. As far as RS is concerned, the election of delegates in the Council of Nations has been regulated by Article 3 of these amendments and amendments and is provided for under constitutional amendments that the RS Council is numbering 28 delegates. Also, 8 in the order of three constituent peoples and 4 in the order of the other peoples. It was razraditi here in Article 11.11., 11.12 of the next members as the election takes place in the Council of the People of the Republic of RS. I am still obliged here to say that there are also technical errors in Article 11.10 relating to the election of delegates in the Council of Peoples. The 2nd position of the Council of Nations consists of 8 members of Serbia, 8 Bosniaks, 8 of the ranks of the Croatian people and 4 of the others. This is in line with Article 10.10 and on the same principle, because it is said here, it is listed which co-constitutive peoples, although what is to assume as it is said here, but we insist that in the same way count the peoples as it is in 11.10. One, too, technical correction at 11.11. here in the first position, members of the Council of Nations elect a burning club here delegates, not delegates, but MPs in the National Assembly, that's a mistake. 15 This would be short notices, reservations, related to changes and additions to the BiH Election Law. We want to round up the election law of BiH now, that we have a full law that hopefully one and the other home will issue a warrant to do the consolidated text, so that the sooner we have in one place an electoral law that is unequivocal, clear, which will allow political parties to join the campaign, i.e. on which the 5 October elections will be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2669	I thank Minister Mihajlović. I warn you that, of course, you delegate that we are having a debate on the procedure of Article 100 and that we must first declare whether we are in favour of the procedure of Article 100 and that we are opening a debate on the declaration further. Is there anyone who wants to talk about the procedure of the 100th Rules of Procedure? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who is it to rule this law according to Article 100? Do you mind? - 2 Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I find that with 11 for – 2 against and no abstentions have adopted the procedure of Article 100. Rules of Procedure. I am opening a debate on the content of amendments to the Election Law and I thank Minister Mihajlović for these opening arguments concerning the essence of the amendments and the filling of the gaps in the Permanent Election Law. Who's answering for a word? First Genjac and then Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2670	Dear colleagues, esteemed guests, I cannot... the view that this proposal is an amendment to the electoral law unequivocal, clear, precise and completes the existing Electoral Law. By understanding the speed and ambience in which this legal solution was created, I, however, express a series of remarks that I could share in three groups. One group of comments are technical remarks, which can be removed, which are a minor problem. The second group of objections are not... rather vague, ambiguous, imprecise and sometimes not an appropriate text of this bill. Of course, I'll list everything in each member. The third group of objections are the essential nature of which I will speak specifically. When it comes to technical remarks in article 11.10, which Mr. Mihajlović was already talking about. The Council of Nations shall consist of 8 members, eight members of each constituent nation could be understood. I thought that was where eight members of each constitutive people were supposed to intervene, but alternatively it can be counted as the minister said. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the So Article 11 point 12. Each political party represented in the clubs of delegates of relevant constituent peoples and others or each member of one of these delegation clubs shall include members of the elected party, in accordance with Article 1 stv 2. They have the right to propose one or more candidates on the list for the selection of delegates of the relevant club delegates. I asked for this Article 2 and Section 2 and I couldn't find which member that is, Section 2. Indeed, I could not find which article 2 and which attitude 2 is thought of. 16 In Article 11, the third position, unless such a candidate is present, a new choice shall be held for the relevant constitutional people in accordance with Articles 11(3) and 11(4) of this Act. I've been looking for 11 points 3 and 11 of point 4 gone, and in the Electoral Law, he hasn't even been there. It's possible to think of the 11th and 11th points, but I couldn't find this. These are technical remarks, especially as this bill has been discussed at the House of Representatives, which one variant has arrived to me 25.7. The second version seems to me to be 7.7. I think it was time for these shortcomings to be technicalally addressed. The following thing is more serious remarks are vague, ambiguous, in a small way inaccurate and sometimes not an appropriate dictionary used in this law. Namely, Article 9.16. He says delegates in the BiH House of Peoples can participate in the election of candidates for president and vice president. However, no other club will be formed on this occasion and their vote will not be counted on by calculating certain majority in the clubs of constitutive peoples' representatives. This translated, means that when the others vote, they can vote, but their vote doesn't matter. I think there were more elegant solutions in both the procedure and the decision-making law, respecting the votes of others, than this solution, especially since we have a two-step road in certain situations and elections and voting in the House of Peoples. Here in several places are mentioned clubs of members, clubs of the people where they don't exist. It looks like every delegate, Article 10.14. Every delegate in the Cantonal Assembly casts a vote, one vote for a list of his respective clubs. Article 11.12. Each political party represented in the clubs of delegates of relevant constituent peoples and other or each member of one of these delegation clubs, including members selected in accordance with Article 2(2) of I said, shall have the right to propose one or more candidates on the list for the selection of delegates of that relevant club of delegates. This is about the National Assembly. As far as we know, there are no clubs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Furthermore, Article 10.12 says that the club of delegates from every constitutive nation in the ranks of others who are elected to the House of Peoples of the Legislative Part of each canton is proportional to the number of canton residents according to the last census. This is, therefore, Article 19.16. which sets out delegations from a certain canton to the House of the People of the Federation, and then in Article 19.16. says, until the full implementation of Annex VII of the General Framework Agreement for Peace, the distribution of places by the constituent people, which is perfectly arranged in Chapter X of Section (a) of this Act takes place in accordance with this article to the organisation of a new census, as the basis of the list of '91 is used. For years, so each canton chooses its next number of delegates. So the list of the population in that canton and that the team reflects the census said in the former member, and now it's specific for these elections and for this opportunity. And when cantons are taken, say Canton Sarajevo, where 11 delegates are elected, 3 in the Bosniak order, 1 in the order of Croatia, 5 in the order of Serbian and 2 in the order of others. When a census was taken last in the Sarajevo Canton, there were around 50% of Bošnjak participating in this delegation with 27%. The Srbin were 27% participating with 45% in the delegation. The Hrvat were 7 participating with 9% etc. Drastic deviations in the grass canton, i.e. in Central Bosnian, Hercegovic Neretva Canton in the relations of Bošnjak Hrvat. In Travnik, for example, there were 43% of Bošnjak in April and mid-BiH, 17% in the delegation, 36% in the delegation, 17% in the delegation, 37% in the Bošnjak Bridge Canton was 37% in the delegation, the Hrvat were 40% in the delegation, 50% in the delegation, etc. I understand certain deviations that must have arisen from each canton to one of each constituent people's choices, but the deviations were also to say the vibes of that need that has arisen. I simply don't understand which formula this is calculated. Next thing you know, in a few places, the dictionary of the law is quite imprecise. I'll give you an example. There are plenty of examples. By election, let's say Article 9.13 - by election of the President and Vice-President of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, at least 1/3 of the delegates of the clubs of the constituent peoples in the House of the Federation, proposes candidates for the post of president and vice-president of the Federation. This can be understood in the following ways that 1/3 of all the clubs, let's say, of the Serbian club of MPs, propose all three candidates for the president and vice president of the Federation and have that list; that 1/3 of all clubs are deliberately proposing three people and making a list, or that 1/3 of one club has the right to propose only one, or the people from which the club is from. So it's completely inaccurate here, it's completely multiple ways of being ambiguous, in a number of ways it can be understood. I'm potentiating on this precision for the reason that we already have the electoral law that we've adopted, we have certain dilemmas. Namely, just for example to point out. When we have adopted a provision that speaks of the political party's concession 3% there it is clear that in the cantonal congregations etc. Who doesn't have cesusa can't. However, for the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, for the Federation Parliamentary Assembly, the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the interpretation from the Election Commission is the following – who does not have 3% in the election unit of a multi-member electoral unit, has no right to participate in the division of mandates in the election unit. However, he has the right to participate in compensatory mandates. Here we are when we passed the Election Law we understood it only if someone does not win the election units of office, of course there is no right to participate in the compensatory mandates, because the compensation mandates are compensation for something damaged in the constituency. We have officially sent to the Election Commission and the Election Commission has officially responded that whoever does not win 3% in the constituency has the right to participate in the distribution of compensation mandates. So official interpretation and starting with certain inaccuracies, perhaps indetermination in the electoral law that we passed so that nothing actually changes, you know. political parties that do not win in election units suminate votes and then participate in compensatory mandates. Therefore, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Federation and RS are not changing anything. So there are more inaccuracies in a certain number of members of the Electoral Law. In mentioning the clubs of the people in these congregations, where there are no clubs of the people, in proposing. It is unclear in the second round, if the first list of candidates for presidents and vice-presidents of the Federation does not win the House of Nations the required majority, so it returns to the House of Representatives, it is unclear whether the same candidates can be the candidates again. There's no mention of any of this and I can't and I can't. So it's not clearly defined. It's not really forbidden in law, I understand that I can, but I think that should have been more precise. And finally, I will make one fundamental observation to this proposal for amendments and additions to the Election Law. Namely, in the Electoral Law adopted by us by Article 9.1, I am talking about the Electoral Law, not the complete Electoral Law that we have adopted. 18 Article 9.1 says – the way delegates are elected in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina is regulated in accordance with Article 18 of the 16th Act. And then I read Article 18 of the 16th point of this law, which says, that member – until the final regulation of the election of delegates in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, their election will be conducted in accordance with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Pay attention to this, please. So, '99. 2000 and '98. For three years, there was a debate on the draft election law, a very fierce debate, a 5-6 version of the bill. The most intense debate and the greatest stumbling block for the adoption of the Electoral Law was then a proposal to elect delegates to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly and members of the Bureau. because the election of delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina regulates that the Constitution states that 5 are elected from the territory of RS, 10 from the territory of the FBiH and from the territory of RS can only be Srbin, and from the territory of the FBiH 5 Bošnjak, 5 Hrvat. Many at the time have rightly shown that this is contrary to the Convention on Human Rights, to the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and to a Copenhagen document that regulates universally equal voting rights. So these were very heated debates, I say many have justifiably pointed out that and that was the reason why not then to adopt the Electoral Law. Especially were those who were then opposition, saying that it was discrimination, that it was a certain kind of fascism, that it was against European conventions, that this compromise should not be made then and that it cannot be made with those forces that are for status quo. That's if one man's right to harm is that the right of the entire people or others has been violated. All right, so I'm quoting from the debate that was then on the bill that was then led. We, after all of this in the Election Law, have this solution that was then declared discriminatory, so we have a solution that is discriminatory, which is in conflict with the European Convention, with the Copenhagen document and it is at this point in the Election Law. I voted in favour of the Electoral Law by believing and believing that after the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people and non-discrimination would arise that moment when this issue should finally be resolved. The Constitutional Court has made a decision, amendments have been made. Those who then strongly criticised this arrangement are now even very relevant factors both in the Council of Ministers and in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the relevant commissions. Niko one mentions this question. And the worst part of the amendment and addition of the Electoral Law is this issue is not treated at all. So after the decision made by the High Representative on certain parts of the law, and if we adopt such a proposal to amend and supplement the Election Law, then these two amendments and after this whole procedure, we will have an Electoral Law that is again incomplete. It is not a complete Electoral Law, which says the election of delegates will be conducted in accordance with the Constitution. Because that means everything else is being chosen against the Constitution, is that it means everything else is being understood. How this, every other delegate in each home of the people, a prescribed formula, a defined method of voting, a set of procedures, a proposed, a designated body that votes, a designated body that chooses, etc. The constitution here has quite narrowly regulated this issue, and the Electoral Law states that this will be regulated in accordance with the Constitution. So this is a fundamental remark to this proposal for a decision to amend the Election Law. It is inappropriate for me to have an incomplete Electoral Law again after all this, especially discriminatory Election Law. And this is with technical disadvantages that can be removed, with solutions that can be fixed, this is still a fundamental remark that I say this law, this bill of amendments and additions to the Election Law cannot be accepted. Thank you. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2671	I thank Mr. Genjac. I'm just asking you, we've pleaded on the procedure of article 100. It's a procedure to take or leave. We can leave all day to discuss technical and essential shortcomings, but eventually we will have to plead according to the procedure we have spoken of. I draw attention to the fact that the Representative Council has adopted amendments and additions in the same text and that each or even the smallest technical correction delays the procedure indefinitely. For a word he answered, so I'm just turning my attention to all of us, and Mr. Tokić, Mr. Ibro Spahić, took the floor. Before he answered, Mr. Tokić has no real reason to.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2672	I thank the Chairman, I fully agree that our debate should be conducted in the direction of argument for the adoption of this law or against the adoption of this law. I think that the argument for the adoption of this law is so strong that it may be even at this point and excessively questionable given the fact that the elections are already scheduled and that these amendments and additions to the Electoral Law are something that we should have already done to ensure that this entire electoral procedure, the electoral procedure, could be legal and legitimate. However, perhaps if someone listened to Mr. Genjac because of those who listened, and because of the public, he would not want to leave without a stenogram of two issues that may have political weight. One question is a very skilled replacement of the thesis on the number of delegates in the Federation House from the aspect of the number of Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak, whether it is from Sarajevo Canton. If the number of peoples of the Federation or the Council of the People in Republika Srpska were built on the basis of proportions, then it would certainly not have the same number of delegates of the Bosniak and Croatian people in Republika Srpska, nor would it have the same number of delegates in the Federation, so that the entire bill was in fact a skillfully replaced the thesis of the proportion of data from which the canton will be selected by a certain number of Srbin should be seen from the aspect of the proportion of the presence of Serbian national citizens in individual cantons of '91. in a way to provide 17 delegates. I needed this clarification, because this is how it's unexplained it seems very timid. If this proportion and logic was built by Mr Genjac applied, for example to Republika Srpska, then in proportion to the current population of Bošnjak from all the regions of Republika Srpska, there would be 2 or 3 MPs, which is of course not in the spirit of the Constitutional Court's decision on full equality of all three peoples. The second question is the total replacement of the the thesis that the Constitutional Court's decision referred to the election procedure of members of the Presidency and delegates in the House of Peoples, since this was established by the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a procedure and of course the Constitutional Court has no authority to comply with the Constitution with its own provisions and not even with the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms. This is not the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, but what is important and why we have all voted here for the Electoral Law, which was in a certain way our last condition for entry into the Council of Europe, is a guarantee which was eventually accepted and signed by all the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the entity that the Constitution, Election Law 20 and the entire constitutional system within the deadlines provided for a year, I mean for these election procedures after the reception, or for two years for other acts, will be brought into line with the European Convention on Human Rights. So this guarantee of removing discrimination stands as an obligation which we will remove within the planned time period that we have discussed, and even at the level of providing expert assistance and support during the last visit of the Monitoring delegation. This is just for the public so it doesn't stay unsaid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2673	I thank Mr. Tokić. Who's on the phone for a word? Mr Ibrahim Spahić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2674	Thank you very much. Madam Chairman, I have come forward to say that it is quite clear in the procedure that a member of the 100th is acting on pirnicape to take or leave and vote for a debate under Article 100 on this law normally that the House of Nations has determined to bring this procedure to an end under Article 100. It's clear to everyone. Another debate that is possible to open the same business would like to say three things. First, I express my complete dissatisfaction that at no stage did those who created changes and amendments to the Election Law, even in the period after what happened after the changes in the constitutions of Republika Srpska and the Federation kept their position when it came to representatives of national minorities. And I have to say, it's just unacceptable. Representatives of national minorities, all who are in Bosnia and Herzegovina at their congress a year ago, have made it clear that they do not accept that they are treated as others. They are simply by all European world standards of modern countries and state representatives of their national minorities. And it was a minimum that could and should have been satisfied, and there was no reason why what used to be true with Srbin, Bošnjak and Hrvat in Republika Srpska and the Federation would now be transferred to representatives of national minorities. It is simply an initial discriminatory position in determining the names of people who have Russian, Jewish, Albanian, Roma or any other, Ukrainian nationality and should be respected because it is also an integral part of the legitimately expressed individual will of citizens, citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in '91. the years when they declared in a certain percentage that they belonged to their national community. And no controversial legislator policy at any level, whether it was domestic international representatives, should have violated that integrity that everyone freely expressed in the '91 census. A year. It should not be forgotten. It's simply because this debate needs to be made clear, to say simply that thing. I don't think we can change that now, but that should be said, not to satisfy these representatives, but to simply legislator when doing a job must respect the individual will of every man. It would fall on any parliament in any country, and it could never go as simply as a normal thing. That's the first thing. The other thing is the unequal and politically incorrect principle of inconsequential respect for citizens' will in Republika Srpska and the Federation when it comes to the election of presidents and vice presidents of the Federation, namely the president and vice president of Republika Srpska. It is absolutely, in 21 one country in two ways to solve the problem of voter will and educators is a simple structure that has been imposed by one false compromise and a story about how this stems from certain constitutional arrangements or heritage that we have in the past few years. And the third thing that I wanted to say and, of course, with that first special note of mine, Bosnia and Herzegovina lives in time as I stated about the representatives of the national minorities, as well as about our home of the people and the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina in full political discrimination. I'm sorry my colleague Tokić isn't here. I would like to say that he is wrong, simply because the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina says, and we have all called on this and we call for this framework convention, or the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights above all acts, including what is called constitutional solutions. That's what the first members of the BiH Constitution say. And as far as political discrimination is concerned, it is true that we have adopted this electoral law, but it is also true that this House has accepted it under very certain circumstances politically realizing that it is responsible that the House is legislative as well as a House of Representatives which in some way sanctions political discrimination and given the price paid that, since the internal will was not politically available, through the Council of Europe, the Venice Commission and international authorities is to be provided and this needs to be clearly told to the public by the change of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this change will come because it is entirely unnatural for the House to say to the Council of People in Republika Srpska, which numbers 8-Srbin8-8-4. So either that Dom 58 members who have equal presence of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak and the presence of representatives of national minorities who are called only the Bošnjak and Hrvat. It's absolutely a yen of discrimination that's institutionalized. I would simply like to warn that, as the House today adopts these amendments in the Electoral Law, as we have adopted the Election Law, we need to make clear and write down at least because of my memory for the coming year that this parliamentary assembly of BiH must amend the Election Law, amend the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and since I have already submitted these views to this House, which is also the proposed amendment of the BiH Constitution, I hope that this will take place beyond the specific intervention of the Council of Europe, the Venice Commission and others. And I want, of course, the success of those who work on it. I do not believe that Mr Špirić and the College will schedule several sessions to ensure that these projects could be the reality of this October 5th term, with all honor and honor of our commitment to the summer holiday. And I support therefore that we adopt these electoral changes in the law to simply create conditions for us to normise things and on 5 October ensure that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH with these notes has the opportunity to get what is most important to the two-thirds parliamentary majority in the House of Representatives, that it has...
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2675	I beg you, Mr Spahić, today are amendments to the election law, you already in October, January, next year. Well, I hope so too, today we stick to the agenda and what we've come to know about. I respect Mr Genjac and Džaferović's discussion and they didn't even vote in favour of the procedure. But those who voted in favour of procedure 100 should open up a likely debate about this item of the wedding agenda, the wedding process. Mr. Džaferović answered for the word. Here you go. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2676	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to me, therefore, that in the procedure adopted by which this law will be discussed and voted on, there is no possibility of amendment, but I have a need to say for this speaker what I am motivated and what are the reasons why I will vote against this law. So far, I have voted in favour of all the texts of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Electoral Law, the basic text that was a condition for Bosnia and Herzegovina's admission to the Council of Europe and all three amendments to the Electoral Law by the High Representative. And for that change to move the deadline by one day for the announcement of elections and for those amendments relating to the registration of political parties and the non-compliance of candidates and to changes relating to multi-member constituencies. I have listed only the most characteristic provisions and the most characteristic solutions from these amendments and additions of the Election Law, which, of course, I voted for as a delegate of this House. Why can't I support the text of this law today? Dr Genjac listed several groups of reasons that I fully accept. I'm going to try in my own way to make a systematicisation of the reasons why I can't support this law, or to name several groups. The first group refers to the non-compliance of the resolutions of this law with the constitutions, including constitutional changes that occurred at the entity level when determining the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people, and it is known that this law therefore draws the military of solutions from the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the entity constitutions. Let's say, it's very interesting, as an example of this group of reasons, I'm just going to point out one example, so I'm not going to further explain it in Article 9.13 -- when electing the president and vice president of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina at least 1/3 of the delegates of the clubs of the constituent peoples in the House of the Federation peoples, he proposes candidates for the post of president and vice president of the Federation. As far as I know, it is possible that I am wrong, I would like to be corrected and said to be wrong, but in the existing constitutional solutions when it comes to the Constitution of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is not at least 1/3, but at least 3 delegates. So this solution reduced the right set out in the amendments to the Constitution of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But here's what I'd like to say is that I'm wrong so he can make me right. As an MP, when I read this matter, I usually feel that it was clear to me that I was thinking about carrying out a complete procedure. So I guess the situation and I'm trying to perform a full procedure. So I tried to carry out in my head a full selection procedure for the president and two vice-presidents of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Articles 9.13 and 9.14 and trust me that I have encountered a lot of problems and I don't know what the election procedure will look like tomorrow after this solution. So I am legally speaking the procedure for electing the president and vice president of the Federation. It is said that in the election of the president and vice president of the Federation, the deployment of 1/3 of the delegates of the Clubs of Constitutional Peoples in the House of the Federation is proposed candidates for the seats of the president and vice president of the Federation. That means three clubs can theoretically propose three candidates. So theoretically. Out of order, it further says in Article 9.14 -- the order of clubs under Article 9.13 of this law forms common lists of candidates for the post of president and vice-president of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's going to form those lists? That's a vague question. What combination of these nominated candidates will represent lists on which one Bošnjak, one Hrvat and one Srbin will be on? Who's gonna make the 23rd list? So who's gonna make that list? Because it is said that these lists go, the common lists go to the House of Representatives and are then confirmed by the majority of the votes of the constituent peoples in the House of Peoples, and if they do not receive confirmation in the House of Peoples, then it applies after the second round, after the repeat procedure, what the House of Representatives has established. Who's going to make this joint list that's going to be voted on by the House of Representatives? The law does not say that the House of Representatives, as I hear it now, will, in fact, produce one candidate at a time those common lists, but it is said that common lists will be made and that then those common lists or common lists, depending on how many they are, will go to the House of Representatives. I had a problem here, so the technical problem is that until the end of it, when I was trying to demonstrate this situation to myself to explain it to myself, he came across the problem. So here we are, alive and well seen. This is probably going to be adopted here today in this home. We'll wait for it won't be a long time to elect a president and two vice-presidents of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so you'll see and probably remember what I'm talking about today. The next group of reasons is actually the incompleteness of the Electoral Law. We have passed an earlier Electoral Law that did not contain the key provisions that we are now trying to regulate by this law. The choice of us sitting here, and we are called the House of Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so the election of delegates in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina remains unarranged by the Election Law. So we will continue to have incomplete Election Law in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why wasn't it done with these changes and additions? I can assume I have an opinion too. I am not going to present it now, but I am just drawing attention to the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina and after three changes imposed by the High Representative and what will be adopted here today will not have a full Electoral Law, and under the full Electoral Law we mean that law governing the choice of all authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina who are elected in the elections. And the next group of reasons that make up one feature of this text is the mutual opposite of the solutions set out in the Electoral Law. So Dr Genjac was talking about it. I have no intention of repeating it, is contrary to Article 10.12 of the position 1 which says that the number of delegates from every constituent nation in the order of others who are elected to the House of Peoples and the legislative body of each canton is proportional to the number of inhabitants of the canton according to the last list. In order to establish, in Article 19.16a, Article 2 of points 1 to 10 when it comes to the selection of delegates from individual cantons in the House of Peoples of the Federal Parliament, solutions that fully differ from this principle set out in Article 10.12. The truth is limited to some part of the constitutional decisions, because from each canton it must be a representative of at least one constituent nation, but also when that bill is included, this is once again countered by the provisions of Article 10.12. If the nations are equal throughout the territory of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, if they are equal in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, might it not have been better if we had received here today the text of the Electoral Law, which, if the election of delegates in the House of the Federal Parliament was a matter of perhaps the next solution. I don't know if anyone here has considered, say, from seven of these larger cantons being representatives of two of each constitutive people, and here from these smaller cantons, three cantons are one representative of each constitutive nation. Wasn't that a better solution, but now we're having a real debate here and we see solutions that don't even match the 91st-year census? That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2677	I thank Mr. Džaferović. Wrong quote Mr. Genjac, then Ivo Živković. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2678	I waited for my colleague Tokić to come back, but we can't wait any longer. After his fellow Tokić was invited to two things, first if someone listened to Mr Genjac. Maybe there were a few people listening in this room. I understand, this is a problem that needs to be well embedded in the Electoral Law, a good part of people isn't interested and maybe, I don't know. But I'm not handling whether anyone here listens to me very carefully. I'm in charge of saying what's an observation to keep it in writing, because with these problems we're going to face. And I think it's important what the public thinks. That's one thing. Two remarks from counterpart Tokić referring to my discussion. I did not make any substitutes for the thesis or try it, because the zakon says in Article 10.12 that national delegations from the canton for the House of Peoples will reflect the structure of the population of that canton. That the percentage representation of every constituent nation in that delegation will reflect the structure of that canton. I know that the distribution of this people within the Federation must be respected completely, but the structure of the canton is also stated to be proportionate to the structure of the delegation for the House of Peoples of the Canton. That's why I pointed out the illogicalness of saying this in one member, in another member calling for a 91st list of vague reasons quite a hindrance. So, I have no purpose or intention to make a replacement-- I'm making that question more. But the more important thing, the more important thing that would not have really been mentioned in the discussion would not have been addressed, we had a debate at the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 99 on the Electoral Law that was then proposed in co-operation with the international community. Only two sentences three from Mr. Tokić's discussion at the time. - This 21st-century law promotes discrimination and segregation. We need to look ourselves in the eye at this moment and think whether anyone has the right to leave an undefined discriminatory position over 1/3 of BiH's population and prevent people from ever being run for office or having passive voting rights to choose from the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. etc. I don't want to read any more. Mr Tokić now states that certain experts from the Council of Europe will handle it, etc. Possibly, I believe. But it's about time that this issue was resolved, because there would be a moment when this election law supplement is done, because there is no after this experiment. The elections will be held in October after this, therefore. The elections in October following these additions to the Electoral Law will be held with members who, according to Mr. Tokić's assessment, are discriminatory. In other words, let's hold elections by members who are discriminatory, and then some exhibitors will consider the Electoral Law and resolve the issue. In other words, the four-year elections will be held, and then a group will eventually consider. I think that's too bad. I mean, especially given that the term of office is four years, that the issue should have been resolved before these elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2679	I would like to thank Mr. Genjac, Mr. Ivo Živković, the delegate. Are there any more reported for discussion? There isn't. netačan quote, Mr. Niko. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2680	Mr. Chairman, fellow envoys, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests from the Council of Ministers and the international community, I also want to make a brief summary of my thoughts on the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law. I commend the Council of Ministers' involvement in this problem at this supplement that we have a clear and precise Electoral Law on Elections that are irrevocably scheduled for 5.10. These changes and additions also complement the part that is not incorporated, which remained out as far as I, if I followed that problem well, what remained outside of the decision of the High Representative, outside the Election Law. However, I must express one of my personal dissatisfaction when it comes to the choice of establishing the House of the Peoples of the Federation Parliament and, in particular, Article 4. 19.16, so this new article 19.16a, when it comes to the distribution of sites of constitutive peoples by cantons. Respecting the precision and improbability of mathematics that is here is what I have to do on behalf of my canton from which I come, which is the Posava Canton and we have so far had five representatives in the House of Nations, now by this calculation we have 3. I commend that every constituent nation is represented in every canton, which is very important, but in the name of the canton I come from, which is that we don't talk about the past first disguised in Dayton, and then there are very bad results of returning to its immediate surroundings, etc. Thank God it's been going better lately. So, I don't have, since I'm a legalist and I've accepted Article 100, and especially to joke about Mr. Šimić coming out for another meeting, I have to say "for" to have a proposal for a majority in the Federation, because at this point, as far as I can see, according to the number of fellow envoys, it can be very questionable, and the only thing that remains for me is the personal dissatisfaction that I think is well justified. It remains in the future that perhaps when better political conditions and climate are created and, above all, there is a new division of political will forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina that these issues that are today so-called and discriminatoryly determined discrimination that has indeed remained, as well as the distribution of perhaps by cantons and what Mr Džaferović was talking about, it is also very important, it is the establishment of this high house in which we sit where the OSCE has changed the rules several times, and now there is doubt about its constitution, my personal thinking, and thus I end up that the man who comes here must be elected somewhere. Such a proposal can now come from the order of citizens, so it can challenge the legality and legitimacy of such persons, but then in the future. It's what it is now. So, I'm considering the entity majority that is needed, I'm going to have to plead for this, because I've accepted article 100, but it's the only thing I can do right now to express my personal dissatisfaction with what I've said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2681	I thank Mr. Živković. There's a word, a false quote or an incorrect quote, Mr. Niko. Here you go. Incorrect or incorrect quote, combination of language. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2682	Mr. Chairman, fellow envoys, would not interfere in the Tokić – Genjac pole, but would still comment on Article 10.12. Namely, he says – the number of envoys from each constitutive people from the ranks of others who are elected to the House of Peoples of the Legislative Body of each canton is proportional to the number of canton residents according to the last list. This isn't about the people. That means 200 thousand has the Herzegovic Neretva County, and Sarajevo has 400,000 inhabitants. Sarajevo will have twice as many envoys in the House of the Peoples, no word of which people. There's a catch. As far as choosing the people, there may be 100,000 Hrvat in HN County and 100,000 Bošnjak. This does not mean that it will be equal in the House of Peoples, because a total of Bošnjak and Hrvat can be 500 thousand, for example, in the Federation and 1 envoy place carries what it is, 25 thousand, and the Bosniak may carry 80,000. They're just little math traps, so it wasn't the House of Peoples. And Mr. Džaferović can't have three envoys. Two. Seventeen envoys in the House of Peoples and there are no 3/3 that's 2/3, because 17 is not divisible by 3. And if he would allow himself a comment, probably the parliamentary majority in the House of Representatives will form a list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2683	I thank Mr. Niki. I'm closing the debate. No more reports. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2684	Dear chairman, fellow delegates, that it should not be that we Srbin have nothing to say about the Election Law and amendments to the Election Law, and that we are not too happy with this electoral law and with the proposed amendments and additions. So, it is quite clear, gentlemen, that the 5th election and that our position here after the adoption of the law in the House of Representatives is quite clear and that the non-election here, of course, has certain consequences. So gentlemen, as far as we Srbin are concerned, we will vote in favour of the law and dissatisfied as the others who will vote and be dissatisfied.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2685	I thank Mr. Novaković. The word is Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2686	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I will vote in favour of the Electoral Law, and I must say as well as my colleague Novaković that I am not happy with the solutions given here. In fact, I am basically not happy with what the Council of Ministers after what, 2-3 of their meetings on this topic managed to bring it together, etc. Well, one of the solutions is that I don't know any of my colleagues talked about and distributed this one by cantons. 27 What Niko has spoken mathematics is quite clear here, and it is explicit, and here if this principle is accepted, and he is accepted here, then there is nothing to pollemise there. But the question arises: is it the right principle? I think Mr. Džaferović spoke of some other and third principles and to me personally as a man is sorry that the different principles were not crossed by the promoter, so perhaps a better form was sought. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2687	I thank Mr. Divković. The word is Mr. Dragutin Ilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2688	I just want to make a point to the Council of Ministers that this has been one sloppy proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2689	I thank Mr. Ilić for his brief discussion. Špirić, chairman of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, answered the words.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2690	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished delegates, esteemed guests, I think today is a good time to come to round up legal legitimacy so the elections on October 5th can be held. So I think that all those who have made an effort to get a proposal like this that will be adopted today, regardless of this ferocity of criticism and objections, and if we have declared ourselves a member of the 100. Rules of Procedure, I will make my contribution by voting for these amendments and supplementing the awareness that the Election Law is not ideal, that if there is political will it is subject to changes and changes after the elections, but to creating such a will should be done in the future. I think the Council of Ministers and the Election Commission itself and OHR have done a good job of offering the proposal. Niko one defended the MPs to make their own proposal. It might be good today if we had this proposal with, where to God forbid human rights are violated which is idealistic or much more ideal than what we got, but in any case I will support this proposal. I think it is very important that we, in this act today, complete the creation of so-called rounding of this formal legal legitimacy so that the elections are held on 5 October. And all those who have put forth effort and for such a proposal are grateful, and it is up to us whether in this congregation or in the future it is a challenge to create an atmosphere for human rights violations to be as little as possible on the ground as possible, and not that human rights violations are not in the legal proposals, and that we can meet cases of human rights violations on the ground on every metre. So, I'm going to vote for this proposal and I don't think he's that bad and I don't think it's so discriminatory, because if I said these words today that were spoken by those who voted for Article 100's procedure, never remember to raise your chart for that law. But that only speaks of our, unfortunately hypocrisy. Thank you very much. The word has Minister Mihajlović. That concludes the debate. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2691	Dear delegates, I've heard all your remarks and it's a good thing he has a comment. We also held a lengthy debate on these changes and additions at the Council of Ministers. We had first certain alternatives per few, by two three alternatives for the individual solutions that you have talked about here today, but of course since this is a 100th article that must go to the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives we had to clear up those alternatives and propose solutions without alternatives and there have been some compromises, and these compromises have been translated right here. We couldn't step in, move forward with constitutional solutions, the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina which is clear, regardless of having shared opinions that some of the provisions of the Election Law are not in line with the highest conventions on human rights, etc. etc. It is of course a matter for perhaps the next parliament when it is discussed, given that we are now a member of the Council of Europe and that the procedure is known how and how certain amendments to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina that regulate the election of the Presidency can take place, above all Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. But we had to stick to the Constitution and the Constitution made it clear how members of the Presidency were elected, regardless of the opinions we heard here and many times earlier when adopting the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So it would also be restrictive for us if we had to stick to these amendments and amendments strictly to the entity's constitution through amendments adopted in Republika Srpska and imposed in the Federation. So it was clear our framework based on which we had to do this. Of course, there are also pure mathematics here that have been described as choosing delegates in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Peoples. It was on the Council of Ministers and other variants, but the essence is that an equal number of the three constituent nations must be chosen. So both Srbin and Bošnjak and Hrvat as foreseen here by 17 of each constituent people and 7 of the others. The reference to why it is the others, so it is simply so regulated by constitutional amendments and no law on national minorities has been passed still in Parliament in the procedure, although in the Council of Ministers it has got the green light. These are the meanings of things that will be solved in some future period, in another political atmosphere of greater tolerance, etc. It is clear here that the election of presidents and vice presidents of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the election of presidents and two vice presidents in Republika Srpska are in a different way. But it was also limited to us because it was regulated by entity constitutions, or amendments. So they're not the same constitutional solutions, and we haven't been able to do anything different with these changes, but we've just applied the constitutional solutions of both entities. Furthermore, I must say that entities also need to comply with their electoral laws, and they will probably, on the basis of this current framework law, carry out their alignment, supplement their electoral laws regarding these amendments and additions, or according to amendments to the constitutions that have been implemented in both entities. He would not agree with Mr. Ilić if this were as he put it, as the Council of Ministers put it. We have had a narrow opportunity of action to overturn this from the constitutional amendments of one proposal and another. And besides, it was possible that what 29 said was that you delegates offered better solutions that were possible and that we could come up with a better quality solution which we would welcome. We have put forth effort and effort and achieved a consensus in the Council of Ministers to come up with such a proposal, not considering this ideal. And it certainly is our desire that we have a complete electoral law as soon as possible, that, before the political party's election itself, they have clear and precise rules according to which the election will take place and that the sooner it comes, with the fact that here we are already in some way entering the pre-election campaign, that we have clear solutions. And another response to the election of the president, vice presidents of the Federation. It is said who is proposing, so the clubs in the House of Nations are proposing candidates, and the assembly majority of those who make up the list are coming before the session itself, the majority must work to propose a list or list to be voted in the House of Representatives. There is, of course, when it comes to the complete consolidated text of the Electoral Law when it connects to one place. It's hard to speak alone now only with these changes and additions, without the other integrated text of the law, when it's all seen, it's likely that there will be some misunderstandings that will be agreed upon. And of course interpreting election law powers are also required. This was done in co-operation with representatives of the OHR and the Election Commission, so that the good part of this is still harmonised and there has been one solution that, in my opinion, can be acceptable with the observation that it is not ideal, but it is neither sloppy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-09-0.u2692	I end up with Minister Mihajlović. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who is it to adopt the proposed amendments and additions to the permanent election law they received from the Council of Ministers? - 8 Who's against it? Who's being held back? - 2 So 8 for, 2 against, 2 abstentions. Does he need an entity majority? It also has an entity majority. So I find that we have adopted amendments and additions to the permanent election law, and this has made the conditions for the October 5th elections to be held uninterrupted, as well as preparations for the elections. I thank you. You received calls for the next regular session of the 18th of this month, so let's study the materials and see you at the next session. Thank you very much.
