ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6816	... guests, I am opening the 25th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Before I continue to call the departments to check, as far as I can tell, we don't have a SDS club right now. Before the start of this agenda of today's session and talks, I am taking the opportunity to thank the current chairman, the distinguished representative of Mr Željko Mirjanić for the presidency that successfully led this home and I hope that we will also successfully continue in the coming time with your help and, since this is the first session of the House of Representatives, except for the plenary assembly that I am leading, here I say, once again thank the honourable representative Mr Mirjanić for leading the House of Representatives. In addition to the meeting, representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, the OSCE, the EU, the Observation Mission, representatives of the BiH Embassy, who expressed interest in monitoring the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, were invited: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, the OSCE, the EU, the Observation Mission. I welcome them all together and thank you for being here. I find that the session has a sufficient number of representatives present so that we can work. There are 40 MPs present. The absence was justified by the esteemed representative Mr. Amor Mašović for his absence from the country, so the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. Gentlemen, you also received a call for a session of the draft agenda. Yesterday we held a session of the College in an extended composition and agreed to a draft agenda that you received. I hope the president and club presidents have informed their clubs of the reasons for the change of the proposed agenda. You, I think now, have got one consolidated text of the agenda, so there's no confusion. As you have seen certain points have been removed for objective reasons, and we have classified two new points and one stream as part of granting consent to ratify agreements and contracts. I also want to introduce you on the download of the report on the harmonisation of the single text of the Law on State Service in BiH institutions. In the Joint Commission, there was a problem with compliance. The extended college yesterday at the session called on the Joint Commission to make another effort to reach agreement on the single text of the law in order not to come into the situation if we did not have the law. So here we call once again, and we ask the Commission to consider this question. 2 The new point is also a request by the Council of Ministers to be followed by an urgent procedure under Article 104. The Rules of Procedure consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Central Bank Act. Today, it's just a decision-making decision to request emergency procedure 104. The draft agenda included a report by the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum on a visit to BiH's number of municipalities. You got that report on the bench this morning. In an extended college, we were informed yesterday that the Commission was unique about the text, and a consensus was reached on the inclusion of this item in the agenda at the Extended College. As part of granting consent, the new point is point (c) because of the intervention of the authorities, that it is an emergency, means because of the intervention of Vajc's minister, so that the funds can be operational. So you're doing point 19 below c. Regarding the advance, with a draft budget for the BiH institutions. I would like to inform you that we have received a new draft budget from the BiH Presidency on 21 this month, as well as a bill, or a budget law. You got that material, too, today because it couldn't get through the mail. Yesterday, the College set the shortest deadlines for considering and adopting the budget, since we have obligations to the International Monetary Fund, which you are sure to know about. In accordance with such a decision of the College, we have proposed that the Constitutional-First Commission is already sitting today to determine that it is discussing the constitutional basis for the Budget Proposal and the Budget Implementation Proposal. The committee responsible, this is the Commission for Finance and Budget. The report shall be delivered by 29.5 at the latest. As far as I'm aware, the Commission has already discussed this. The deadline for the submission of amendments after the meeting of the Commission has been reduced from 48 hours to 24 hours. The House session is planned for 31 May, so that they can, if all is well, adopt the BiH institutions' budget and the law. I ask the MPs to count on these obligations, because this is our deadline until we have to adopt the budget to meet the IMF's requirements. You know from that letter that these are very short deadlines somewhere between 5 and 7.6 means, these deadlines, I hope we can honor those deadlines. Those were opening remarks. Since a consensus on this proposal has been reached in the Expansive College, I do not believe that this section should be discussed. We now have another intervention, it is a point, it is the Commission's report on the attempt to reach agreement on amendments by representatives of Sead Avdić to the Red Cross/Crist Society Bill. There have been certain amendments. We also received before this session a conviction that the entity red crosses also have the need to meet once again in these two or three days and to agree and think that they have room to help us and the proposal is for the College to take this point off the agenda, meaning that today is unnecessary, that we do not unnecessarily declare that we have not reached consensus, because TV was that we do not have a consensus. The proposal is for the College to take it off the agenda, if there is a possibility, and here we have assurances that this point will be able to agree. So that's what we're taking off. This is a proposal from the College. We are now opening up the possibility that distinguished MPs will say whether they agree with this or say they have a request for changes and additions to today's agenda. The first came from a respected representative, Mr. Adem Borić. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6817	The Party of Democratic Action MPs' club is seeking to supplement the agenda with one item that reads. Forming an ad-hoc commission to conduct a parliamentary investigation into the sale of donated weapons to Israel. Explanation. We propose this item of the agenda for the reason that the whole world is known for Israel’s unseen crime against the Palestinian people. Even the European Union introduced the arms embargo to Israel. It is incomprehensible that the foreign ministry did not know about the visit of Minister Anić to the federacija of BiH Izrael and Deputy Minister Buljubašić Jugoslavija. Therefore, we propose that an ad-hoc committee be formed to determine all the facts under which the arms sold to Israel were donated. We don't really need anyone else to explain that the donated weapon went to another country, because here we have a lot of documents and signatures, both Mr. Anić and Masleša, where the weapon actually went. It is incomprehensible that the responsible persons of these ministries keep telling the truth. We know it's a weapon of French production, as well as that the same could not be sold or donated without the consent of the donor country... So that I don't owe and beat myself to the mistake of bypassing the truth about the whole case, so once again, I suggest we form a parliamentary commission and conduct an investigation into this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6818	Thank you. Just try to deliver it in writing when we come forward. Next came the distinguished representative Mr. drag Stanimirović, and let the distinguished representative, Mr. Marko Amidžić, be prepared. Anyone else want to suggest a agenda point?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6819	Gentlemen chairman, honourable Members and ministers and honored guests, I have a technical note on the latest draft agenda we have received, because it says it is a draft agenda for the 22nd session and the first point speaks of the adoption of the minutes for the 23rd and 24th session. So, the last session we had on April 18th was the 23rd session and then we had a fourth plenary session and I think it would be very important to start this shortfall before voting on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6820	We thank the representative, Mr Dragi Stanimivorić. It's obviously in one version and if the numbers don't differ in languages, then please share the correct version with those who don't. It's at my house for the 25th session of the agenda. So it's the 25th session. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Marko Amidžić, and let the honourable representative, Mr. Abdurahman Malkić, be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6821	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, in the draft agenda that we have received for today's session, I think the call for a session, as the fourth item of the agenda, has been presented to the Joint Commission on the achievement of a single text agreement on 4 consumer protection laws. This proposal has been abandoned in this corrected agenda. I would like to point out that this home appointed me to the Commission to reach this agreement, that we had two sessions of the joint committee, that means this home and the House of Nations, that the technical affairs of the commission were conducted by the House of Peoples Service and that I understood at the last session of the Joint Commission that we had finished this job. The rest, then, is that the report on the job does the service. My intervention has reason to believe that, twice already, the House of Representatives has proposed and downloaded this same item of the agenda. On the other hand, in the secretariat of Mr Ljubić, I was given one notice from Mr Špirić asking us to finish the work of the joint commission. I don't know what this is about anymore. I am merely informing the House that I have done my job knowingly, along with other members of the House, and that you expect nothing more from us as far as consumer law is concerned. I even think that he is in agreement and that these issues are being put and removed from the agenda to resolve between colleges of two homes or services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6822	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Marko Amidžić. We don't have reports from the joint commission, so we couldn't put it on the agenda. It's still in progress for us. As soon as we get the report either positive or negative, we'll put it on the agenda and I call on the commission, no matter what report it is to deliver the report. Mr Abdurahman Malkić's esteemed representative came forward, he gave up. Then the word has the honourable representative Mr Miloš Jovanović and let the distinguished representative Mr Mirko Banjac be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6823	Honorably, ladies and gentlemen's Presidency, I propose that today's session be placed on the agenda at the point of amending and supplementing BiH's Permanent Election Law. I've been thinking about whether or not I might leave it in the form of an MP's question, but I think the College should have put it on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6824	I thank the honourable representative, Mr Miloš Jovanović. Mr. Mirko Banjac's esteemed representative came forward.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6825	Dear gentlemen, esteemed MPs, distinguished guests, I thought I'd get a reply to the letter today, a request I sent to the members of the College. However, it is obvious that the gentlemen did not find it appropriate to answer my request and I am not comfortable. I thought we weren't politicizing something that doesn't need to be politicized, but when members of the college think it's supposed to be politicized, that's not the problem either. But in any case, it is my right as an MP to ask for the item of the agenda, and it is based on Article 44. Rules of Procedure which say both homes can jointly find permanent or occasional commissions from the ranks of MPs and delegates for monitoring, considering and research. Here, I call on this, research on specific questions. My specific question and research I have suggested that it be called a survey committee, given that it is a matter of research, and I can only address it through the home of this and this home will decide what to do next with the fate of my request. So, the Kolegijum wouldn't read the Rules of Procedure. It's their right to behave like that. I ask 5 to form, put the agenda point to be seen: the formation of a survey committee to determine the war activities of the BiH presidency on the issue of a solution on the basis of which civilians were taken to forced labour. So, I have the evidence, and I wrote it in my request, obviously, that the Kolegijum called. I ask that this point in this form, as delivered in my memo, be put to the vote of this house, respecting Article 44. Read it well and I can call the temporary commission as I think I should call her and you can formulate it. In any case, it is a specific matter of research. And that's why I called her a survey committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6826	I would like to thank Mr. Mirko Banjac's distinguished representative. Anyone else want one? The word has a distinguished representative, Miro Grabovac-Grabovac-Titan.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6827	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the MPs, one of the basic elements that the state can function is its safety. And, given that this house does not have a committee or a security commission, and also, while respecting this late, when it comes to security, especially the territory of Herzegovina, or Mostar, and finding a large number of mine-explosive assets, or grenades of 120mm, I believe that the security situation is at one level that is not good that Parliament has a duty to monitor the security situation, hence, I propose, before the Croatian Democratic Union, we propose and, or demand that a single commission be formed in front of Parliament, which will be in charge exclusively for the security part, among other things, of monitoring the development of the investigation of these mine-throwing grenades in Mostar, given, and who knows, what is the amount of grenades, which is the explosion, and what is the security of Mostar citizens and beyond? Therefore, and given that Mostar has on it, there is also hydrothermia on its waterway Neretva, which is a wider disaster for the Neretva Valley. I therefore believe that this commission and how justified it is and how it is necessary for it to be established, to monitor this investigation and the other part of the security section until the establishment of a commission that is likely to have to be established at least at the level of the BiH Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6828	I thank the honourable representative Mr. Miri Grabovac Titan. Rijeka has a distinguished representative, Mr Mehtić, and let the distinguished representative Ivo Lozančić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6829	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, bearing in mind everything that has happened in the last year with citizens of BiH of Arabic origin, starting with their eviction from Bocinje, the deported Algerian groups, the control of humanitarian organisations, and here's the latest arms sale to Israel, or Kamerun, I support Mr. Adem Borić's proposal and consider it important to include information on the sale of disputed arms to Israel. 6 We know that Palestine is the cancer of the Arab world's wounds and all that has been happening in BiH in the last year brings Bosnia and Herzegovina into the eyes of the great Arab world into one, I would say an unspeakable and unpopular situation. As BiH's most legislative body, we often received information about important things for this country through media. That's why I'd like to get us on this issue to get competent information from the Foreign Ministry, from the Minister of Foreign Affairs to the bottom of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6830	I would like to thank Mr. Halil Mehtić, the esteemed representative. Word has a distinguished representative, Mr Ivo Lozančić. Anyone else?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6831	Mr. Chairman, Honorable member of the Presidency, gentlemen of the Ministers, gentlemen of the Parliament, on the proposals for the expansion of the agenda and the explanation of Mr. Borić, Grabovac, now Mr. Mehtić and also about the inscriptions in the last 15 days in the press and the sale of arms and the storage of weapons and potency... to dangers and within the country itself. I suggest we go with the addition of the agenda point to the establishment of a parliamentary commission to investigate the production, storage and sale of weapons from the signing of the peace process to today. That would have full information about the production itself, about the sales channels possible, is it? It's a newspaper sign. We do not have official information, because indeed this commission would have to determine what it has been since the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement, which would oblige the parties to reduce the potential and reduction of arms and at what stage we have been in the past six years.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6832	I would like to thank Mr. Ivo Lozančić. The word has been given by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mikerević. By the way, these are suggestions. We will return to everything individually later, but here we now have to give the other options that they have the right to propose and intervene.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6833	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, other guests, I've come forward for three things. To go from easy to harder. First, we are also, today, in the meeting of the Council of Ministers of the 67th session, and I want to inform you of the demo we are withdrawing after the adoption of the agenda and we will be working on the agenda and a number of resolution ministers will remain here, given the materials that are being considered here today. Secondly, I wanted to ask you, since one of the discussions was that for some reason still unknown today is not on the agenda of the consumer protection law that, indeed, I ask this home to really give priority, top priority to the laws of the ROD MAP, in order to create conditions for half of July to be the mother of the 11th session and to enter a new phase of relations with the European Union. Among others, there is also a law on state service which, of course, is not yet ready because we have more attempts within the Commission and these are two very important laws and I assume that as responsible people we will have this and that we will respect it in the next period. 7 The third thing I want to say is that, I say a few words to this House as chairman of the Council of Ministers is also concerned that today's agenda is not a state budget. You know that on the 14th of next month, an IMF meeting is scheduled, that today the Senior Board, the Senior Management Board, is also preparing a session and agenda for this session and they have had a very regular procedure for several decades, a regular session procedure. I am afraid that today's delaying this issue, that we can question the running of this agenda at all at the end of June 14th of the IMF and I don't know the College, I suppose, also got the College of Representatives' home and the House of Nations's opinion and opinion, and I don't know, but I suppose this home would have to be determined in order to be, in general, in the future, at least compete to be treated on June 14th at the IMF session, because by not adopting the Stand Bay arrangement, we are questioning the overall further reform course that is already in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6834	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mikerević. I'd like to do it on behalf of you. I'm just going to take care of this issue so there's no misunderstanding about how things have gone and not be. As for the issues of succession and the matter of budget, we have received a letter from the Council of Ministers that this should be adopted in an emergency procedure. Succeeding until final, I think 19th of the budget or budget by 5 or 7.6. 2002. You know how we immediately scheduled a session of the House of Representatives, along with the House of Peoples, and informed you 24 hours earlier. We agreed to discuss it by article 105 without any interventions. Almost everyone came and passed the Sucession Act in the scheduled time, so Saturday. After that, we were, normally, ready for the budget. We've got a budget proposal Wednesday at five o'clock so there's no confusion. After that, as soon as possible, we organized a session of the College. Since it's a new one, you have all the Rules of Procedure. The budget is passed by a member of 106 who says clear procedure. But if there's no confusion, I'll read it. Provisions governing the basic legislative procedure will apply when the budget is adopted. You know what the legislative procedure is. There's a regular that lasts at least two months, there's an ambulance that lasts 45 days, and there's one that's been shortened there. But he says the possibility that the College can cut deadlines and the College, I think, has very shorted the deadlines and I don't know that he could do more and here's suggested that today the Constitutional and Legal Committee is sitting in some pause to say that the constitutional basis, the constitutional basis for the budget, that in the next three days an authorised commission for finance and the budget can give its position, but that we MPs can give amendments, because it is a budget that I don't know how many 400 and some million KMs there. It is logical that people should make amendments, if they consider it necessary. Then it's not the same budget. It's not just that one thing to say is the item everyone mentioned. This longer is 15 million KM. It's quite different in positions, and it's logical to have some discussion about him. So, the commission has until 29 and we're scheduled for session 31. I think those are quite enough deadlines so we can respect our obligations. I'd like someone, here, and the Council of Ministers to be the legislator of the agenda point, to just tell me the technical possibility that we can do it today. As far as I'm concerned, I'm in a very good mood. I think they're all MPs, but I don't see any possibility that it's possible during one session. So there's no confusion. We really went as short as possible with the deadlines. That's an explanation. If it pleases. The word has been given by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Mikrerević. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6835	In order to stay in the game at all, I would ask this home to clarify the possibility of the 29th being a deadline, if we could adopt a possible budget. Can we, with these financial committees, with the Constitutional and Legal Commission, simply communicate with another home, in some ways there is no reason not to meet us on June 14th on the agenda of the IMF Committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6836	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here, I have information that the Budget and Finance Commission has scheduled its session 27. I think it would be good if during today's work we took a break to have club presidents hold a meeting. As for the College, we're in agreement, but here are the club presidents, so let's leave that question, let's settle in a break so it doesn't stay this way behind the table, we don't have a debate. The president of the BiH presidency, Mr. Beriz Belkić, spoke.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6837	Dear MPs, I hope you understand my need, my responsibility and my right to address it. I consider it necessary to be legitimate and legal all that is provided for by the Rules of Procedure on the work of this assembly, and absolutely in this direction I will not even discuss. It's a matter of assembly. As far as I'm concerned, I'm even recommending in any case where there's evidence and arguments and your commitment to running these things. So I find that legitimate and legal. However, I only came out for one finding in the document I received. So, my political responsibility is required. Here I want to say publicly, I was part of a legitimate system, an internationally recognised state of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I spent the entire war working in that system and defending that system from aggression. Anything that was out of that system, ask yourself what it was. So, I am ready to dissipate, of course, not that I am ready but that I am obliged to discuss any kind of responsibility for violating the laws of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and international conventions that regulate the area in which I have worked. I'm from Sarajevo for the first time in '93. For years, as a moving target across the runway, where 400 people died, he spent 1,400 days in Sarajevo, with no water, no electricity, with... with people. I heard, it's a rumor, but I'll have to check that Mr. Banjac came by on the weekends and watched what was happening in Sarajevo from Trebević. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6838	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Word has a distinguished representative Mirko Banjac with a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6839	Dear Mr Belkić, I neither intend nor intend to accuse anyone of it, nor do I accuse you personally, and I think it is in your interest to shed light on anyone's responsibility and personally think that BiH's future cannot neither make nor participate in it those who bear the burden of the past. The only motive is this, of the other two members of the presidency, 9 of the other two members of the Bureau, I didn't find it, that I found it, and if I find it, remember that I'm going to say it here. I call upon all those who have documents and on MPs, and therefore on me, to deliver and, too, I will be very happy to go out for this pay phone and to go out once with development, with progress, not to deal with the past. What you said here in your current discussion bothers me as a human being, and I don't think you should, especially with no such function, use the word aggression and if you know it's an official term for war in BiH and you're the chairman of an unfortunate conflict. Mr. Belkić, if only you gentlemen think what you want, continue with such terminology. That termology and those who warmed it up made an accident for these people here. I will never go that way myself, and that's why I don't think I'd ever say that in your place, no matter what you feel right now. And as for what you have instructed me, dear Mr. Belkić, I will be the luckiest man in the world when my opponents think of me and my family as I think of them and their families and remember that this is my life motto. I'm proud of my past, and if God will, and the future, I'll try to keep it that way, of course, right now, absolutely watch what I'm doing. I had no intention of hurting you as either man or any other, but a member of the presidency, especially the chairman, must clarify what his past was like. Don't be mad. We have to do this with the other two of those moments when we get any arguments. We have to do this with every MP who sits here. We have to start developing once and we're tired of dealing with the past to mutilate the future. That's why I sincerely resent you as an MP to this house, for using the word aggression. I don't think it's supposed to be found in this cabinet of Bureau members and I said, and now I'm saying that the MP did it, I would leave the session now until he was turned off, because I said we couldn't play in this room anymore. Since that's what you said, let it stand as your attitude, but Mr. Belkić, consider whether it's necessary.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6840	I would like to thank Mr. Mirko Banjuc's esteemed representative. The replica was reported by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mikerević. The chairman's got a replica he's already reported before.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6841	I'm really sorry, and I didn't think I'd answer, but I have to tell you that I was a little surprised by the aggressor's word, not defined by Mr. Chairman. I feel really uncomfortable. Is it possible, I don't know who he means. If he thinks of me or members of my people, then the question is, where does the chairman of the aggressor come from? I think we all need to, I understand everything and Mr. Belkić, but we need to be careful of the hard words. We can't change the past, but we probably have different opinions about it, as well as about beauty. It is in the minds of every man, and in that sense I would call upon all of you not to use heavy words, for they offend. They do not contribute to the future, and in that sense, enough, I would pray that and, Mr. Belkić, regardless of what he may have said in the effect, but I really do not feel aggressor, but to the man who should be doing this society, and therefore, it seems to me that the end of light should be cast into the future. Thank you. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6842	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mikerević. Here's just a replica, Mr. Tošić's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6843	On behalf of the SDS Club to the presidency member, we are very surprised with these terms of war in BiH, and I would like you to explain to me since my Tošić is very much on Ilidžica, not to mention Bosiljčić and Jokić in Alley, etc., how could they be aggressors in that space? So I speak for them, on behalf of that broad family of mine, and will we finally be able to throw that word out of our vocabulary once. We absolutely feel our own. This is ours, we have repeated it several times by the state of BiH. We've been here since the beginning and beginning, and there's no one to explain that we who have been here for centuries could have been aggressors in our country. So I ask you once again, everyone who goes out for this pay phone, who builds Dayton BiH, respects at least the elementically and no longer insults each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6844	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Tošić. I would ask that you all make sure that the agenda is now established and that we determine which point we are going to discuss. Rijeka has the chairmanship of the BiH presidency, Mr. Beriz Belkić, and let the distinguished representative, Mr. Cuplov, be accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6845	Obviously, I was inconclusive and inaccurate, absolutely not thinking about the people who lived what Mr. Tošić said in Mali Aleja etc. I mean the Yugoslav People's Army and those paramilitary organizations that supported them. I absolutely don't think of people who lived and lived in BiH and remained loyal to their country, of course it's their country, so we're running this dispute.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6846	I would like to thank Mr. Belkić, the chairman of the presidency. At the request of the club president, we're giving a ten-minute break. ...the president of the club. [[PAUZA]] Does the president of the club need to, the word has an esteemed representative, Mr. Bilbija.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6847	The respected chairman of the House of Representatives, the respected chairman of the BiH Presidency, the distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, fellow Members and fellow Members, present guests, the position of MPs from the RS and this mixed club, which makes up MPs of the Party of Democratic Progress, the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats, the Socialist Party of the RS, the Serbian People's Union, the SDS Club, as well as the independent MP of Mr 11 Mirko Banjac in relation to the statement by Mr Beriz Belkić, the chairman of the BiH presidency, at the beginning of today's session, which led to an inappropriate assessment of the character of war in BiH, the opposite of defining character in the Dayton Peace Agreement, in which it states that war in BiH is a tragic conflict and not a sin, and therefore we ask that Mr Chairman and the other officials at all levels of war in BiH, are not used in terms of reason for this matter, in terms of life. We do not accept that any individual, regardless of the function he performs, gives an assessment of the character of war and asks that official Dayton Termology be used in political public life. We appreciate it... but we're asking Mr. Belkić's apology for not proper precision. Furthermore, we suggest that we discuss this subject and start working on those points of the agenda that made us come today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6848	I thank Mr. Bilbija's representative, Mr. Cuplov Mustafa, for his words. I note, we're still in the first stage of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6849	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I would like to highlight one principle on which our party insists on its draft, which is the law above all, and I so consider it a legitimate requirement to confirm the individual responsibility of anyone in this country. Of course, I would be happy to see that principle respected in the full work of all the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the past until today. Of course, the attempt here to bring the mention of sin into the context of the Serb people, which belongs to BiH, is absolutely wrong and in this context it seems to me that Mr Belkić, as a moral and honorable man, has made the dilemma public. I would also like to say that about the character of the war in BiH that has taken so many lives and destroyed the country's material goods and potentials and threw us in the historical development of a tenth not to say many years down, it is quite clear enough and clear in the UN resolutions that have been brought and treated the character of the war in BiH. I am so asking you to look at the resolutions that treated the war in BiH in this context. Also, it would be quite strange and difficult to explain to anyone that the entire political and military summit of neighbouring countries, either being processed or being sought at the Internationals, is in The Hague to be responsible for war crimes at BiH's premises. I must also point out that BiH's legitimate lawsuit, which has also been brought to the International Court in The Hague, is under way and, of course, we cannot prejudge the decision of the International Court of Justice. That decision, I hope, will clarify all the dilemmas about this often disputed attitude. You don't need to be hypersensitive to what's called. hard words. A large number of people have endured severe grenades and severe suffering here. I am very sorry as a man who now reacts as a man and not as a man from the Party for BiH. If you don't think, since Mr. Belkić is our coal member, I have to say, in my opinion, this is my personal position, the last person in this country you could have filed for this kind of request. It is my personal position, and I would ask Serbian MPs to ask Srbin in Sarajevo, you don't need to go any further. Ask Srbin in Sarajevo for Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6850	I would like to thank Mr. Cuplov's esteemed representative. Word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Boro Bjelobrk. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6851	I'm glad that others have their word first and say what they think. I am absolutely so that the problem of 200,000 dead heads once to say experience and answer the questions of who did it, and so I understood the promoter for this point of the agenda that he cared to reveal the truth once, but I would like it to be really on the principle level, and I must admit to you, Mr. Banjac, that I didn't get proof today. So, I am also prepared by the order of my respect for the Rules of Procedure and, at all, a healthy reasonable need to find out who shorts out 200,000 people for the head in this country to absolutely open up the problem of truth and all possible mechanisms for this to happen, and so I suggest we really form a parliamentary body whatever you want to call it, which will deal with this key issue in a way that determines who these war criminals are who killed those people to determine who were those people who were the instigators of crime and finally, here I suggest you directly and let all current officials in BiH question themselves and thus show principle to the end, including the example that you have set. Secondly, I can't shake the impression, given the circumstances, here's only around this session is a parallel story about the right to research when it comes to the Hague court. I can't recognize you coming from a mile that has the same principled relationship. I'd be glad to see that at the same time on one and the other as a principled right of research. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6852	I would like to thank Mr. boriti Bjelobrk, the esteemed representative. If the word wants now, the word has a foreign minister Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6853	Mr. President-in-Office, the esteemed Presidency, ladies and gentlemen MPs and MPs, I finally appear on the basis of my demand for some assessments and assessments of the country's external political status, namely its role in the world, its place in the world and related to proposals to supplement the agenda, i.e. the formation of appropriate ad-hoc committees or similar, which mentions the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as the institution to which it is addressed. First of all, I would like to say that, unlike the assessments given here, the foreign political role, the place of BiH of today's BiH in the world in the region, in the European frameworks, then in the context of our links with friendly countries on other continents, including us friendly Arab countries, as well as countries belonging to the Organisation of Islamic Conferences, and in the light of all the events mentioned here and in light of what has been done recently, can be characterised as extremely good. I do not want to use qualifications on the work of this ministry from which I come and the foreign political role and place of BiH, I assume that the Presidency, which has recently considered and discussed this point of the agenda and conditionally, and the Presidency has given a proper assessment of the foreign political role of BiH in order of the competent ministry and I think that these assessments in normal procedures will come to you, if they have not already come, or to a competent foreign policy committee. I am, as foreign minister, ready at every session of Parliament, if this Parliament considers that I should give an assessment and review of the situation in the area, so, if it is necessary at such meetings and if it should be at meetings which would be more internally in order to discuss more about what is really a topic, rather than in the context of the campaign which, apparently, has begun. 13 Here it is suggested that, I have written, if I have written it correctly, that I am not wrong to establish a point of the agenda which would form an ad-hoc which would have the task of examining the quote: "sales to Israel" is what the esteemed colleague Borić said. I am obliged to say that, if you consider this case to be illuminating, especially in the context of the parliamentary procedure, it would logically be that the item of the agenda, if you consider it to be called the sale of the weapons to BiH for one simple reason, which, three weeks ago, is known to the public that one medium has announced that an adequate amount of weapons has been sold to Israel and, after getting very high attention in the public, I am ahead of the trip to the United Arab Emirates and Qatar to our friendly countries, Qatar chairman of the Organisation of the Islamic Conference, has completed talks with the relevant defence ministers, his deputy and commander of the Federation Army, and they have told me what I do not doubt and they have given the relevant press conferences, that it is about the sale of arms to Kamerun. So, for me at this time, as well as when I represented the country outside, a valid assessment of the commander of the Federation of General Atif Dudaković's Army, Defence Minister Mije Anić, Deputy Defence Minister Ferid Buljubašić, and that assessment stands, I suppose, until the competent legal and legitimate institutions or the relevant commission determine the opposite. So I don't mind talking about it that way. However, I am obliged here to say that I expected this point to be today. In fact, on 15.5., the text was published in a newspaper, which comes out and covers a large part of the Arab world, so, during my stay in the Emirates, it says here that BiH has read about Israel and 130 tanks, 85 armored vehicles, 2,940 rockets, today the most modern and fastest in the world plus for now an unknown number, the number of fighter planes and helicopters Turkey itself has failed to reach this moment. The same source states etc. etc. In the same text, I quote two sentences later: "The Party of Democratic Action will require its members in the Bosnian parliament to open a debate in connection with this buy-in deal scandal. In fact, the head of the Party of Democratic Action, Mr. Sulejman Tihić, says of our habit, Ašara Asad, quotes: "The U.S.A. will seek information on who gave the order to sell these weapons to Israel, you know these tanks, these planes we never had, you know, helicopters that even Turkey can't get. How we sold them to a country, which is an apparent crisis hotspot. We will not allow the quote by Mr. Tihić to remember this arms sale that kills the Palestinian people. He added, while Europe is preventing and selling weapons to Israel, we are doing so and therefore directly suspecting the SDP led by Zlatko Lagumdžija, as well as the BiH Party headed by Haris Silajdžić." Closed quote. End of memo. So, gentlemen, it's no surprise for me that you're going to set up here to examine why we sold Israel the most modern fighter planes, which even Turkey doesn't have, which we, as far as I know, have never had. Normally, it says in the media that General Dudaković is then Minister Anić, then his deputy, that they did not let that weapon go to Israel. They claim it went to Cameroon, etc., etc. And this whole thing just gets less important. However, this time I am obliged to say, I quote the challenge of a common communiqué on alleged and disruptive relations with Arab countries. Sheik Hamad bin Jasin bin Džaban Alkani, otherwise, Foreign Minister Katara and the chairman of the Islamic Conference, said he expressed great confidence and support and work and changes conducted by the current BH authorities in the past year and said he would personally advocate that friendly relations are now reflected in the development of economic co-operation, which unfortunately did not exist, 14 both at bilateral level and from the aspect of their current chairmanship of the Organisation of the Islamic Conference, including more frequent consultations between the two ministers. According to one of your leaders, I've never met this man. But it's perfectly natural, since I sold the planes that aren't there, then it's logical that I haven't even met the man who made this statement. Also, in another country to us friendly, which is being asked here with the right question, because I, Mr. Mehtić, fully understand you. Your question is quite logical, quite legitimate in an atmosphere that was created in public and your concern is quite logical, because there is, unfortunately, a large number of citizens of this country. He rightly has this concern, when such misinformation is being placed in our friendly countries, which the media say comes from a party that is today asking for a parliamentary commission to form on it. Otherwise, in the face of my other colleague, Šeik Hand... who I have also not met, in connection with a campaign run in certain media that is trying to disrupt the friendly relationship between these two countries, Šeik Hand... expressed his firm stance and clear stance on the BiH Foreign Minister Zlatko Lagumdžija's position that Emirates does not want to be the subject of political decomposition and to participate in an internal inter-party dispute with representatives in BiH. The United Arab Emirates country has made its various material, immaterial contributions to BiH, etc. And she's ready to keep doing it. You'll get a full report on this. If you think he's needed. However, this, I once again use the opportunity to indeed appeal as foreign minister to esteemed fellow MPs. We know that we are entering the last five months of the last campaign, which shows that it will be very brutal, very unprincipled and it may, perhaps, and normal, but I would really ask, I would even suggest to you, if it can be allowed for Parliament to consider, perhaps, defining some sort of resolution, a declaration in which we would call on everyone to, indeed, in these next 4-5 months to try to protect our country's international reputation and not allow our individual party interests to be used for something that may as a final result have brought down our country's reputation, a violation of relations with us friendly countries that are friendly to us regardless of what comes from our ranks. Otherwise, I have to say that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as well as the competent institutions, or the Council of Ministers on this case, has never been introduced except for the media. I'm by the nature of this job as the foreign minister got involved only seven days ago to see what was really going on, because you have to admit it was worrying about me when I went to a country where they told me I'd be asked why we sold planes we never had. I have been obliged and once again here to confirm that always, always in a situation where we will ask a question, whether I, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, should believe what the Commander of the Federation General Atif Dudaković, Minister of the Federation Mijo Anić and his deputy Ferid Buljubašić or one medium, from one, truth of our friendly country, let me always trust the people who represent this country and I am obliged as Minister of Foreign Affairs to defend these positions, regardless of what I personally thought about whether a mistake was made or not, and so I would suggest once again and I think that this is a good opportunity, if you want a concrete case to refer it to on the basis of the evaluations of relevant institutions, and perhaps this case is worth considering the importance in which Mr Titan Grabovac, Mr Lozančić, that this issue can be discussed in a broader context and that it is particularly important in terms with the policies of the policies of the whole, so that I can be addressed to BiH, so that I will be able to discuss with BiH, in particular, in order to be able to be able to be able to discuss with all of the EU, in order to be able to be able to be able to be able to deal with the EU of the EU of the EU of the EU of the EUs of the EUs, But hear me, I'm really surprised that this has taken place. Because, unfortunately, since we have sought detailed information and since the people who have been attacked in the media have done something that has been completely inappropriate for both the foreign and domestic structures of this country, to help kill any and especially Palestinian people in the Middle East, which is known to be the views of the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Unfortunately, an investigation launched to determine the facts of this has led to data that have been taking care of, which speak of, esteemed fellow MPs, that has been in the period of '97. By the year 2000, weapons sold to some countries, let's say, crisis hotspots in the world. Also, I wouldn't tell you the name of the country right now, the name of the company, if you want, if you decide on it, I'll present to you what we get from the competent institutions. But go ahead and ask around. As at one crisis point they sold millions of detonators from this country, where people were also killed. Since it was across the countries that were under the embargo at that time, with which we were at war, some claim that we weren't, that they were sold it, and I think it would be good to form an appropriate committee that would examine these things and I repeat it once again better to do it in every organized country, than to rust in the way that it was done here. I can now tell you such data that would have so destructively acted on people who had exercised power until 2000, I am the Minister of Foreign Affairs of this country and I have no right to say such things about this speaker without pre-judged whether it violates the reputation of this country, the security aspects and some people and some of the neighbouring countries with whom we have now wanted to build in a different way. So these are too serious things to be used in the election campaign. Believe me, it's been an esteemed fellow MP since '97. Until 2000, something was done that would be the biggest conviction in the public today. I suggest we talk about it, speak properly, and then present to the public what was and not to use it for pre-election purposes. If I were to tell you the name of those countries and guns and priestes who killed innocent people, but they walked out of here, I'd get political points, but I wouldn't act like the foreign minister of this country. And that is why I appeal once again to act as responsible people. And in the end, this arms sale to Kamerun was held in the Federation budget. It's not a dispute, and no one's mixing it up. What I'm talking about didn't end up in the Federation budget. It ended up in accounts that are still being searched for. The investigation I believe about it will give and inform the competent ministry and the competent institutions in an appropriate way, but the problem is that we are introducing order in this country in the last year, where we can and now it is determined that the accounts remain for us and the revenues that the rich have done elsewhere. That's what I'd like a committee on the Parliament Assembly's authority to be formed and to get to know about it and not to bring down the reputation of our own country in this way, and that in the end, a party has a plus minus 2% vote of our votes, it remains in this country again as if we were all poorer and quieter together. I thank you. Mr Mehtić, I especially thank you, and I want to assure you once again that the foreign political role and place in the world is better than the way you and I met him when we entered this House. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6854	I thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Zlatko Lagumdžija. The word has a representative, Mr. Brka, and I would suggest that Mr. Miro Grabovac be prepared and that we end this agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6855	Dear Mr. Belkić, gentlemen of the Ministers, distinguished colleagues and guests, distinguished seventh power. I'd like to say any word here, you'd like to pass it on as it is, just like I say. I answered one thing and I'm gonna have to talk about two. I apologize to you, Mr. Mariofil Ljubić. First of all, I would like to say that I support the proposal by my President of the Club of MPs that this point goes under that formulation on the agenda. Why? Because I have arguments and we have facts based on these arguments and facts and based on arguments and facts that we do not have yet and we need a parliamentary commission to determine what it was like and then this House demands responsibility from those responsible for the failures if they were and I have no doubt that they were in this case. And also, Mr. Lagumdžija, I'm telling you right now, I agree with your suggestion that everything needs to be examined, but you don't need to bring in the flat-rates and argue. You have here, in the follow-up of the speech, made a series of flat-rate reviews and arguments that you have no arguments behind, and I want my foreign minister to, when he does, always speak with arguments and facts and I don't know how I can tell you. If you have any arguments, let the public know. The Party of Democratic Action will never object to knowing the truth about anything in this country. If someone's responsible, let them answer, you know. If he broke the Constitution and the law fits, but that's what we need to determine. We've made a proposal to determine the actual situation around this case. We claim, now I claim as a man that the mistake was anyone's, that it was to sell one tangerine rifle over Israel to anyone. Let it be sold to Kamerun. It's a mistake. We have to admit that that mistake was a mistake. Whose fault it was I don't know, but I know this, that when the news came in the media that Mr Anić was in Israel, that he was backing the foreign ministry that he didn't know about the visit. I know that. It's easy to prove that this fact exists. One country can't function like that. He can't. The foreign ministry must know what its ministers are doing to him or from the state or entity parliament of entity governments if they conclude some contracts and some water talks somewhere. That's normal. Why in some secret did Mr. Buljubašić go to Belgrade? Why? Maybe it has something to do with Anic's visit to Israel, I don't know. I'm not saying so, but that's why we've suggested that we establish that a commission is here to bring this thing to its purgatory. Also, for all the things that we believe should contribute to the truth in BiH, we will always raise our hand, and as far as this Party of Democratic Action is concerned, be sure never the first problem will be the first. So that's a very clear view. I said that on my behalf as an MP, but I also claim on behalf of the party and on behalf of the club that there are no problems and don't say that it is, it's not an election campaign. We care about the truth. Since I've been with you for a year and a half and before calling this Parliament, most people didn't know at all. In a year and a half, it seems to me that I have perfectly normal contacts with all members of Parliament. If any of the Members of Parliament thinks they don't have normal communication with me, I'd like to tell me. Why am I pointing this out? Communication between people and people's talks must warm up the situation throughout BiH. I believe that this situation can be warmed up and improved only by communication and if we are to deal with the truth. 17 Do not ask people to put the truth under the carpet. That's why I just wanted to remind the distinguished colleagues of everyone I appreciate here, because the people of BiH chose you in this parliament. Why don't I appreciate it? I appreciate all of them. They all got a certain mandate. But that's why I'd suggest to everyone that some kind of political request doesn't require the truth to be put under the rug. The people in Bosnia were what happened. We all know what it is that we have put up with, but those who have done it to us know it. They also know international organizations, they know and the UN knows the world of security. I came out here to read you some UN resolutions and take that dilemma off. That's not what Osman Brka said now. That's what the Security Council said. We can't just ignore it. Which one of me can ignore to say it's not true. I'll just read the UN resolutions here. The UN Security Council is on May 15th, '92. The year brought Resolution 752 which requires me to quote "without delay all forms of interference outside BiH, including the units of the Yugoslav National Army of the JNA as well as the elements of the Croatian military. Furthermore, since the Belgrade regime did not comply with the requirements of Resolution 752, the Security Council on 30 May '92. In Resolution 757, it reiterated its request and imposed sanctions against Serbia-Montenegro. In Resolution 787 of 16 December 1992. in paragraph V of the UN Security Council requires neighbouring countries to stop the inflation of non-regulatory military groups in BiH, apostrophe of this route and elements of the Croatian Army. In Resolution 47/121 titled "The situation in BiH since 8 December '92. The word "aggression" is explicitly mentioned, expressing regret that the Security Council sanctions have run out of effect. The UN General Assembly accuses JNA of, quote: "direct and indirect support for aggressive acts against BiH".
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6856	Please, you don't have to read everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6857	Please, I just want to say that it's the Security Council that they're the UN if we're going to completely forget it. If that's what we're asked to do, it's a lot of my people. Don't ask.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6858	It's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6859	I'll finish one sentence. Please, everyone here please and all the citizens of BiH in the truth and facts can be made very quickly by normal BiH. We can't do it on lies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6860	I would like to thank Mr. Brk's esteemed representative. I owe you one intervention. In view of the very sensitive questions that we have begun to deal with this in a way that is not so appropriate after all. I didn't mean to interrupt for that reason, but you can see that these are the questions that we're talking about as well as ad-hoc and I would support having a commission to determine all this. These are sensitive issues for BiH's internal and external position. I would ask you to return within the framework to return to the agenda. About the agenda when it's being discussed, it's a maximum of three minutes. So take care of it in the future. Rijeka 18 has a distinguished representative Mr. Miro Grabovac Titan, let Mirko Baković prepare himself and move towards the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6861	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, I think that the obligation of this Parliament and what it is to take care of the security of the inhabitants of this country. Therefore, there is no one's right to play with the security aspect and given this all said so far, the fact that the Croatian Democratic Union Club in truth has the right to seek the establishment of a commission, or temporary commission that would have an aspect of the research of all these segments. Therefore, I request, in accordance with Article 26(2) and (2), that that is the direction it is going. Given Minister Lagumdžija's statement, I think that in truth not only should we think about it, but we must do it immediately in truth, and I suggest that this commission is called the Security and Defence Committee. What am I talking about? And if the weapons were indeed sold by the Federation Army, it would seem to be with... since segments of the structure of the Federation Army and its strategy I know well, I believe that the security aspect of the defense was violated if that happened. So this Parliament is obliged and how to investigate and do so urgently. Of course, there is a arms trade from one aspect and another aspect is the storage of illegal and unauthorized ammunition storage or perhaps more weapons that can and can be a element of the country's security breach. Therefore, this parliament is obliged and obliged for the sake of the BiH residents to allow this commission to investigate and tell the real truth about what it is and whether the BiH residents are safe or still will be repressive to residents under different coats and under different interests of individuals or groups. I think it must be cut off once that all those living in BiH must feel free, secure and that, without any fear, they can walk in BiH, commit and, of course, open the entrance of foreign investment killings. If these aspects of security are violated, not that we can't join the Partnership for Peace, we won't even be seen here. So it's in the interest of BiH, it's in the interest of all its residents to make BiH a stable, normal state to be entered into by foreign investors to open new jobs not because of security aspects and political disagreements that people move out of the area of BiH, because our country will if we don't have residents. Therefore, one of the basic elements is the security within the state that people, in general, will survive here and on the other hand the security that foreign investors want to enter. I believe that BiH residents are residents of European peoples and that they must join the family of European peoples and BiH and its place is here. In this regard, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Union Club, on the basis of Article 26(2), I request that a temporary commission be set up to be called the Security and Defence Committee. Which will have a temporary character to explore all these shops.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6862	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Miri Grabovac Titan. Rijeka has a respected representative, Mr Mirko Baković. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6863	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable President, the Honorable President of BiH, I am invited to say a few words. I'm not gonna say anything smart. I'm not gonna say anything special, but what I'm about to say is honest. I really have an intention. One proverb says politics doesn't have to be moral, but history has to be moral. Therefore, all the things that have been happening in BiH over the past six, 7 and 10 years, in my opinion, should be slightly left to historical assessments and historical analyses. It's not that someone is running away from the problem, it's not that someone is running away from politics or from history or from events or fate, but I think it's one order that these Bosnian Herzegovic or Balkan passions are calming down and that once we say this is our homeland, not because it's the apriors that are defined, but because fate has meant it for us, and then we should once turn around to make it ugly, etc. It seems to me that when our MPs come out here to talk, they always ask themselves, and they always say, given what it is, is this the agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6864	I think we could use these messages today.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6865	Well, then they say what my party will say, but we very little wonder what my people or what these people in BiH will say about our appearance and our performances. That is it, and should be asked that BiH is a poor country that the people are poor and that we would once overcome doing something smart not for three hours at some empty political discussion to lead. In my opinion, we here must be determined according to both Israel and the Arab Sith, or Palestine. In my opinion, both the Palestinac and the Hebrej, they are our friends, but that policy was the only other policy if it wasn't right to condemn her as such. In my opinion, control where arms are sold should be conducted, control to whom they are sold, where they are stored. What's wrong with Mostar, and what's worrying is that the relevant relevant factors in the Federation authorities and the like, especially the executive bodies don't lead to enough accounts, are not simply interested in what it will be. It's easy to take it all like it's some kind of game, like it's some kind of hunting game... etc. It's big stuff, and I think that should be considered. This commission should be formed and all of this examined and closely monitored, because without it we cannot move forward. A lot of things need to be cleared up, but no passion, no emotion, and no unilateral commitment. I believe, although many of the predecessors have pointed out that I too say that in any place and at any time we should take care of the dignity and BiH and the people who work, representing BiH, whether they, as such or perhaps their politically named liked or not, but if the current representatives of this country, then need them to go. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6866	I thank Mr. Mirko Baković. I'm closing, okay. The word has a respected representative, Mr Mirko Mijatović. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6867	Gentlemen of the chairman, distinguished fellow MPs, dear guests, I am truly convinced that democratic institutions of government and fair procedures best create peaceful relations and prularistic society as BiH strives, I am at least convinced to become. However, I am also convinced that if we continue to work this way, we are far from such efforts. The very fact that we're moving away from the agenda points and we're not capable, even if we're not able to hold onto the formulas that are proposed, I have to object to the individuals here who have come forward, here to mention Minister Lagumdžija, because I am truly convinced and I will not give up on him and my minister. And the way individuals step forward and define BiH, I don't think it will contribute to its prosperity and prosperity for people and citizens in BiH. Please, fine, this is where you operate on the terms of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the form of some kind of floscule. It says BiH sold weapons. That's not true. I don't know how BiH could sell that weapon. There could have been some kind of organs or individuals or in any case BiH. I'd like to look at that paper, because there's not a single country in the world that can do it. Yeah, let's assume a government or some kind of company or some kind of individual. Furthermore, I've been murdered, too, I must say, there is an abuse of this assembly pay phone and it's precisely due to internal inter-party matters. But I'd like to warn gentlemen that selling weapons from Bosnia and Herzegovina is not all about that. I know it's an ideal topic for internal inter-party disputes, but who and what parties. Are these parties all over Bosnia and Herzegovina and how does this affect the peoples and all citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina? In my opinion, it's not just that, it's one worrying fact. The fact that weapons were sold in one crisis area, right from Bosnia and Herzegovina, in which everyone here, I would say, is a very false oath. And it's a worrying fact that it really happened. Far more significant than an inter-party dispute that any party will use in the election campaign. No matter who did it, gentlemen, no matter what size. Is it about planes, which I don't believe. Because I think I know so much. This causes the anger of most people and all citizens and most of the citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's a fact. This should also be addressed, as this disrupts Bosnia and Herzegovina's reputation and security situation. Her reputation in the international community. In my opinion, we all here together maybe there and I have seemed to be overly pretentious. We're dealing with too much global policy here. I wish, gentlemen, we were as strong and strong as the state that we could influence it. mežutim, I don't know if our present pay, not the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is allowing us to be satisfied enough, not to lead the global international community, the global policy of the international community. They have exactly certain institutions of the international community that do this and every attempt to rise above it and formulate who are terrorists, who are attacked, etc. In world terms, I don't think we really need to deal with this right now, that we're going to make a much bigger contribution if we deal with practical problems, those that are on the agenda and many others who are not on the agenda because of these situations. Well, the very claim that we form here from day to day from session to session, we just want to form some new commissions and some new organs, and we still haven't managed to implement the Dayton Agreement in the part where it was adopted and what was prescribed. And we want all of this stuff and we still want to skip the elemental stuff, and so on. Now, let me tell you something, I'm not convinced if I have to vote for this committee, but I know in advance that this commission will do nothing. I'll Glasać, and we'll see what he does. We don't have the ability or jurisdiction to make it clear, but lucky someone discovered it and you know who discovered it in Mostar and this? The relevant representatives of the international community who came to these premises at the invitation of the warring parties to give us a lesson and they are right.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6868	Please, the agenda really, I mean, you didn't say anything new.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6869	Here's a part of the agenda against me forming a commission, and that's... (epilog). Here's what I'm going to say is why. Because I have full confidence in representatives of international communities, representatives of the international community who discovered weapons in Mostar. And we're the way we are, you know, we couldn't have done it. I would also support SFOR and all the international institutions involved in continuing to deal with us, to help us, to prevent us from having this kind of fight, not to allow us to raise tensions before the elections, to draw attention to all the side things, without taking care of prosperity, it may be too difficult to express that prosperity itself, because if we continue this prosperity we will never get to.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6870	I would like to thank Mr. Mirko Mijatović, the esteemed representative. The word has a respected representative Mr. Mirko Banjac, a business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6871	Dear Mr. Chairman, I implore you, most sincerely, to conduct a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and, and I ask you fellow Members to understand that each of us has the right to propose and do not engage in anyone's proposals. We're going to say our attitude by lifting the chart "for" or "against." Don't let us develop any impatience here. There's no need for that. I ask you to learn here that we simply respect each other, that he proposes what he thinks he should suggest and we vote. And you gentlemen, the chairman, why you're releasing these discussions that have nothing to do with the agenda. Stop it, please interrupt and give us a chance to vote for what people have suggested. I would only ask Mr. Borić on this occasion, please, it is an inaccurate formulation. I'd like to vote for your commission, but I'm asking you to rephrase that. Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot sell weapons, but the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina can be investigated. Because that's right, that's the point of things. Bosnia and Herzegovina only has a permanent foyer committee and let's figure it out once.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6872	I would like to thank Mr. Mirko Banjac, the esteemed representative. I certainly accept all of this as he said, but I couldn't interrupt, but from the next time I'm going to ask to be here on the wall clock that will type and 3 minutes and prepare, so, because it's necessary to break a man up here when he starts talking, because everyone knows that we should stick to the agenda. Well, now that we have, then, the clock doesn't lie, he's soulless and everything. 22 The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Borić. So that's final before the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6873	The right to tell you what has already been called here in several of these calls is persistently trying to prevent conversation, opinion and one dialogue. That's what concerns me, the right to speak, the truth of my own, and that's what really concerns me in this House. I'm sorry Mr. Secretary came out. I have indeed clearly indicated the topic of forming an ad-hoc commission to conduct a parliamentary investigation into the sale of donated weapons. I put Israel here's the retreat of Cameroon. I don't know who it went to. I don't know. I didn't get into grades. I wanted the relevant committee to simply come before this Parliament to meet us. We thought in the Party of Democratic Action, not because of the elections, but the newspapers write about it every day, I'm notifying myself, and we're supposed to be some kind of entity of this state. Well, I guess we have the right to at least get to know each other. So it was an intensities that not today, but to prepare one piece of information from a parliamentary committee that would give the truth and offer it to the public. So that was the wish of this club of MPs of the SDA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6874	I would like to thank Mr. Adem Borić, the esteemed representative. I'd close it. We've had six suggestions here if I'm not mistaken. Of that, the distinguished representative Mr. Miro Grabovac Titan had two. Here I didn't initially remember I am informing the House of Representatives that a new club, the Club of the Parliamentary Party of the Croatian Democratic Union, was formed here. The club president is Miro Grabovac Titan, Vice President Zdenko Vukić. MIRO
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6875	(speaks from place)
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6876	People call themselves that. So the first proposal was Mr. Adem Borić's esteemed representative. The first variant was the formation of an ad hoc commission to conduct a parliamentary investigation into the sale of weapons to Israel. Wait a minute. Wait a minute, wait a minute. To sum up the proposal. The second proposal was in the same form as the respected representative of Mr Mire Grabovac Titan – the formation of a commission in front of Parliament to monitor the invention of a grenade in Mostar. The third was the proposal of a respected representative, Mr Mehtić, who joined the honourable representative, Borić. 23 Then was the fourth proposal by Mr Lozančić – the establishment of a parliamentary commission to investigate the production of storage and sale of weapons from the signing of the Dayton Agreement to this day. I'm asking the promoters. It's about the same, similar subject. Whether there is a possibility to formulate a common point and where there is a possibility to form a common investigative committee that will identify all the facts relating to these cases, means that it must provide a method of work, a way of hearing, data collection and everything else. That's what I'm putting into your head. Next, the esteemed representative Mr. Miro Grabovac Titan suggested, which I think is something else, it's forming a temporary defence and security commission. So it's special, right? No, not just a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6877	It's got to be temporary, it can't be a commission, it's got to be a temporary investigative committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6878	Do the promoters think it's possible? Well, you can do it for yourself. The word has a distinguished representative Mr. Miro Grabovac Titan.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6879	I am in front of the Club calling for Article 26(2), which speaks of the temporary formation of a commission, means that the House can form and I have suggested that this commission is called the Security and Defence Commission. Including, it means including in its description it knows what the commission should do. To include in its description means the production of weapons, the storage of weapons, the sale of weapons, and when it comes to a security aspect that is related to both the military part and the police section. For many reasons, with the security part of this being seen that the security part within Bosnia and Herzegovina is not at the level at which it should be. Therefore, the commission can be temporary and can monitor security within BiH. Of course, with the priorities of what we've been talking about. It means that we are not citing an individual commission for this, a commission for it, but to be a Commission for the Security and Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has a temporary character, and it cannot only be implemented on the territory of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, since the structure of the Federation of BiH and the Republika Srpska Army has been followed by a donation of foreign weapons which is a question of whether the structure came on this territory. Therefore, in this security aspect, it cannot be stopped on only one entity, including the defence strategy of one and the other entities, one and the other armies. So I know what I'm talking about and what's important for the security area and I'm warning you when it comes to the presidency as commander-in-chief of the armed forces that have certainly a great commitment to this part. Did they come here when it comes to cannons, rocket systems and whether radars have arrived 36 or 37 or any which are and how important to the security of Bosnia and Herzegovina and logically it must appear, that grenades that have been stored by reduction under the agreement have been destroyed. Is there any other weaponry in the matter of cannons and how much it is, whether the residents of Bosnia and Herzegovina are even sure of this. 24 I demand that this commission be formed temporarily which will have all the powers in the area of security and defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6880	No, it's me now, now it's clearer to me that we haven't talked about two of the same things. One question is the investigative commission, an investigative commission to investigate these Mostar cases, sell guns, I don't know who, and the other is what you're proposing. You are actually proposing a temporary commission of this House of Representatives whose authority is the area of defence and security. So now we can set it up.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6881	Cooperation with the Foreign Affairs Commission
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6882	No, no, you'll do it in the description when, if the agenda is accepted, it needs to be given a composition, a description, but these are different things. I therefore called on the motions whether they could step forward jointly to seek the formation of an investigative commission to investigate all these cases. But if the promoters can't find themselves there, they don't agree, we'll definitely go individually. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Vilić, and then let the representative, Mr. Đedović, be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6883	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am against the commission being formed in one case only. Here's why. Please, how many weapons and warehouses in this Bosnia and Herzegovina have been found so far. How many more of us don't know? For the security of citizens across Bosnia and Herzegovina, a group should be formed, and I agree, which will investigate all these cases. So don't amnesty anyone. We know about the case here's Mostar and Han Pjesak and all over Bosnia and Herzegovina so I don't count it now. So I'm joining the formation of a commission, but the way I just brought it out. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6884	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Đedović. And I don't think we're having this debate here, we're going to go individually on point to point. He will come and Lozancic, who unites everything, so whatever goes through, goes away. So we don't get to say who's in favor here anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6885	Madam Chairman, honourable member of the Presidency, Mr Ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, Journalists. I would only like through one intervention to imagine these members of the commission at the Ministry of Defence of the Federation or Republika Srpska. Don't embarrass people. I'm telling you he won't get the facts. The Federal Parliament, as far as I know yesterday, formed a commission and please give it to me. We can ask that what the Federal Parliament Committee find to look at, too. This is not how we solve the problem. Let's be 25 real. He has the right to refuse, for you gentlemen will say by the Constitution, you are not appropriate to control me. We can get angry, we can disagree with that, that's a fact. We just tell them thank you very much. Please come out. Our reality is now like this, and I suggest we take a step forward, ask this Federation Parliament committee to look at what it is and think about it. We further chose the path to a partnership for peace and form everything we need to enable the time we are talking about here. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6886	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Đedović. As far as I know, we've even, well, I haven't had that opportunity, and we've agreed enough to approach the formation of a defence and security committee. Well, that's what you have in mind. So the first is the proposal for an amendment and the addition of the agenda is the proposal of a respected representative of Mr. Adem Borić in front of the club. The point should be, if I am not mistaken – the establishment of a commission of ad hoc which will conduct a parliamentary investigation into the sale of weapons, a cartoon was added to Israel Kamerun. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you, abstentions? Of the 39 who voted 27, one against, 11 abstentions. She needs an entity. Who's from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina for? Thank you. Who's from Republika Srpska for? Thank you. Please again from the Federation who's in favour? No, they couldn't count from the service. Usually those who aren't against or abstentions, they're for, it's calculated. Thank you. These other ones were able to count. We don't have to go from Republika Srpska. How much? From Federation 16 for, Republika Srpska 9 for. So it's on the agenda. Let's go to the second amendment and supplemental. It is about Mr Miloš Jovanović's proposal for a respected representative. Amendment and addition of the electoral law declared by the High Representative. A few inputs. We have not been given a proposal to amend and supplement the law. They apply. I think we'd like to plead we need someone to propose the material. Is the honourable representative ready to propose? Is there material or no material? Is it proposed? Well, then you can initiate for the next session. Then we have nothing to vote on when we have no material. 26 The word has a respected representative Miloš Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6887	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say, but at the same time, I'd like to ask a question. We, as Parliament's Assembly, were to dissipate and adopt this, namely amendments and additions to the Electoral Law, or someone else needed it. If someone else did it, then let's ask them to do everything we do today and we can go home.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6888	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Jovanović. We have nothing to vote on here. They shall have mandated representatives of the Council of Ministers as any representative. Please, as soon as he gets here, we'll be in the process. Let's go to third, it is the proposal of a respected representative of Mr Mirko Banjac to form a commission, to form a survey committee to determine the wartime activities of the BiH presidency to issue solutions on the basis of which civilians were taken. Not now, you can do business intervention later. The word has a distinguished representative, Ms. Emina Zaćiragić, but business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6889	I welcome all present. I'll be very brief. I couldn't help but say that according to article 44. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives shall not fall within our jurisdiction. This is about investigating any guilt for action in the war. It may only be the jurisdiction of a regular court or an institution that examines it, and I think if the House of Representatives went in that direction to make a terrible number of such requests and to take too many obligations upon themselves and it is not possible by law or by our rules of procedure. What's a survey committee? Your poll is something you're asking if anyone, any info you get from a poll. There's no according to the Rules of Procedure of the Commission. There is a commission that can question certain issues under article 44. What's a certain question? Is that what this is, now it's a matter of possible criminal responsibility that doesn't belong. These issues do not fall within the jurisdiction of this home. I think this is all done in a trendy way, that we've been dealing with issues today that haven't been on the agenda, and we haven't even adopted the agenda yet. I, the Party for BiH Club, will vote against, and I see that the College has not agreed that this item enters the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6890	I thank the distinguished representative, Mrs. Emina Zaćiragić. The word has an honourable representative, Mr Mirko Banjac, who should certainly be determined whether it is polling, since we say that the polls do not exist. Let's be exact.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6891	Well, there's nothing with you gentlemen. You won't understand my right to call the commission in the way I think it should and there are two members in the Rules of Procedure. This is Article 26, paragraph 27, and Article 44. Investigations can also be carried out in order to investigate something must be investigated. I thought this temporary commission was supposed to be called a polling committee. You call her whatever you want. You understand that I have no right to do that. The other thing is, ma'am, you're a trendy not me. What's the right for you to say that I'm tenorous if I say something is being examined? I didn't hurt a man's personality in one word or have that intention. I have an intention, maybe someone else comes in line here. We're afraid of that order, gentlemen. Don't let us learn order that we have to realize that a man has the right to suggest that he has the right to make arguments and, of course, that's why you will judge or not. Please, ma'am, I won't change my name. Yours is whether or not you will define yourself for or against, and do not deny me the right to appoint a MP, my parliamentary right to ask for it, and you cannot deny me the right to do so. Whether it's a well-intentioned, ill-intentioned time will show you gentlemen who it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6892	I would like to thank Mr. Mirko Banjac, the esteemed representative. We're moving on to a plea. Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? Of the 41 present, 12 – against 24 – 4 were abstentions, so the proposal did not go through. We move to the fourth addition possible this is suggested by the distinguished representative Mr. Miro Grabovac Titan. If I wrote it down, it's a formation. Okay, let's move on. Dear representative Mr. Mehtić agreed with Boris's proposal. Next, the distinguished representative Mr. Lozančić proposed the establishment of a parliamentary commission to investigate the production, storage and sale of weapons from the signing of the Dayton Agreement to this day. Dear Representative Lozančić. Maybe it doesn't make any sense to the end. The formation of a parliamentary commission to investigate the production, storage and sale of weapons from the signing of the Dayton Agreement to this day. Who's in? It's united. Who's against it? The abstentions? Of 41 for it was 29 – against 11 please entity. From RS who's in favour? Thank you. From the Federation who's in favour? Republika Srpska 3 for – Federation for 27. So he didn't get most of the famous alignment. There's nothing for your information from that. The next proposal is the esteemed representative of Mire Grabovac Titan, who has united his two proposals. It's about forming, it's a temporary security and defence commission. Which can't be a temporary commission. How he can't name everyone. Well, aren't we... 28
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6893	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, I had two options. Since I have an intervention, since my proposal was the first of Lozančić's, I should have voted for it sooner. But it doesn't matter. So I'm not giving up now on the second part I suggested. One variant remains that first to vote, to form, here's the formula. So, the defense and security committee, where research will be united.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6894	We can't do that. That's what you'll do when the agenda point comes, not in the name of the point.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6895	So, which will investigate when it comes to Mostar and the sale of mines in Mostar and that will investigate when it comes to the sale of weapons and I have suggested that this part is called the Defence and Security Commission, and that it has a broader aspect of the security area, and that I have secondly proposed a commission for the investigative part of the Mostar case around these mines. So I'm staying on this one, especially one proposal from Mostar. So this part of defense and security, if it passes, then I'm giving up Mostar, if it doesn't pass, then I'm staying with this one.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6896	You can see I was in first. This proposal was the fourth one in a row, and this one was the seventh one. I wasn't wrong about that. So, let's go for the formation. There's no need, here's until we finish this vote. So, the proposal of a respected representative of Mire Grabovac Titan to form a temporary defence and security commission that will treat the issue of finding weapons in Mostar and selling weapons. Wait, you can't intervene. Business intervention and word has a respected representative Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6897	I ask you to stick to the Rules of Procedure on the work of Parliament's House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6898	Well, tell me what I was wrong about.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6899	Of course, Article 26 allows for the establishment of a temporary commission or a committee for a parliamentary investigation of a particular case. So you don't give that commission a name. You're right, but there's no name for that commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6900	It's not right.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6901	It's okay. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6902	Wait a minute, you gave that commission a name for selling guns to Israel or Cameroon.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6903	I can pull when it comes to the name. Whatever you want, it can be formulated, but it has to have this part-time work.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6904	Take it easy. What are you nervous about? If those guns were nervous, they'd blow up. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6905	I'm sorry. I just want to help, so we don't get to be twice. He has a proposal from my colleague Ramiz Vilić. He also mentioned other places where weapons were found and where they were found that we could vote together. I don't want to be against anything, but if it's Mostar, it's Han Pjesk and West Mostar where things are found. Why go around that? So, I'm not doing it in one place, I'm doing it in the entire BiH area, to make it a position.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6906	Well, you all talk nice, but none of the proposings agreed on anything in common. So you just talk so beautifully, and when we try to define everyone, you look at other attitudes. The word has been given by the esteemed deputy chairman, Mr Mirjanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6907	I beg you, obviously there are delusions here regarding the text of the Rules of Procedure. Articles 26 and 44 are mentioned. Article 44 The Rules of Procedure refer to the joint committees of both homes. Therefore, today this member is not in play, but Article 26 is Article 2 I ask you to look at the Rules of Procedure. What's this about? It's about temporary or investigative commissions that don't have their own names, and that's the first thing they don't have their jurisdiction. They form for a specific case. If you want to form an investigative commission, then you have to determine the case for which it is formed. You can't bring any general suspicions here, but you have to say for that case we form that commission. So, a temporary commission is formed, which is given a specific task rather than a specific jurisdiction. We have a permanent commission that has specific jurisdiction. If you want to propose the establishment of a permanent commission that will have a certain jurisdiction, then it is a completely different story in the Rules of Procedure. I'm finishing up, you can't ask for an investigative committee for all general cases. You must state what case you are looking for the commission, because this commission, another one, according to constitutional jurisdiction, as Mr Đedović said, is completely in the first place, not to conduct investigations, but to the competent institutions to ask what they have found and present here to Parliament. Thank you very much. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6908	I thank the esteemed deputy president, Mr Mirjanić. I'd like to join Titan's advance to say that the investigation into mine-finding of those people mentioned in the media as owners. The formation of a competent committee for research, investigation into the sale of weapons in BiH and in the event of weapons finding in Mostar. Is that a name? No, this is your proposal. Write it down. Don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6909	I suggest it's called a commission to investigate the sale and illegal mutilation of weapons in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6910	Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? The abstentions? 40 votes – for 28 – against 9 – 2 abstentions. From RS who's in favour? Thank you. From the Federation who's in favour? From the Federation for 25 consent. Does the honourable representative have the following proposal? It reads this way to form an investigative committee to investigate the case of weapons finding in Mostar, mines. Who's in? Who's against it? One against. The abstentions? Of 40 – for 29 – against 4 – abstention 6. So this proposal was adopted to amend and supplement the agenda. Is there anyone else's suggestion? Please define one more time. Or you read it and I'll ask you to plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6911	I'll subline everything in two sentences. I suggested that a commission be formed to investigate 200,000 or how many have already been killed in the last ten years and that all those who could have been responsible for this include war criminals, inspirers and all people in office in BiH. That's the first sentence. Second sentence. We can be in a position to revote as we now proclaim what we like from research and where some of them are mine and where some of them are theirs. I am fully aware of the consequences and behaviours of this Parliament and I demand that the right of business be put to the vote. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6912	Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's so cocky? 39 present. 25 for – 10 votes against – 8 abstentions. We're going to an entity. Which one of the Federation of BiH for? Thank you. Who's from RS for? 23 for the Federation. Republika Srpska, so he didn't get the necessary... Mr. Tošić's joint session club saw as just a valid statement I did not see the agenda point. Please, if you have a proposal, if this is as a proposal for a item on the agenda read and the honourable representative, Mr. Vilić, if he stays.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6913	We are our MP as SDS, PDP, SNSD, DSP, SRS, SPRS and independent MP Mr Mirko Banjac in relation to Mr Beriz Belkić's statement and about an inappropriate assessment of the character of the war, because it is contrary to defining the character of war in the Dayton Agreement, we have asked that the chairman and other officials at all levels not use inappropriate terms, because they are not on the path of reconciliation, co-existence, tolerance etc. and that is why we said that if Mr Belkić is not ready to apologize to the Serbian people in BiH that at this moment, because of this term, the permanent term of aggression and other officials then he will be the position of the House of Representatives to condemn the use of the term of aggression by the chairmanship of Mr Belkić and all other officials, because this is not how we can build the Dayton BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6914	What do you suggest I'm interested in?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6915	We suggest a conclusion. Please, we have at all times accepted the complete terminology of Dayton, we say BiH two entities, Bosniaks and all that is in termology. We must be clear about this, because we cannot constantly interrupt the sessions and look for and this is how we will go indefinitely if everyone comes for this speaker provokes representatives of the Serbian people in Parliament and in the Council of Ministers, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6916	I would like to thank Mr. Tošić, the honourable representative. Rijeka has the chairmanship of Mr. Belkić's presidency, and then let the distinguished member of Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6917	Dear MPs, I don't think I mentioned in any word the people, the Serb people in BiH and any people. Please don't impute me. Publicly, you are now speaking for this pay phone of BiH citizens in this assembly. Kiss in BiH with the trail of your statement, you're asking me to apologize to the Serb people of BiH. Why do you do this to me when I haven't mentioned the Serbian people in 32 words? Mr. Tošić, I have explained and I say again, I believe that the aggression against this country has been carried out by JNA and paramilitary formations in BiH. I didn't say anything else. I didn't say a word to the people.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6918	I thank the chairman of the presidency, Mr. Belkić. The Republic has a distinguished representative, Mr. Tošić. Please, the honourable representative of Neimarlija must wait.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6919	Gentlemen, I don't know if we're competent here. If we did, let's just finally organise a session on the subject. About who was the aggressor and whether it was the Serbian people, whether the Serbian people were helping, please, since I said if Tošić could have been the aggressors on his Ilidža and Bosiljčiča and Jokić not to list the other families, I went from there. Secondly, should we not mention now that we are not opening Tuzla's problem, the columns that killed those guys? What was the conflict? Voluntary streets? Please, if we want to talk about the termology of the character of the war, schedule a session, but don't show any more at this point here from high-ranking officials what doesn't stand in the Dayton Agreement that we're going towards tolerance and reconciliation and the rest, and in that we can never deal with it. So we're looking the same way we're being replicated.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6920	Who are you and who are we here? Please suggest a point of the agenda. You're looking for a point on the agenda to draw a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6921	We're asking here for the House of Representatives to come to a unique conclusion that these terminologys that aren't made by the Dayton Agreement. It can't be that anyone who changes the terminology that's been set up with Dejton and the Dayton Constitution will be warned, interrupted the session for five minutes and continued. That's what we're looking for to make a statement about the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6922	Who's in? The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija. Which every time you blow up a session. When we get to the end.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6923	Fellow representatives, Mr. Chairman, distinguished guests, therefore, what we have heard from fellow SDS Club presidents, of course, is in no way a proposal to supplement the agenda, and I would, on my part, help with what could, in order to reduce this problem, go as a proposal to supplement the agenda, propose that our home be dealt with in principle with in the language we speak in Parliament, can be specifically about the qualification or use of qualifications of what is happening in BiH and that this is specified, of course, and not to propose as a point of the agenda the conclusion of the SDS and, therefore, please let us respect ourselves. The conclusion 33 was offered. Here is the conclusion, not a proposal to consider a particular question, which is, for example, the use of language and the use of certain qualifications, so I ask the MPs to determine what we are actually going to do. It's just that I'm working in advance on the agenda of the conclusion of the SDS MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6924	I'd like to thank Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija, the esteemed representative. Word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Mirko Banjac. Anyone else want one?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6925	First of all, gentlemen, why the right of someone to call a legal way of parliamentary work a mining or demining as you do. You don't have a Mr. Chairman who's right about what's ugly here. The only thing ugly is that Mr. Chairman gave the character of the war assessment the opposite of the Dayton Peace Agreement provisions. I'm suggesting, the conclusion is... I'm not being human. I know what the trend of working in this congregation is. I beg of you, I'm not at all angry that you didn't vote. It's your right to vote yes or no. And you gentlemen are judging a legitimate procedure here. What do you really want? You want to keep quiet here. You want us to sit here in submission, obeying someone's orders and everything else calling it enmity or demining, which is not what gentlemen can do. That way we won't work, and that way we won't get anywhere. No Niko here should be angry. I'm not angry at all, and I'm ready to work with Mr. Belkić tomorrow in any area, and I have no reason to be the opposite, but I'm asking you gentlemen. Dikle, you'll call different opinions enmity or I don't know what else, mining. That's why I'm proposing Mr. Belkić, to me as the MP I'm here, I apologize for speaking to you. I am here, perhaps you weren't present in this room, if anyone once again calls the aggression of war in BiH, which is clearly defined in the Dayton Peace Agreement, while this sitting in this room will not be me. Because I won't insult him, and he has no right to insult me or anyone else. So, not except for you. If you are not prepared to apologize for your use of the term aggression, I will either leave this room or here I suggest that your position be condemned. I'm not prepared to condemn your position. If you think that you should say, that perhaps, to say, hasty assessment of war beyond what it says in the Dayton Peace Agreement, it will be enough for me to continue to work. What makes sense, Mr. Neimarlija. It makes sense for you to wave your hands. Oh, you wave to whoever you want, that's your problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6926	I would like to thank Mr. Mirko Banjac, the esteemed representative. Now let me just say, I didn't mean any suggestion here. What kind of people are you? I've been thinking about all of us, it's obvious that we're mined our work. So don't think he's up to it. According to this, Mr Damir Mašić, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6927	Dear colleagues, dear journalists, guests, members of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Banjac has always been full of tolerance and co-existence and everything, but these grades are now totally one-sided. Why don't we as a House of Representatives make a resolution asking all the relevant factors in BiH to arrest war criminals who are still sneaking around the Bosnian Herzegovic forests today. Why aren't you ready to do that, Mr. Banjac? I don't think of any people, I mean all war criminals who are suspected by the International Court of War Crimes of The Hague. Why don't we turn to that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6928	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Damir Mašić. The river has a trained representative, Mr. Mašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6929	Mr. Banjac, I know I'm a guy, but it's not, I'm an MP and I've got votes in this assembly just like you. I'm an MP for you, and being young is my advantage and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6930	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Mašić. Mr. Mirko Banjac's guest of honor has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6931	I apologize for not knowing the name. I have never, as a man, stood behind anyone's work or who should stand behind my work. You stood as a young, capable, promising man today and behind the possible work of Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6932	I would like to thank Mr. Mirko Banjac, the esteemed representative. On behalf of the College, I'm giving a break for ten minutes. I'm calling a session of an extended college in the O.R. to this three. We are yet to enter into two questions about two additions for today's session of the agenda. [[PAUZA]] Here, I expect Mr. Tošić's esteemed representative, who had a proposal at the Extended College, but until he shows up, we have another question that has been extended by the distinguished representative, Mr. Ramiz Vilić. I suggest that the honourable representative come out and read what he proposes not to be confused and that we vote on it right now, and we'll get to the bottom of this next issue and see if we can do it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6933	I do not repeat what I was just saying behind this pay phone, I cannot accept that this parliament is only legal to form a commission on the part of the Federation and not on the entire territory of BiH. Therefore, I propose the establishment of a temporary investigation committee to investigate the origins of the weapons found in the warehouses of East Mostar and Han Pijesak. That's it. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6934	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Vilić. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? There isn't. The abstentions? Of the 34 who are here, there were 26 votes without votes against with seven abstentions, because we have few more abstentions required entity. Who's from RS territory for? Thank you. Who's from Federation territory for? From the Federation's territory either for 23 with RS 3 territory means it didn't pass. I call on Mr. Tošić's esteemed representative, he still had a proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6935	Mr. Chairman, Mr. President of the Presidency, gentlemen of the Parliament, we agreed on an extended college to go with the resolution and it reads like this. It is already being printed for not losing pace and dynamics, meaning resolution and respect and use of terminology according to the Dayton Peace Agreement. All public office holders in BiH are obliged to use terminology in official communications in accordance with the provisions of the Dayton Peace Agreement. The SDS Club, PDP Club, SNSD, DSP, SNS, SPRS and independent MP Mr Mirko Banjac are proposing.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6936	I am. Who's in? The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6937	We accept putting a resolution on the agenda, and the text is about that.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6938	This is the agenda. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? There isn't. The abstentions? Thank you. Of the 38 that are there, 27, without votes against – abstention 6. Even if it's not slow, we'll check the entity as well. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Thank you. Who's from RS for? From the Federation of BiH 14 for? From RS 13 for. So we put it on the agenda of the resolution that you're going to get, and then they'll be able to talk about it later. So I'm closing this agenda. 36 We can only do it one more time if there's a need to read the agenda, for a stenogram maybe. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 23rd and 34th sessions of the House; 2nd Agents' questions and answers; 3. The Commission’s report to the College on the effort to achieve the consent of the Predjleg Law on Statistics; 4. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the BiH concession law proposal; 5. Report by the Commission of the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of the Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Aviation by an urgent procedure; 6. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on a resolution on the regulation of the legal status of BiH institutions of science and culture; 7. Report from the Commission from the College on an effort to reach agreement on a proposal for a joint commission to comply with the law on the BiH Ombudsman; 8. Request for an examination of the Proposal for a Law on the Insurance of Deposits of BiH under the urgent procedure of Article 104. Rules of Procedure; 9. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Central Bank of BiH Act on an urgent procedure of Article 104. Rules of Procedure; 10. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities – First Reading – Proposer of the Council of Minsitarians; 11. Proposal for a management law – first reading; 12. Report on the implementation of the 2001 BiH Presidency budget; 13. Annual report by the Central Bank of BiH for 2001 and financial report; 14. Report on the operations of the BiH Financial Institution Audit Office for 2001; 15. Report by the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum on visits to a number of municipalities in BiH; 16. Resolution on Health Policy for All Civilization of BiH – Proposer Sead Buturović; 17. The election of members and alternate members of the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Council of Europe, that is, more precisely, the setting of criteria; 18. Giving consent to ratification (a) the Treaty between BiH and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on Customs Cooperation and Mutual Assistance, (b) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial assistance for the establishment of companies by a professional workforce returning to BiH; (c) the Development Credit Agreement Credit Project for the private sector between BiH – RS and the International Association for Development; 19. Forming a commission to conduct a parlamentary test2ga regarding the sale of arms by Izrael-Kamerun-Camerun or Cameroon-Kamerun-Izrael; 20. Forming an investigative committee to investigate the case of finding grenades – weapons in Mostar; 21. Bringing resolution 37 This is the agenda we have at today's session. I don't think there's anything controversial about it. I suggest we make a statement about the complete agenda that's been read here now. I hope we haven't forgotten anything. Who's in? Thank you. Against? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. I find that out of 40 present 40 voted yes. That's how we adopted this agenda. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes from the 23rd and 24th sessions of the House of Representatives at the 23rd and 24th sessions, I hope you have received. I'm opening a debate. Any objections to the record? Is anyone answering for a discussion? If he doesn't answer, I'll close the debate. I suggest we plead to accept these minutes from these two sessions. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? – 1 Of the 40 present 39 for and 1 abstentions we have adopted these minutes, but there is always the possibility of intervention and determination of corrections. Thank you. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. It's about parliamentary questions and answers. Ad.2. Representatives' questions and answers In the meantime from 24th to 25th session of the House, the questions were answered by distinguished representatives of Mr Boro Bjelobrk, Mirko Mijatović, Senad Šarganović, Adem Borić, Osman Brka, Franjo Majdandžić, Mirko Baković, Salih Kulenović, Miro Grabovac-Titan. Is there any MPs today who want to ask counsel questions? I'd like you to really stick to the Rules of Procedure and give what you read in writing. He has a respected representative, Mr. Kovačević. Have Mr. Amidžić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6939	Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable members of the chairmanship of the Presidency, the chairman of Parliament, the honourable fellow MPs, when it was slippery, I asked the question why the roads don't go, etc. Well, I got an answer in the spring when the snow melted. Now I've asked a parliamentary question that I'm asking again today. A month ago. What about opening a border crossing in Šamac to work, as Mr. Beriz Belkić often uses the term "full capacity". This bridge was funded by the international community, made us a bridge so modern, the tapes of modern, it can pass the railways and the road and freight traffic and it is not allowed to operate at full capacity. There's no freight, no rail and nothing like that. The problems, then, we inside BiH were unable to resolve certain issues among ourselves. People have every honor in the international community who invests so much money in us. They made such a bridge one that connects us to the Republic of Croatia. We're talking about how customs are supposed to be harvesting, hollowing our borders, border service formed aman, I've been doing something I-I've been doing in some newspapers in us people specializeing in the molds of roses. Maybe if some roses on that bridge were some members who were molding roses of 38 that would be roses of prosperity and the progress of this BiH which, we said, I listened to you here for 3-4 hours of discussion, really who was tortured, destroyed, tortured, it was what it was, I'm not going to get into it, but I'm saying that, however, that bridge and I put an emergency mark on it. I have not received the answer to that question and I pray from this place to the international community that we must pray again and we must admit that we are not capable of some of the most basic issues to resolve. And I again ask the question under the term "emergency, emergency, emergency".
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6940	I thank the honourable representative, Mr Kovačević. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Amidžić, and let Mr Damir Mašić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6941	Gentlemen chairman, fellow MPs, before today's debate on the agenda, I had prepared a parliamentary question that was addressed to the College of the House of Representatives. Dikle arrived with a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, since the procedure was opened until 15.4. o.g. Given the objective time in which this issue should be opened or completed, I decided to remind you of that, but given my expectations that it would not be so easy, then I decided to propose to the House of Representatives a decision to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, by introducing an article 37a. related to the implementation of the Security and Defence Commission as a permanent body in the House of Representatives. I did it in the light of one final act in writing and collected the support of some MPs. I will now present this to you as a proposal with a request that, instead of answering the question I wanted to ask, I would like you to include this in the next House working session, with the request of other MPs to mean that the name dilemmas, the work content, decide to make their proposals, means that this job that the BiH Presidency also accepted, which we accepted at the NATO and OSCE seminar on Bjelašnica, would be completed at least at the 6th month. I repeat, I would like to point out this is to ask the MPs to enter this procedure and find a possible solution that fits the way in which they decide in this home. So one possible solution that means it's possible to get a single parliamentary majority. I am giving you a written proposal and you, on my request, try to put it on the agenda, normally and other MPs, to make their proposals and to resolve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6942	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Marko Amidžić. Mr. Damir Mašić's esteemed representative and Mr. Senad Šarganović's esteemed representative should be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6943	Dear colleagues, guests, media representatives, I have two parliamentary questions. First of all, when will the dual treatment of BiH citizens on SRJ territory stop? Explanation. BiH citizens coming from the Federation of BiH's territory are obliged to apply within 24 hours to the nearest police station, while this is not the case for citizens coming from RS territory. However, this would not be a big problem if you were forced into the Ministry of the Interior or the police station where you sign up to be demeaning, provoking, forcing you to wait 39 hours out of a few hours until an inspector who is supposed to put his signature or the paragraph on the document mentioned. I'm not saying this out of my head. I've experienced this personality a few times in my skin. Another thing, citizens coming from RS territory on Yugoslav highways, pay tolls of one compatible mark or half euros, while citizens from the Federation of BiH pay the amount but at 10 KM or other words ten times more expensive. All of these are examples of obvious and certain discrimination between the constituent peoples and BiH citizens on the territory of the SRJ. The justification for such behaviour by the SRJ, indeed, does not exist, especially if we take into account the decision on the constitutionality of the people and citizens across the BiH territory. That's the first parliamentary question. My second parliamentary question. Why passenger cars at the Sremska Raca border crossing between SRJ and BiH must wait a few hours to cross the border in a column behind trucks and motor vehicles. And this isn't the same story about phrases, this is the same thing I've experienced two or three times. In the column, not just me, but all citizens of passenger vehicles crossing that border crossing. I don't know. I'm not an expert in that case. There's a question. Should this border crossing even be registered for the transport of goods or only for the transport of passengers? Is he satisfying those 4ths? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6944	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Mašić. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Šarganović, and let the distinguished representative of Mrs. Bahrija Osmanović be prepared. Anyone else want to sign up.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6945	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen. First question. Since 15.6. measures by the Croatian government, which prohibits the transport of oil products in the direction of the U-S canton via... Is it a Izečić? Second. When will the border crossing Užlebić be put into circulation? Third. Will the temporary import of oil derivatives by road be possible through the border crossings of Užljebić and Maljevac, given the ban on imports via G-P Izečić from 15.6 to 15.9.? Fourth. When will G-P Izecic be built, given the approved funding for the construction of G-P Izecic?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6946	Thank you. Rijeka has a respected representative, Osmanović. Let the honourable representative of Mr Salih Kulenović be prepared. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6947	Dear gentlemen, at the 21st session of March 12th, I asked two questions. Number one. How many people in BiH institutions have been working on a contract for more than six months? Two. Whether to prepare for BiH's roof labour law, and what the BiH state will do to prevent working on black. On the second question, I got the answer. However, I have not yet received an answer to this first question, and if it has been more than two months since the question was asked. As you know in our Rules of Procedure, Rule 128 states that the answers must be given within 15 days. Dear gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, as far as I can tell, there seems to be no one here. For this question, you should not have waited for information from entity institutions. It is known to me that the problem that treats this first question of mine, which is to say the work on black is very pronounced, it seems, in BiH institutions, and otherwise, in this country. I'd like to have a correct answer. I'm not just asking for this for answers, but it would be high time for this problem to be resolved both at the state level and at all levels of entities, cantons and municipalities. About the originality of a positive answer, I don't want to talk about what that would mean for our schooling, for our health care, and ultimately for retirement. It's high time to solve this problem and stop working on the black. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6948	I thank the distinguished representative, Mrs. Osmanović. Rijeka has a distinguished representative, Mr. Kulenović, and let the honourable representative of Mr. Bilbija be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6949	Madam Chairman, Mr. President of the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, today we have seen the agenda and we all understand the political opportunities in BiH. It's one way to look at the ad-hoc political situation. I also believe that, when the parliamentary questions in this House and their answers are in this context, too. Namely, every parliamentary question I've asked, I'm on time and I've been given an orderly answer. From these parliamentary questions, or answers, I have noticed that the resolutional ministries, i.e. the Council of Ministers, are simply unable to resolve these burning issues. I am interested in whether the Council of Ministers has analysed all the issues raised so far, and has, on the basis of these analysed issues, drawn certain conclusions, in terms of proposing certain legislation and legislation, in order to indeed address this burning problem in BiH. I will today, and I may have another parliamentary question for another assembly, and then if these activities don't begin, what I was just saying, I don't think there's any need to ask questions like this. Today my question is, again, about the return and the return pain and implementation of the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement. The question is: Why returnees to RS have to pay the supply costs el. Energy to their reconstruction facilities houses and if they had been brought in before the war. Energy? In particular, this is about a returnee of Bošnjak to the village of Belajce near Mirkonjic City. For a year this returner has been seeking his rights, even a bill was laid out by the RS Power Distribution to make it an el. Energy brings, two or three pillars, I don't know how long it takes 41 so it's looking for 4,700 marks, of course, that returner turned to all the relevant factors, everyone's been silent so far, Niko answered anything. Here's how this process takes place on the spot on this example, and I could tell you as much as you want, unfortunately, of such examples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6950	I would like to thank Mr. Salih Kulenović, the esteemed representative. Rijeka has a distinguished representative, Mr. Željko Bilbija and let the distinguished representative, Mr. Branislav Lolić, be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6951	Dear gentlemen, today we discussed a report by the Council of Ministers, and that was certainly more than a month ago. I pointed out that out of the four parliamentary questions I asked during my term, I received an answer to only one thing. Here and now I don't see any of the ministers here or the deputy ministers, they're probably our mistakes in one way, we should have ended this earlier, but I'm using the parliamentary possibility that, based on Article 128 of Article 5 that says. If the subject fails to provide a reply within those deadlines, the applicant may ask the College to include the oral question required by the oral response in the agenda on the first next unit of the House. Of my parliamentary questions I've asked, I have no answer for three. I'm not gonna be rude, so now I'm looking for all three questions coming up, but here I'm asking one of my MPs' questions, and that was it. How many BiH institutions were employed in 2001, to indicate exactly in the services and how planned it was, or how busy it was in 2002, from the House of Representatives and beyond, because I think that information can be provided by the Council of Ministers that there is no reason to hide such information there and that it is only transparency of the BiH institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6952	I'd like to thank Mr. Bilbija's esteemed representative. Rijeka has a distinguished representative, Mr Branislav Lolić, and let the honourable representative, Mr Adem Borić, be received.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6953	I'd like to ask the next question. Does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs intend to approve the opening of the Honorary Consulate of Ukraine in Prnjavor and the appointment of the Honorary Consulate and, concerning the request of the ambassador of Ukraine to BiH, based in Zagreb, sent to the Bureau and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs more than two years ago?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6954	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Lolić. The river has a respected representative, Mr. Adem Borić. Let the honourable representative of Mr. Boro Bjelobrk be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6955	My question is addressed to the BiH presidency, which reads. On what basis are troops of the Federation of BiH mass discharges carried out these days? 42 Explanation. The BiH presidency has made a decision on discharge, provided that the BiH Federation Parliament adopts a programme of layoffs. It is not known to me that the Federation Parliament has brought a discharge, so I ask in writing if possible from the presidency a response.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6956	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Borić. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Boro Bjelobrk, and let the prized representative Miloš Jovanović be.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6957	First two things I'm not gonna ask you, which is, well, it's a good thing some guys are patting me on the shoulder, but I don't know why Mirko Banjac pats me on the chest? That's not what I'm gonna ask you. And I'm not going to ask you, too, why we didn't have a debate about constitutional changes, and we're so much like saying here the decibals raised here. I'm not going to ask you who's in charge of humor at the College of the House of Representatives, because I have to admit that it's extremely unsuccessful, so I'm not interested in my name or name because of the tropics. Yeah, well, it's literally going to be a year since I've been insisting on two questions. My esteemed colleagues from the College are literally dealing with everyone other than their obligation to the Rules of Procedure. My final information for the fourth time was written and it says for my question in Moscow that Ivanić phoned the foreign minister to travel to Moscow and so my colleagues sent it to me finely and I am looking for his intervention. Gentlemen, I'm not going to use any attributes, but I'm asking you nicely to at least stay human. For a year I have been asking for information about events in Banja Luka and Trebinj or you are not citizens of this country, and at the very least I do not feel you at all as my colleagues in Parliament, and that is exclusively on that business level. Three more questions. I ask the Council of Ministers for information in which countries can nostrate diplomas acquired at Bosnian Herzegovina universities? Second question. What exactly does the Council of Ministers intend to do by the end of 2002, in order to reduce risk assessments for development banks in European countries? Third question. I ask the Foreign Trade Ministry for detailed data on the transport of weapons and ammunition between BiH and other countries on individual contracts from 1977 to today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6958	I would like to thank Mr. boriti Bjelobrk, the esteemed representative. Rijeka has a distinguished representative, Mr Miloš Jovanović, and let the distinguished representative, Mr. Osman Brka, be prepared. You will receive an intervention, following the honourable representative Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6959	Honorably, ladies and gentlemen, since this problem could not be solved regularly, I am forced to ask a parliamentary question. When will the Kladanj municipality compensate for the damage done to Đerić Vlada from the village of Nonajevici, because she illegally built a mosque on his property? 43
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6960	I thank the honourable representative, Mr Miloš Jovanović. Business intervention has a respected representative Mr. Željko Bilbija and then let him wait for Mr. Brka's distinguished representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6961	Dear gentlemen, we have already talked a lot today about the terminology we use here in this House of Representatives, I would like to ask Mr. Bjelobrk, when Ivanic said, however, Mr. Ivanic is the president of the relevant government and therefore Mr. Bjelobrk, regardless of the jobs and everything, but I think it is time to call it that.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6962	I'd like to thank Mr. Bilbija's esteemed representative. Word has an esteemed representative, Mr. Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6963	The Honorable Presidency, I will be very brief and feels that I will fast a very important question. I believe that one of the burning issues in BiH is the issue of returning, and since I know walking around BiH, one of the very important issues is the problem of resolving the return of people from neighbouring countries and that this is a serious problem of returning to the premises of BiH. I ask the Council of Ministers and the leadership of our Parliament, because as far as our Council of Ministers' travels are concerned, our Parliament travels very much. At which stage is the solving of all problems with neighbouring countries with the Republic of Croatia and SRJ... thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6964	I would like to thank Mr. Brk's esteemed representative. I'm closing this agenda. So this is the end of the second point. Before we move to the third item of the agenda, I owe one notice. In the break was the extended college of this representative's house. We have reached an agreement on the maintenance of the following, so the 26th session, which will certainly be dedicated to the issues of the adoption and discussion of the BiH institutions' budget and the law of the institutions, is our proposal, we have agreed that the issue be discussed 29.5. at 11 o'clock. We propose to the Commission that instead of the 27th Commission, it is for finance and the budget to meet 28th for amendments and then it is 48 hours. So, we as a college have accepted that he cancels out on 24. It means that these amendments can be renewed at the session itself. So let the Commission take 28. We're in session on 29th, so we have enough time to, in cooperation with the House of Peoples, bring that question to an end. I think you're all aware of the seriousness of the situation and the need to consider the budget at the session as soon as possible next week, meaning not to disturb the procedure we have to implement, but also to respect your understanding that we are ready to go on some shorter deadlines. I think this is just fine and correct. So, you'll get calls here, but that's 29.5 at 11 o'clock. I ask the Commission to sit in place of 27. - Twenty-eight, what time they figure it out. That's it. 44 We move to the third item of the agenda. Ad.3. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Statistics Law on 21st session of 21.3.2002, the proposal for a law was discussed in the second reading. The law has won most of it, but it has not received an entity majority. It was necessary to carry out the consent procedure. You have received today's report on an effort to reach agreement on the BiH Statistics Bill proposal. But, so I don't read it all, but mostly, I'll read the last row. College members disagreed on the bill's proposal. So that's why we have to carry out the procedure. The procedure is, it's a member I think 65th paragraph 4 which requires us to plead as a home, with not being two-thirds of every entity two-thirds or more against it. So we don't have any discussion anymore. No, I don't. It's just a vote. Who's in? We plead the law. We delivered a report saying no consent was reached. He got most of the Home, didn't have an entity majority. It was an attempt. The attempt didn't work. Now we have to make a statement about the law. Who's in? Now we're voting as a complete home. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. The abstentions? There isn't. Now let's go entityically. Who's from the Federation of BiH against? Who's from the RS against? So the total vote, so the entire home was 24 and 10 against. According to the Federation entities, no one was against RS just enough 10 against. So he didn't pass. We ended this procedure with this. Now the Council of Ministers or other promoters know what to do. We're moving on to the next fourth item of the agenda. Ad.4. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for concessions is held at the 23rd session of April 17th. considered in the first reading which did not receive an entity majority. The Commission has carried out the coordination procedure. The shortest members of the College agreed on a proposal for a concession law in the first reading. If consent has been reached and has been reached, the chairman shall inform the House and the law shall be declared adopted in the first question. Then you move on to another reading. Procedures under Article 96 shall be carried out. Rules of Procedure. It is a debate and a vote on the proposed amendments. It's going on, we agreed it was going to the next session. So that's what we're done with. There have been certain amendments, which will defend themselves in the plenary phase. Here, sir, among other things, is Mr. Banjac's esteemed representative. 45 We move to the fifth item of the agenda. Ad.5. Report from the Commission to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of the Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Aviation Act under the urgent procedure of Article 104. At the 23rd session, the Council of Ministers' request did not receive an entity majority. Also, the College was considering and at the shortest it failed to reach consensus, so it was just a matter of procedure. So we're obliged to carry out the procedure. Who's in? By emergency procedure, Article 104, as requested. Who's against it? Abstained? Entirely. Who's from the RS against? From the Federation who's against? So, the law received most of the 36 emergency requests, meaning 36 – 26 for – 10 against. Federation entity no one against RS 10, so no procedure 104 has been accepted. Ad.6. The Commission's report on the effort to reach consensus on the resolution, on the regulation of the legal status of BiH's institutions of science and culture at the 23rd session on April 17th, the House discussed this resolution proposed by the distinguished representative, Mr Sead Avdić. The resolution didn't get an entity majority. The Commission carried out the conformity procedure in the shortest college failed to reach agreement on the resolution. I suggest we plead home. Which one? Thank you. Do you mind? Thank you. Are there any abstentions? There isn't. We're moving on to entity. From the Federation of BiH who's against? There's no one here. From the RS who's against? Of the 36 who voted 26 for – 10 against. Most of them are here. By entities. The Federation doesn't mind. From RS 10 v. So it didn't pass. We're going to the 7th item of the agenda. Ad.7. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement in the proposal for the conclusion of the Joint Commission, which agreed to the Law on BiH's Defence – I stress that the Law was adopted and declared, this is only a conclusion at the 21st session of the House, the House adopted a report by the Joint Commission on the adoption of the uniform text of the Law on Defence. I note, the law has been passed and published. The conclusion proposed by the Commission in the report did not receive an entity majority. 46 It is therefore necessary to carry out the voting procedure until the end. Who's to conclude? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Are there any abstentions? There isn't. According to the RS entities, who's against it? From the Federation who's against? There isn't. 36 who voted 26 for 10 against. He's got most of it. By entity. From RS 10 against the Federation without votes against did not get a sufficient majority. Thank you. We're moving to agenda nine. Ad.9. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Central Bank of BiH Act on an urgent procedure - Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Law in the House were adopted on 14 May. In accordance with Article 104(2), the request is included in the agenda on the first next, so the next session is today. Excuse me. I'm opening a debate on an emergency request for article 104.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6965	Just a minute. This is the central bank law now...
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6966	We'll be back.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6967	We'll go back to the deposit. Central Bank.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6968	Now it's the Central Bank so there's no misunderstanding. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? If no one's answering, then it's about including an emergency procedure to cut the deadlines in half. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? Vote 36 for 26 -- no votes against, abstention 10. Entity Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Thank you. Who's from RS for? Thank you. Federation 23 for – RS 3 for. It's a famous coincidence. We're going back to point 8. Ad.8. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Insurance of Depositary of BiH under an emergency procedure, as referred to in Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the House of Proposals was delivered to the House on 24 April 2002 with a request to consider it in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. So, the deadlines are down to 47 halves. Debate on the request of the Council of Ministers. Who's calling for an argument. If no one answers, I'll lock up. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I find that out of 36 who voted unanimously with 36 votes, the Council of Ministers has accepted the request that this request be considered, the law under the emergency procedure was Article 104. We're going to the 10th point of the agenda. Ad.10. Proposal for a law on the protection of the rights of national minorities – first reading. The draft law is addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers by the law to representatives on 28.12.2001. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion in 16.1.2002. As you know in the parliamentary procedure there is also a proposal for a law on the rights of national minorities submitted by a group of representatives: Miro Grabovac, Zdenko Vukić, Marko Amidžić, Mirko Baković and I write here Mariofil Ljubić. You are also aware that there has been a debate, consultation and with the representatives of the Venice Commission. There has been some agreement in the process, and amendments have been accepted in which I, as one of the motions, have also been proposed to the Council of Ministers law, which is the committee responsible, how much information I have accepted and these other laws are in the process. The Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, whites and asylum delivered a report to lawmakers, which was sent on 28 March 2002. I call, therefore, on the issue of necessity and principles on which the bill is based, there is no debate in particular. It is then decided whether to move on to the debate on articles. I call upon the proposal of the Council of Ministers if there is a need to explain. Given that they do not want to, I call on the President of the Commission to explain the report if necessary. I suggest we don't have a discussion today about the details, so we're just talking about principles. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6969	Dear President, dear colleagues, Mr. Ljubić actually said, I'm not going to repeat that here. I want to draw something. You probably know we're in the process... of three draft laws. There's been an agreement with the Venice Commission. One delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly went to Paris for the session that lasted all day, and at that session was Minister Zubak, Mr Ljubić, because there were two draft laws. There we agreed and established, in fact, that there should be one proposal to be the Council of Ministers' proposal, and Mr Ljubić accepted that he was amendingly acting on the law. After returning from Paris, indeed we sat together and Mr. Zubak and Mr. Ljubić and I and there were still gentlemen present and there were agreed these amendments. In such a way, the agreed amendments came to the Commission. The Commission also unanimously accepted the Council of Ministers' proposal, which accepted the amendments made by Mr Ljubić and I and the Commission, that we do not really need to complicate this more than we need to adopt what was agreed on the Commission. Well, the chairman, you go ahead. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6970	I would like to thank Mr. Osman Brk, who, as President of the Commission, explained what the Commission was doing, but again, I would like to note that this is about first reading. This is, then, Article 95. Here's the debate. Is anyone picking up? He's not answering. So there are no principles, so we need to make a statement about that first reading. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. 31 voted and 31 was in favour. So we've adopted this report, and we can cross over when it's time to vote, and the discussion of the details means the amendment. Before moving to the next item of the agenda, the distinguished representative, Mr Filipović, has one intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6971	At first, I wanted to suggest that we take advantage of the business opportunity, since I feel there will be no amendment until the second reading to move on to the second reading today to adopt this law because there is a full consensus in the Commission and...
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6972	That could be theoretically, maybe it would be good if, simply everyone could see that they read it one more time to adopt it on one of the next. I hope there won't be a lot of rst, you're the first to know that it's quite consistent. You've had amendments to that law that I've arranged with the group, and we've been all and accepted, and we've made a later joint intervention on this bill. Well, maybe it'd be good if everyone else didn't see what they were doing next. Is that how we can accept our esteemed representative? I thank you for the intervention, but here's to not be... We're going to the 11th point of the agenda. Ad.11. It is a proposal for a law on administration - first reading - proposed by the Council of Ministers on 16 January 2002. The Constitutional First Commission was responsible, which delivered its report 11.2. and the report was forwarded to the MPs 3.4. The procedure shall also be conducted here in accordance with Article 95. The Rules of Procedure, then, are only about the principles on which the law is laid down. So, no, there should be no discussion about the individual articles and the amendment phase. I'm opening it. Does the Council of Ministers want anyone in front of the motion to speak? There isn't. Is in front of the Commission, the report is... 3.4. There's no need. Here I am opening the debate. It's about first reading. It is therefore not urgent to intervene on individual articles. Is there anyone who'd like to see you as an esteemed representative? If someone doesn't want to discuss it at this stage, I suggest, I conclude the discussion and the debate. 49 I propose that we make a statement on the proposal for a first reading law - principles. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. 32 votes - 32 for. So, we adopted the Bill of Administration – first reading. So, follow further procedure. We're moving to agenda 12. Ad.12. Report on the implementation of the 2001 BiH Presidency budget There's a debate here about the report. Our status was, perhaps, around this point, given that this is a report on the implementation of the budget of one of the institutions that maybe the result of our debate is that we would not, if we voted, have to adopt it a little bit better. That's their report. Here I am opening a debate on this report delivered by the BiH presidency, meaning, on the implementation of the 2001 BiH presidency budget. That's their position. Is anyone picking up? Thank you. We can figure it out. Do you agree, since it's a suggestion to only take in knowledge? Are we in? Let's confirm it so it won't be too controversial later. Who's in? So we unanimously received the report. We didn't vote on the report. It's just that we agree on what I suggested. Who's against it? Who's restrained? So we took note of a report with 31 and 1 against. Thank you. We're going to the 13th agenda. Ad.13. The Annual Report of the Central Bank of BiH for 2001 and the Financial Report of the Central Bank of BiH from 31.12.2001 I am opening the debate. Is there anyone outside, the word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Kovačević. I hope you will immediately suggest how to determine whether to vote and accept or otherwise, given that this is your closest area. So we expect from you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6973	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable President of Parliament, honourable fellow MPs, MPs, I am now thinking whether to discuss or not. I was on the budget committee yesterday discussing it for half an hour. He was the Vice Governor of the Central Bank and I did 4-5 questions and I did not ask the Commission for the budget to answer me but told him to prepare himself and to answer these questions to me today. But there's no one now. I don't know now. And I have no intention of even asking myself questions and replicating myself. There's no one from the Council of Ministers, there's no one from the Central Bank, so I'm in a dilemma of what to do if I suggest that it be removed from the agenda or that, however, I suggest that it be adopted with certain remarks or so. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6974	I suggest, here's the College suggest that, given that the situation is so that we take it off the agenda and, please, if those who propose should send someone who will represent and suggest that for all of this next what happens, if there's no one to represent the views we're taking down, except these laws where we help the Council of Ministers. So, here, the College proposes that we take it off this session and that at the next session when there are gentlemen from the Central Bank defend this.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6975	So this, with the conclusion, is the report is usually for adoption, but there is a certain conversation and dialogue that needs to be opened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6976	I thank Mr. Kovačević for his intervention. So, we're taking off the current agenda of this session, and we're asking that at the next session, when that happens, a representative of the Central Bank who can answer questions and if there are needs and explanations. Ad.14. A report on the operations of the BiH Financial Institution's Financial Audit Office for 2001. I'm calling the Office's representative, if he has to say if he's ready to discuss and answer. There isn't. We suggest as a college we take off. It's no problem to come. There are different people here, Mr. Avdić has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6977	I think that at first sight this principle is correct unless there is a processor of material or a member of the Council of Ministers or an institution that has a report to remove the material in question from the agenda. However, you know well that the audit has a high level of confidence in this Parliament and the House of Representatives and in this context if there is a report from the Commission and if it is properly processed, I think there is really no reason to take it off the daily and that this report can be adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6978	I would like to thank Mr. Sead Avdić, the esteemed representative. This is how I propose we open it, we have a report from the Commission. I'm opening the debate. If there are questions, looking for some explanations then you know the result we'll have to take off. Can we do that? So, I'm opening a debate on this point 14 means a report on the business of the BiH institutions' Financial Audit Office for 2001. Who's calling in? The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Salih Kulenović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6979	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, we have now agreed to download this Central Bank report, and here we propose that this report go. Then I'd be here to discuss the Central Bank report, considering that yesterday we accepted that 51 report on the Commission. They accepted it. That's one thing. Secondly, there was a vice governor on the Commission and those questions that Mr Kovačević asked him about the report are intruding into something which is monetary policy, which is something beyond that report. It goes against, and if I'm not a financial expert, these are the issues of perspective, future, roles and importance of the Central Bank, etc. I see no reason not to accept this report today, with more respect to what Mr Kovačević asked Vice Governor and I hope the Vice Governor will answer those questions. These are, like, a little complex issues and monetary policy is tied up. So I think if we stick to the principle then we stick to the end or if we step down from the principle of discussing the Central Bank's report as well.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6980	I thank Mr. Salih Kulenović. I think this intervention used to be that way, but I think as far as this point is concerned, we can accept that this 14th continues to be discussed, and if it comes to adoption and this when we're done like this, I think we're going to call the gentlemen from the Central Bank, so I think it's good to hear some answers to some questions, and that's certainly not going to have a lot of impact on the adoption of the report. We can't go back now. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Boro Bjelobrk, and let the distinguished representative Mr. Đedović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6981	The more drastic a problem has happened in my court to two committees whose meeting I attended yesterday, the more I would like to carry out distinguished colleagues and colleagues, especially you from the College, because you have a business obligation. We already experience in the series that ministers and deputies do not respond to us to discuss proposals that are here on the agenda of the assembly. I will inform you that even as an MP in committees, I will insist that such matters are not given to committees, as I will definitely begin to object here against all the materials where I have no opportunity to talk to the motionary. Since we are merely MPs here now, there is no one from the Council of Ministers, Mr. President point j) obliges you to provide you and only when you document that you have provided it I will say that you are no longer responsible. But that's one benefit that lasts long in the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6982	I would like to thank Mr. boriti Bjelobrk, the esteemed representative. Rijeka has a respected representative, Mr Ibrahim Đedović. I call upon the Council of Ministers to join us in the session and ask the services to inform them orally.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6983	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I, as I understand it, have recently concluded, the truth is not by raising our hands, that we are not in principle discussing any material unless the promoter is there. If we're going to play cold, we're going to have this scene all the time, or we're going to discuss a report on the work of the Council of Ministers and there's no one there. I suggest that, indeed, we adopt the conclusion that there is no proposing when it comes to the agenda to debate, there is nothing to talk about. That principle will allow people who are obliged to give answers to them to sit here. That's it. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6984	I thank the esteemed representative Ibrahim Đedović. Is anyone else picking up? I'm finishing my dispersion. We're on the 14th wheel of the agenda. There's no need for a break. We'll take five minutes, but I think we can. I'm proposing a lunch break of five and a half. Tell me what's the problem with continuing at five and a half. We can't end this session that easily. So we adopted the new four points that, when the agenda was established, lasted 3-4 hours. I'll make a suggestion. We're required to work. We can't work this slow.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6985	Chairman, I'm asking you to keep working. What can we do without the Council of Ministers? Which we can't, if they don't show up in time, we're leaving it for another time without making an hour's break for no reason. We all almost had lunch, all of us.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6986	We work till five o'clock, then we give half an hour's break. So we're on point 14. We took a stand on the previous point, since there were no proposings to take down the agenda. I'm putting on a plea. Do you agree that this item 14 that is also the report on the financial audit office's business, since there is no one in front of the motion to postpone it when someone is. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? The abstentions? There isn't. So this point goes to the next session. I call upon the motionary to be present to defend their views. Ad.15. A report by the Commission on Human Rights, Refugees, Immigration and Asylum on visits to a number of BiH municipalities You received a report from the Commission. We've got him on the benches. I think everybody. I'm opening a debate. Does anyone in front of the Commission want to give an explanation? There isn't. Mr. Franjo Majdandžić has the floor. I've been calling. Here's when the honourable representative is finished, then.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6987	uvažen Members of Parliament, I, as a member of this working group, accept this report and conclusions, would only suggest one conclusion that, I think, is very important and this applies to the Municipality of Grahovo, in fact, to the Bosnian Grahovo, where about 3.5 thousand people returned, mostly Serbian, over 95% of the nationality, where no system of state urpava has been established. The situation is very critical, pathetic, sad. As a man, I ask that all measures be taken to ensure that the institutions of the state are put into practice. So, there's no one alive or the police or anyone in the employee community, people do that. It is fortunate that the security situation is very good, thanks to these people, to the understanding of these people. I ask and ask that intervention from the Council of Ministers to, in cooperation with the Federation and Canton Resolute Ministry, Canton is Livno, to do what needs to be done, to establish the basic institution of the system and that 53 systems rule, so that corruption, theft that already exists and other things reign and do what we do not want. So, I ask that these conclusions complement only this proposal of mys, that all the necessary actions are carried out for the Municipality of Bosnia and Herzegovina to establish the basic elements of the state system and administration and to bring it back to life, because it really is necessary. Secondly, I apologize to the Commission why I was not in a meeting, nor was I yesterday as a rapporteur, a rapporteur for simply not getting a call. I'm trago for an answer this morning why I didn't get that call, so I got a letter saying that I should apologize to those people who were supposed to call me, so I'm going to go apologize like this in those late years. I can see that nothing is appreciated here, and if anyone has the responsibility to take appropriate measures why they're so irresponsiblely working towards the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6988	I would like to thank Mr Franja Majdandžić's honourable representative, Mr Brka, in front of the Commission, and the Commission will definitely need to see later after the debate if there is a proposal to try and put in its conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6989	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, you have received this report. Today I asked the chairman to put him here today at the Parlment and I thank him and the College for accepting it and I believe that, indeed, the report from the field needs to go public as soon as possible and not to stand within us as they are. We summed up the visits we had last year and we unanimously adopted these conclusions at the committee's session. I'm not going to read the material, but I want to read the conclusions, and they're next. 1. It is necessary to implement the adopted amendments to the Constitution of the Federation of BiH and the amendment to the RS Constitution as soon as possible, based on the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people throughout the BiH area. 2. The Council of Ministers is tasked with launching an initiative to harmonise entity laws on refugees and displaced persons, as well as harmonising these laws with the state law on refugees and displaced persons in BiH. 3. It is up to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees to launch an initiative to establish a single BiH-level database on refugees and displaced persons, as well as data on submitted claims for the return of private property and housing rights, as well as data on returnees introduced in the possession of the property. 4. It is necessary to establish an estate fund of refugees and displaced persons at the Central Bank of BiH, which is also an obligation under the Dayton Agreement. The fund would be charged from entity budgets like from dedicated donations. The fund would finance the return and credit self-employment and employment of returnees, which would contribute to a sustainable return. 5. It is necessary to establish adequate co-operation between the BiH and RS health ministries and Brcko District in order to address the health care of the population of 54 border areas of entities. Also, entity ministries require better coverage of healthcare in municipalities where the return of refugees and displaced persons is intense. Six. At the level of the Federation of BiH, it is necessary to pass a law on the first fighters and, at the level of cantons and municipalities, to ensure equal financial treatment for the HVO and the BiH Army, in order to reduce the housing problems of these categories of population. Seven. It is recommended that entity ministries that have jurisdiction in the resolution on issues of fighters and disabled and civilian war victims establish co-operation in coordinating the rights of these categories of population in the Federation of BiH and RS. 8. Address BiH entities' governments and seek greater dynamics of law-making and relief for the employment of a refugee and exiled population. Nine. BiH's foreign ministry is asking the BiH Ministry to carry out activities towards the SRJ to make it possible to process the country and use the property on both sides of the BiH border and the SR Yugoslavia to regulate the border in the SRJ part. Ten. To speed up the adoption of regulations that would improve privatisation processes and the restitution process, thus enabling greater momentum of private entrepreneurship and employment. 11. The BiH Council of Ministers should step up activities with the competent authorities of the SRJ and the Republic of Croatia on the faster return of refugees, both those from the SRJ and the Republic of Croatia to BiH and those from BiH to the said countries. 12. With a view to faster and sustainable return of refugees and displaced persons, it is necessary to mobilise all BiH authorities as well as its entities, in order to provide greater funds for return, improvement of accommodation capacity and faster resolution of returnees' unemployment, and this should be a permanent task for the current authorities. That's the conclusion. I reserve the right to discuss this report a little bit more as an MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6990	I'd like to thank Mr. Brk's esteemed representative. Is anyone picking up? The word has a distinguished representative Mr. Miro Grabovac Titan. As a chaos, you certainly try to make sure that you also use these suggestions from other MPs who are compatible and improve the text.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6991	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, as Vice-President of the Commission and the leader of a group who visited the Herzegovina-Neretva County and how I have an obligation to talk about what we saw in the field. I must say that in Herzegovina-Neretva County and the municipalities we visited that we encountered a positive reception, I must say that we are surprised to see a positive impact on the functioning and co-operation between representatives and Bošnjak, Hrvat and Srbin. I have to say 55 that the return to this county in the municipalities and bridges and municipalities of Stolac and Capljina goes with one positive dynamic, with this return slowed down because the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons both state and entity levels, and I don't think the entity level has given attention enough and helped that return and hasten it, and has created it sustainable. I therefore believe that we have very many negative situations in particular in camps that are temporary accommodation in this county, if we have 8 camps in the Herzegovic-Neretva County area where 1,185 people are located. I have to tell the camps that are in Capljina in Domanovici that we have visited are in a very difficult position and I think that the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced and Persons is required and obliged to intervene on that part and help these people in order for them to be able to live normally or in normal conditions. In the Municipality of Capljina where you have children from birth to old people, and the conditions in these camps are for not knowing if I can tell you about the Stone Age. I therefore believe that these people must be helped, that they must be provided, because too many people are situated in these small spaces, both in Domanovici. I think one more thing is very important, if we consider that one of the first places that died in the beginning of the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that is, because it is not a war but a conflict in international terms, I believe that and that, in my opinion, it is necessary to help the Municipality of Ravno, because there has been no return, there has been an outcast. And according to the information we received there, the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons, at least through institutions, or municipal institutions, has not intervened at all and has not helped rebuild that part, especially when it is important to import roads related to the municipalities straight from the interior of the country and simply that people can communicate with that part. When it comes to the municipality of Neum, I also think it is necessary to connect the traffic from Capljina to Neum and thus shorten the length of the road, as well as the problems that arise at the borders with a view to crossing over the Republic of Croatia and, of course, allowing Neum as an integral part of Bosnia and Herzegovina so that it can operate in the interior of the country as it means from the extreme point of Bosnia and Herzegovina towards the interior. I think that roadway is also a priority for this part. I believe that the return has slowed down in that part that there is no alternative accommodation, and given that over 50% of the housing units in this county have not been restored, and foreign donors have almost stopped or almost failed, and interventions that should go through the institutions of the state-level entities are not sufficiently or almost forgotten. I therefore draw attention and regret that there is no one here in front of the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons in order to warn this part that a better coordination of state, entity and county institutions must be made, and in order to return and to make a sustainable return. I must say that on the table of the Dubrovnik highlands of the Municipality of Stolac and the Municipality of Capljina is a large number of returnees and people are satisfied with the return of their property and have returned. However, a sustainable return is also important, we have even encountered people who have, failed and old foreign exchange savings and offer loans or for machinery of 250, 300 thousand marks of old foreign exchange savings, which is their property to give them only machines that they could work for, possibly worth 30 and 40 thousand marks. I therefore believe that these people should be taken into account and should be helped to make this return sustainable. Once again, I appeal to the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons and both at the level of the state, so at entity level to take more account and to reduce this bureaucratic 56 apparatus, i.e. bureaucratic approach and at the level of municipalities, especially in municipalities where bridges are located, are no longer a problem of national problems, but the Hrvat is in one municipality and the other, and one municipality is not able to unbutton, or the problem creates around infrastructure such as telephone, water and so on. So I can, I believe that Mrs. Bahrija and Dr. The Cuplov shares my opinion, because we have visited all these places and I must say that we are positively surprised and satisfied with what we have seen in this county, by appealing that the institutions of the authorities take much more care of this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6992	I thank the honourable representative Mr. Miri Grabovac Titan. Before we continue this session, as we said, we should now take a break. We do. There's still a few jobs to be done in the break. Now we've received a notice from the Audit Office, unfortunately they weren't notified in time. Now their representative has arrived, and I suggest that when and after the break, when we finish this point, let's get back to that point, because I think it's correct, since people didn't get a call for this session. They got him somewhere 10 minutes ago on the phone, so we can get back to that report. So after the break. In the break, I call for Mr. Banjac's honourable representative, who, for the sake of private obligations, had to leave the session, urged his deputy, honourable representative, Mr. Begović, to convene a session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission to discuss that dà an opinion on the constitutional basis of the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina so that the phase could also be the Budget Act. So in the break, the Commission, resumes at 5:30. And I suggest we work somewhere by 8:00 if we don't finish before. ...on the 15th item of the agenda is Mr. Osman Brka's esteemed representative. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6993	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I also have a need as an MP to say something about our visit by me, Mrs. Kamberović Violeta and Mr. Jovanović Miloš in the area of Bijeljina, Janja and Srebrenica. I think it's important to me that the MPs hear this, and it's important for me that the press hear what I'm about to say. Namely, in our visit to Bijeljina, Janja and Srebrenica, which we from the Commission have announced neatly four times, we were not a little surprised when we came to Bijeljina, and the hosts were surprised by where we were from in Bijeljina. So we were received by the surprised Mr. Stević Branko, Deputy Chief of the Municipality, and in the next office he was chief with some guests, we haven't even seen each other. Mr. Stević Branko was very correct. He invited gentlemen, some gentleman from Omija, this is Mr Mitrić Vlado, who came, but neither of us had any indicators that we should have had in that conversation that was correct we were left without numerous data. But we also heard some things that are good and some that aren't very good. For example. It's a good thing they say there's a lot of going back to the Bijeljina municipality. We have indeed made sure that it is a relatively good return to Janja, but in Bijeljina it is not a good return. And maybe that's why we didn't even have the right data in Bijeljina and Janja. 57 When it comes to this, we are convinced in Janja, where we were received by Mr. Nenad Čuturica with activists in the local community who also said that they also invited people from Omi, but did not come to them. So that's one of those ways, we weren't very welcome in that space. Furthermore, one problem is to say very significantly. We've actually adopted unanimous conclusions and I'm not asking for this to go into conclusions, but to simply know that it is so, that there are a lot of employment problems where, say, it worked before the 92nd and a half thousand Bošnjak on the Municipality of Bijeljina, it's practically not working now, etc. I mean, that's one terrible piece of information. Another terrible piece of information to me is that there are a lot of large areas on the right side of the Drina which is owned by Bošnjak who have previously worked uninterruptedly without being able to see them there today at all. We have a conclusion here that we have suggested that indeed at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the state of Yugoslavia try to resolve it. I'm most disappointed, you'll probably be surprised by the visit of Srebrenica, you know. About Srebrenica, we all know everything, but I am after returning from Srebrenica one time when some of my ahbabi asked me what he said there – I would if he had power, and unfortunately I would not forbid it from anyone to talk about Srebrenica who wasn't there. I claim that in Srebrenica, I claim very responsibly to this Parliament and the public that no one has done their part of the job in Srebrenica. Neither the Republika Srpska, nor the Federation, nor the states of Bosnia and Herzegovina, nor the international community. And I'll bring it up with the following arguments. The only good thing about Srebrenica is for me that the hosts and the president of the municipality and the chief of Bošnjak and Srbin people spoke literally the same language about the problems in Srebrenica. They said they weren't contradictory at all. I'm really disappointed with the situation in Srebrenica and I'm sorry that there's no High Representative here today to say it in front of him. It's a shame to go take pictures in Srebrenica, and leave behind a situation like that in Srebrenica. It's a shame to me. I may be tough, but what can I do when I'm like that? It's a fact of fact, I'm bringing him out to be like that. The situation was, so we got a picture there that one moment at a meeting with these people in Srebrenica, I suggested that Milos and Violets try to send some help out of our municipalities symbolically. On the spot and Miloš and Violeta and I thank them, they accepted immediately. And I know that they and I both reacted in their municipalities, and I know that on April 19th, there's already a truck that went to help Srebrenica. Thank you to the Chief of the Tešanj Municipality and the municipal council who responded immediately when I asked them, and thank you to Miloš and Violeta who launched this in Zvornik and Orasja. I'm only talking about symbolism. I'm talking about those responsible for making Srebrenica do what they owe. Nobody does what's due. I'd have a lot more to say, but I think this time is enough. If you need anything, I'll say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6994	I'd like to thank Mr. Osman Brk for his esteemed representative. Who's picking up the word? The word has a respected representative, Mr Abdurahman Malkić. Is there anyone else applying for a discussion or is that enough? So the Commission was doing a good job. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6995	I'd like to say hello, gentlemen, and welcome you to the fact that I didn't go out today, and while the chairman of the council here is about to hear this until he's gone. The commission that was doing this report, I want to raise today two issues that need to be addressed in Srebrenica. It is issues that are interstate between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Yugoslavia, on the other hand. Namely, it's about the next one. In previous periods, the municipality of Srebrenica had certain subsidies, i.e. receipts, remuneration, i.e. a submerged land on the basis of submerged land on the basis of submerged land. Now there is nothing to do and I ask the Council of Ministers, Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign minister to carry out activities on the matter and that the Srebrenica Municipality has the opportunity to receive certain funds based on the rent, based on the submerged land. The second issue concerns public health care in the Skelani local community. Namely, it is an area 40 km away from Srebrenica and worse they do not have adequate health care, until they themselves are bajan bašta. As Chairman of the Management Board of the Srebrenica Home, we have updated the issue and have been tasked with bringing it out here to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to carry out activities that the population has the possibility of emergency assistance in Bajna Basta and to make an interstate agreement on this matter. And about the other problems that MP Brk was talking about, he wouldn't be now. What he said in his introduction is that there's a lot of talk about Srebrenica, they're taking a lot of pictures, they're taking a lot of pictures, and no one, no one's carrying out their duties. In the last adoption of the Rebalanse budget, we adopted the Rebalansa amendment of mine where it is said that the Srebrenica Municipality should meet and allow it 500 thousand KM to help with the return, reconstruction and more. Until today, it has not been realised, and I ask for the activity to be carried out, to be distributed, and I urge that in Budget we adopt the 29th, where I will re-apply the amendments to the appeal and thus help the area of the Srebrenica Municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6996	I thank the honourable representative, Mr Abdurahman Malkić. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Mustafa Cuplov.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6997	I want to point out one fact that's been put out on this road, not now, but every time we've been on the ground today, it's not brought up, I'm apostropheming again. Pensioners from Republika Srpska, returnees in the Federation territory and vice-retiremental pensioners from the Federation by going to Republika Srpska fall into an unprecedented administrative problem that has been eroded by the constant harassment of these people. I can't raise my pension in the space where they came back, you know. It's just one administrative misunderstanding, and it seems to me that, with a little effort at the state level and understanding on entity level, the problem could be overcome, and they've complained massively, and in a huge percentage, it's a retirement category of people who return to the problem. Of course, the problem of health care followed by pensioners, it is under the system of automation in both Republika Srpska and the Federation, with a certain level of health care that 59 stems from their pensioner status, does not also follow the right to return. Until a complete system is established which, at some point, I hope to establish health care throughout the entire area at that minimum amount, I would like to appeal to this one means entity authorities and what can be done at the state level to try to solve these two problems pro-problemly.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6998	Just a little quiet, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u6999	and prevent the constant harassment and loss of people's nerves with all the problems they have, they still have a problem with this one that could be avoided.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7000	I would like to thank Mr. Cuplov's esteemed representative. Is anyone else answering for word? If he doesn't call, I'll close the debate. We've had a few debaters here. We have a report from the Commission on human rights, immigration, refugees and asylum visiting a number of municipalities. Here was a suggestion, one proposal from the distinguished representative of Mr. Franjo Majdandžić. Should I read it again? So we're going to get it out of these conclusions, and certainly what you're proposing, we're going to tell the authorities to solve it. It's a question that is of the interest of citizens who can help their normal lives. So if that doesn't work, then we'll intervene differently. So the distinguished representative suggested adding one more position to this report to urgently take the appropriate measures to establish the administration system institutions in the Bosansko Grahovo municipality. The resolution ministry is tasked with taking appropriate measures with the relevant Federation Ministry and the Canton Ministry of Canton Livno. I don't know if this is gonna work. We just need to see how we can do it or try to formulate one conclusion from this. To be directed means to the competent federal ministry and the cantonal to take all measures to address this issue. Not to be burdened, I don't know. Maybe it would be good if we didn't burden this one of yours. Here's how the MPs are. Is that what the Commission can do? No problem then. Okay. I then, since it means that we got the report, we had a report from the President of the Commission. The word has a respected representative, Mr Mirko Mijatović. But just try these conclusions so we don't go back to the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7001	I would really welcome Parliament's efforts and general commitment in this direction, you know, but I am interested in simply further work on this matter and such commissions. We've already had one report. There was a lot of controversy about this report, including the alignments, etc. So now we have another report. 60 The second time, we shall have perhaps the third time, and the fourth time, and the first time, and the first time, and the rounds, and the tours, and the work, I have nothing against, indeed. But you see what's happening to us, I would suggest you don't. After each individual date, you have a report, but each report has some general features with which you prejudge certain things or you don't fully see them gentlemen, let me tell you. Now you're treating the assumption of a relationship with Yugoslavia, there is no relationship with Croatia, let's assume. Or, just a little bit, look, or I would suggest, if the Commission really has such a claim, I would like to have, then some general conclusions should be seen in a unique way, and a single report in the area of a particular region, a particular canton, etc. that it has its specificities, etc. However, these conclusions, which tend to be of general character, they go through one report and through another report, through a third report so that it remains unspecified and is not adequate for the overall situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm saying it in the best of terms, and it should be systemized in a certain way. I've been listening to you gentlemen, I'd like it to be the way you talk. In certain parts it is, but I was listening to the report from Herzegovacho-Neretvain Canton, Mr. Titan, I liked it the way you say it, but I'm not exactly convinced and I live downstairs so I know a lot of things. You'd be lucky if you did. Some things are apostrophe here. I think the situation in Srebrenica is what I believe, but you have a hundred other places where it's similar, etc. So I'm afraid that in further work, we don't dazzle into some extremes, is it just one segment to look at, and maybe we're forgetting other segments that are far more significant? No problem, don't get me wrong, that I am against the work of the Commission or against the return, etc., but we should be more selective in the future with the claim if you're going to make some general conclusions that they are unique, that they relate to everything, and individual cases concerning the region, etc. who have their specifics to be in special reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7002	I would like to thank Mr. Mirko Mijatović, the esteemed representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7003	I very much respect Mr. Mijatović's opinion indeed, and I know it's well-intentioned, but I have to give a brief explanation. I think the public of Parliament's work and the public of the work of all committees is one of the elements that is very important for this Parliament. The fact that the Commission is bypassing the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina so far, at least of all people, and in Parliament, outside Parliament, I have heard that it is good and that it can improve certain relations. We know that we're not so likely to be able to do this quickly, but the fact is, I'm saying, because I trust people who were on the ground to be, for example. a shift in the Neretva Valley compared to leaving first and now significant. I'm not going to say big, I'm not going to say like this, like this, but significant. But he's got it. And we are really trying in the work of the Commission to look at everything on the same terms and the same angle, and I will only visit Mr. Mijatović here when we were in Gradisca we talked about the problem of relations with the Republic of Croatia because of refugees. I even asked a parliamentary question on the subject today. It means to me when I was talking about Srebrenica and Janja I can't talk about Croatia because there is a neighbour in Yugoslavia not Croatia, you understand. 61 So we don't avoid talking about any problem or hiding it under the carpet. I believe that in Bosnia and Herzegovina only plainly speaking can be found in order to clearly find a problem. To solve that problem so he doesn't stay under the rug. Any problem that remains under the carpet only becomes a bigger problem and in future times harder to solve. So that is our intention, if Parliament considers that the Commission does not have to do this, the Commission will certainly listen to what Parliament is telling it. But I really think that this kind of work is useful for both the Commission and Parliament and for the overall public change in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7004	I would like to thank Mr. Brk's esteemed representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Tošić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7005	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say a few words. We support the work of a committee like this, but I think this is enough for us to know about our Parliament. The conclusions we need to make a statement about we need to have one complete picture in Bosnia and Herzegovina of all municipalities. I'd like you to explain to me what selection you've made a report from these municipalities. What was your leadership? I ask where the municipality of Ilijah, where the municipality of Ilijaš, is, here is the municipality of Han Pijesak where there is a remarkable return and where there is not one single problem, etc. If we want to talk affirmatively about some returns or if we want to generalise at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So we support the Commission's work. We believe that all municipalities in Bosnia and Herzegovina should be visited, and when we get this way in the second version of the next 10 municipalities, then we will be tasked with doing the remaining 20 and then we can make a decision, or we will adopt conclusions at Parliament and Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives. So this is what we accept, we have received knowledge and now we suggest that you move on. That's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7006	I would like to thank Mr. Tošić, the honourable representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Miro Grabovac Titan, and let the honourable representative, Mr. Franjo Majdandžić, be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7007	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, I have a small intervention when it comes to my colleague, and I have to say that what I said and what the Commission said in my report is exactly what's on the ground. We've visited the return points where they return, the returnees are both Hrvat and Bošnjak and Srbin. There is no problem with the national conflicts of return, but there are problems that people from Republika Srpska who are returning have not been resolved when it comes to pension admission, when it comes to health insurance due to the non-compliance of the legal rules between MIA and PIA here and Republika Srpska, so a Srbin who returned to Mostar must go to Bijeljin to raise his pension that is being recalculated in Republika Srpska, or vice versa. Therefore, there is really progress in the 62nd Herzegovina-Neretva County, believe me, I was surprised to see how much progress is made compared to the previous time. Of course, he may have left later than he did in other places, but in that short time, he certainly took a big step. Therefore, I believe that the conclusions of this commission should be adopted, because the Commission did not walk because of what it was walking, but was walking to see what these problems are and what it suggests through its conclusions how to improve the situation of returnees, how to improve return, how to make this return sustainable. I therefore believe that these conclusions should be adopted. When it comes to the proposal to supplement my colleague Majdandžić's conclusion, I don't know if it should be inserted now because we all had time to propose a proposal in the report and give conclusions. Based on our reports and suggestions for conclusions, the overall report and conclusion are summed up. So I don't know how much that part of this conclusion essentially changes. I don't have anything against him, but I think we're all like groups that have been deployed on the ground should have been in the report and a proposal for conclusions. This part of the conclusion that stands here so far I stand behind him as a member of this committee who has been going around the field and the situation is like this. Thus, together with us were representatives of all the levels of institutions that were in charge of this area and the levels of the county and the municipalities and representatives of the people who worked in those institutions. So I have nothing different to say than this, and probably my colleagues who were with me downstairs on the ground that this is the truth that we're talking about. So the truth is this part, is it for someone or not? _____________: [[speaks from place]] I think that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Commission is working on its plan of activity and the tour of all areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina and one group are going to certain areas of Republika Srpska and the Federation, one only of the Federation, one of only Republika Srpska and they are rotating. So there is a total plan for a tour of the area, the entire area of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And we should ask your colleague Miloš. He's the Vice-President of the Commission. So, as planned, we've been going around this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7009	I would like to thank Mr. mir Grabovac's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7010	It's just not a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7011	Then he's blaming the quote. You always say unanimous, and then you're the only one who's discussing it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7012	I don't dispute those facts. I don't really dispute those facts, but that report is incomplete, gentlemen. Let me tell you something if you want. You say there are these, these problems are drastic, far more drastic than that progression. Yeah, for example. I know that while you're in Trebinj right now, while you're at it, go to Trebinje and you'll see that you have thousands of people out there from Herzegovina-Neretva canton who don't defend anyone, I don't argue with that, what you said on a rational basis, 63 I really found out. But they don't have anywhere to go back. And on the other hand, you have the next situation, that you have 300 sealed apartments in Trebinj. I don't slow it down either, believe me, and no one comes back. They're freed and there's no such obstruction. And those people who can't come back, you know what happens to them. They're naked martyrs who have nothing to pay the rent, they manage to run, they can't live. Or go with his head no matter what, etc.itd. In that sense, I was just discussing when I was saying that I hope so. It's not a complete picture, it's not a complete situation, and we can't, look, we should look at the situation thoroughly. I said, Mr Tošić said, don't get it wrong now that we are against the Commission's work. And let it be formed and let it go. And that's progress, etc., but I'm afraid that through improvisation, it's not improvising what you saw, let's assume, it's not improvising, but it's not complete information if it's not thoroughly seen. I'm afraid these conclusions are individual, etc. with the pretense that... (100% or through-unclear) we draw some general conclusions. Don't mistake things, don't get me wrong. I would like to draw the right conclusions in order to truly return, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7013	I would like to thank Mr. Mirko Mijatović, the esteemed representative. The honourable representative, Mr. Franjo Majdandžić, appeared earlier. Mr. Majdandžić, you can wait here, sit down, say the replica, correct the quote, let's see if it's better for the refugees and the others.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7014	I have to answer to my colleague, Mijatović. It's exactly what you're saying, and I said in my statement that it's not a problem on this part, but the problem of the functioning of the ministries and institutions from the state to the level of the municipality below is through the entities. So there's no support for that return. There's no donor. The same situation is on Plehan in Derventa where the houses are torn down, no one's defending their return, please, but it's in the country. So someone needs to make that comeback and make it sustainable, and that's what we in the proposals in the conclusions have stated what it is to improve that part. Coordinations are the coordination of institutions in charge of this part. And that, I don't think our exposure is any different. So there are no more problems that are obstacles to return, either on a national basis or on other grounds. It's just the material assets that are needed downstairs, and the donors have stopped or given very little. So that's where the problems are. It is also the same thing in the Federation's premises, i.e. at the premises of Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7015	I thank the honourable representative Mr. Miri Grabovac Titan. Mr Majdandžić's honourable representative has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7016	I'll just be brief and beg your patience. I don't understand fellow Tošić, Mijatović, I don't understand at all, I don't understand how he can even step forward, so he's discussing himself. This refers to those municipalities which were the subject of group visits and the conclusions relate to them. And that's what it says. I don't know what it would say. If we're going to write Greek, should we write in another 64 languages? So that's where it says, and you're asking the question. I don't know what we're doing today, how we want to do it. So it refers to...the conclusions of those who say according to a particular model also show that one model is respected for all together. One system that needs to be taken, speeded up and the rest to do what needs to be done. This is what a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina should say to him, and not one representative who went there to talk to the responsible, made an effort, resimitedly, to make a proposal here, and we say now let's throw it in the water. Are you opposed to Mr Tošić as Franjo Majdandžić as a Hrvat struggles to establish system institutions in a municipality where 95% of Srbin, Serbian nationalities, are citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7017	Don't defend the Srbin from me, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7018	No, that's how you fight for it. I'm fighting for it to be established while I'm here as a representative, etc. Is that bad? Then I don't understand anything. I don't understand how to work. So it's pretty clear, and it doesn't need anything, unless we want to do anything. Then we can accept it that way. This report should be adopted, the conclusions that bind the relevant executive bodies at the level of the Federation, at the level of this ministry, at canton level. I added another conclusion that could be combined with this conclusion. It refers exclusively to the Municipality of Grahovo. Let's read it and see how comparative it is, if it isn't for you to make another proposal and we'll adopt. There must mostly be some state institutions if we want to live in that country. And there's no such thing. And what's wrong with that? What's wrong? I really don't understand it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7019	I thank the esteemed representative Mr. Franja Majdandžić. The word has an honourable representative or, then, the honourable representative Mr. Tošić, and may the honourable representative of Mr. Senad Šarganović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7020	I think it's incorrect of Mr Majdandžić to produce here individually, because absolutely, I said that I support, that I support the report of such a commission, that I think they should continue to work. I asked them what criteria they handled when they entered these municipalities, because they're in some parts of the extreme. You don't need to tell us about Grahov as much as there was when we know the Serbian people well before this conflict, etc. Or about the Woodman. These are extreme municipalities according to the national structure before the war. But I ask you, where are the other municipalities? I ask you why you were only in these municipalities? So I asked you a few questions that I'm not saying now that I'm not saying it again. Therefore, as an MP, I absolutely support the work of the Commission, I believe that this report of yours today is to be taken to the knowledge, to tell you to continue this work, to enter into the other part of the municipalities, now to re-do one new selection of municipalities, so when we process all this so that we can in some order, by some statistics, say that we are now probably 65 percent of the problems of return at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, then we will draw conclusions and as a parliament to direct who will be committed to one ministry, according to the other ministry, to the entity of the Republic of Serbia and the entity of the Federation, etc. That was my conclusion, man, and don't interpret anything wrong here. Well, if you want to do that then put out a stenogram and let's see what I've said. You are now defending Srbin from MP Tošić. Please don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7021	I would like to thank Mr. Tošići's esteemed representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Senad Šarganović, and let the distinguished representative of Mrs. Bahrija Osmanović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7022	I also support this commission's report and I believe that this commission is working a lot and that there are reports that we can see one activity out there. However, I am interested in whether the Commission is monitoring the situation after it has been in certain areas in Bosnia and Herzegovina and whether the situation is being corrected after the Commission comes here, report, we take note and adopt conclusions etc. What has moved quality forward in solving these problems where our committee of this Parliament has been staying from the aspect of the implementation of property laws and the impact of a certain set of laws by the High Representative on improving the situation in the area of return of property, etc. etc. And whether a certain number of laws are resolved faster, that crazy can live better or slower, etc. I think we should have little information to encourage this legislative activity, etc. However, I am interested in one more thing, whether the Commission has any chance of saying there or on the spot, we will contribute to that and that problem being solved from the point of view of financial, legal, this, that. Or just make promises.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7023	I would like to thank Mr. Senad Šarghanović, the esteemed representative. The word has the distinguished representative Mrs. Bahrija Osmanović. We'll do it in a row.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7024	I think I will be, I think my discussion will be the last on this subject. I had no intention of going out for this speaker at all to say anything about our report because it was so said in the report that I think it was clear to all of you what we were doing, what our intention was and what we suggested further. I'll just answer a few questions. The first time we entered a project like this we had in mind that we would visit every part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory. So, our activity has imagined, and I'm going to do my homework that we're going to do it and we're going to do it. There won't be any municipalities that we won't enter that municipality and see the situation there. I'm surprised at the discussion of some colleagues who say, and I'll quote it this way, so one of us here when he dies and waits, let's wait until we all move and we'll have a funeral. That's pretty much it. These conclusions that are written they shouldn't have time to wait. Gentlemen, I have 66 things to say to you very important. We have encountered a collective center of old unsettled immobilized patients who and the villa when they were made in the place of residence are unable to return to their place. Such patients should be placed in geriatric centres which are the direct need in this country. That doesn't have time for you to wait. If we want to help these people. What the MP was talking about, my colleague from the Commission on the regulation of health care rights and pension protection. So is it possible in this country that someone in Tuzla could have obtained the right to retire to have to go for that pension in Bijeljin or vice versa? These are technical things that can be dealt with immediately. The integrity of our proposals should be waited for means that we go around the municipalities and finally adopt these proposals and do what we propose. What does that mean? It means they're still waiting for the problems that are visible. Keep going. In our work, there is a lack of representatives from the restoring ministries. I suggest, and my colleagues will probably agree with me. Every tour needs someone leaving the Council of Ministers to hear what we hear, to see what we see and to act as it should. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7025	I thank the distinguished representative, Mrs. Bahrija Osmanović. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Sead Buturović. Just answer the phone, don't answer the ad hoc.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7026	Well, I wouldn't answer that. I really wouldn't answer, because I thought this would go faster. We're always spinning in some vicious circle. The problem of returning from political nature has been turned to economic nature. The problem of coming back is economics now, it's no longer political. The return will no longer be able to provide donations that are not available, because they are nothing. So you would appeal here, maybe this is the moment to delegate everything in this Parliament to meet the conditions of Rod Mep as soon as possible to enter the European integration processes, to attract foreign investments to push to help us start the economy and then we'll all be better off in this country, and so we'll all get back to our own. And this is only if we're just talking about this and the important laws, the important things are waiting for us, and we're dealing with things that we're not going to solve, we're just going round and round and round and round, and we're wasting time. So I appeal again let's move faster to adopt those laws that are needed to enter European integration to secure investment. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7027	I would like to thank Mr. Buturović, the honourable representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mrs Branislava Ferzanović. Let the honourable representative, Mr. Marko Amidžić, be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7028	Ladies and gentlemen, I am extremely sorry that this report on a visit to a number of municipalities in Bosnia and Herzegovina has not been discussed together with this information that we received today at the tables of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, which has been named – Information on 67 implementation of the Annex VII of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and would certainly be able to improve, or give more tasks to this information, that is, to this Council of Ministers, with the commendation of this committee, which has done very much and given a lot of information about its visits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7029	I thank the distinguished representative, Mrs Branislava Ferzanović. Mr. Marko Amidžić has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7030	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, I hope you'll forgive me for this slow and late involvement in this debate, but perhaps even at a possible claim to find a solution here. Look, we've had one of these similar debates at Parliament, we've had thoughts twice about the tensions over conclusions, repairs, etc. And I think that's when the conclusions were finally kind of adopted. Mr. Noisy, I'm sorry to call you, but I think so. With the last alignment, well, there's an argument more. Watch out, so we're exhausting ourselves again on something objective, the eye of the check objectively we haven't found the procedure and acceptance and the use means the realization of it. I propose precisely because of this already practiced practice that we have, because of the objective of this shorter time, an additional method of approach to this issue. First, let's accept this report and your grades. I suggest that you do not insist on conclusions, because they will hang objectively as they did before, but so I suggest, and forgive me for being pretentious as an advocate to adopt one conclusion that, with this report, the evaluation and the situation on the ground, the Commission is suggesting that it organises one of its thematic sessions, invites the holders of executive authorities dealing with these issues, the institutions of the entire return society and that you promote your conclusions at that meeting, which surely have one useful value in terms of coordination to fix and respect something. I think it would give you one more chance to because why you're really fighting hard you get some real support on the ground instead of some let's say the verbal support you can get here, and you probably won't get some conclusions at home. I'm sorry about this proposal, but I think this might be one of the contents of your work on this return issue. And whether or not Dom agrees with it or not, but I think it would be some kind of solution that certainly wouldn't give you the motive to work would open up communication to you, and it wouldn't legalize activities... and our troubles here about adopting certain conclusions. I'll tell brkati why, gentlemen. Well, we've unanimously adopted foreign policy conclusions here. Based on these conclusions, we've been working together this year. The Commission's finding yesterday is that no information, analysis and the rest of what we've been looking for have been received. I don't want that conclusion. I really don't need those conclusions. This is for an illustration of what fate our conclusions have. It's a reality and we can insist on something. So let's get rich in working methods and commissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7031	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Marko Amidžić. I mean, I'm bound to sum up a little bit what we've been doing here. We've had a lot of discussion. The main issues of the Commission's plans and activities have also arisen. I thought it was the Commission of this home where the representatives of several parties, people and entities, I 68 would really suggest that you continue your activities, make a plan, so if you need to plan that yours for the next time you also deliver to Parliament so that it can be distributed to all MPs. It is particularly important that we also have this dimension of what Mr. Šarganović, the esteemed representative, said, to follow the realization of the agreed, to follow at least on certain issues here, which was spoken by the esteemed representative Abdurahman Malkić, because these are the problems of ordinary people, whether we adopt the conclusions or not. The problems remain, and we have to do something about them. And regardless of what I say we decide now, should we vote, I will not vote as chairman with the kolegij to ask that these issues be resolved as regards health care, as far as health care is concerned, these issues cannot wait, I say you adopted or did not adopt us some of these issues we must move on. So I'm saying that here we try to end this point somehow, here's the word for the final discussion of Mr. Brka's distinguished representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7032	I really don't like being around Parliament much for a day. I'm too much today, but I just feel obliged to say something. I've really tried and I'm trying to make this committee work very publicly and transparently, and that's how it works. And I say we bring it all in unanimity. The plan of work, the visitation plan is accepted by any man who is on the Commission, who is a member of the Commission and who proposes. It means safe. I argue here in the Commission's work we have no problems with the 9 that we do. So no one puts anything on someone else. We take out, propose and adopt together. If that's not the way one of these colleagues says it. If no one says it means I'm saying what it is. We seek to warn the public, to warn the executive authorities. I can't believe, I don't believe that any MP who's debated anyone here, I believe that everyone with the intention of having a good discussion, but that none of us can be against the fact that as a parliament, we warn the executive authority at any level in this country -- de gents in this segment do better. I don't believe any of us can raise a hand against that. If we suggest that something is being resolved faster, something is going for the good of the citizens at a certain level, and I cannot believe that these conclusions unanimously voted on by the Commission cannot be accepted here. I would like someone to tell me that this conclusion is against citizens of any one in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I believe that they should vote, that they should be put to the vote, because the Commission unanimously voted and that when we vote them, we can send them to the Council of Ministers and send them to the governments of the entity and tell them – gentlemen, our Parliament points to those cases at this moment because they were there. In a month or two, we'll be in second place. We'll try as long as we have three or four months' mandates, five doesn't matter if we visit at least two more visits. This is our third. Three of us had, three tours. We've been reporting this to you, it's been at an understanding. Last time, he was at an agreement over a dispute. You all know what point 5 is so we don't repeat it now. But now we don't have such issues. There was no disputed point on the Commission. It is now voted unanimously and that is why I, I really ask you to put it to a vote so let's see, if you can't accept it, it's the best sign to the Commission that you shouldn't then work. My people don't, I really don't want to go on tours if they don't have hires. I want those trips of ours to have hires there. Believe me, wherever we came from, when we came to Kotor Varosh a few months ago, people said you were the first people from the state, the first people from the country to come to Kotor Varosh. Never had anyone come out of the country. I don't speak from an entity. It also means to those ordinary people on 69th Street and to those people who are responsible officials in those municipalities. That's right. That's what I claim benefits. If this parliament says it shouldn't work, but I hope it won't say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7033	I would like to thank Mr. Brk's esteemed representative. Mr. Marko Amidžić has the word. And then the esteemed representative is either a businessman or, then Mr. Spasojević will.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7034	Gentlemen, I hope you understand my intentions. I am giving up my entire discussion, giving up the proposal and voting on the Commission's proposal for a conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7035	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Marko Amidžić. The same intervention from the respected Mr. Tošić. And then let the distinguished representative, Mr. Zoran Spasojević, be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7036	Since I thought we were going to take this suggestion of me voting on the report and leaving the conclusions for some other part, I can see that's not working in that direction. Please, just ask the Commission one question and give me an answer. Here you have found that currently there are between 7,000 and 8,000 inhabitants in the Drvar Municipality, that before the war food was 18,300 inhabitants, of which 29% of the population of Serbian nationality. So there are now between 7,000 and 8,000, of which 3,500 inhabitants of Croatia and 4,500 thousand Serbian nationality. The number of employees is around 1,300, with 1,100 displaced persons of Croatian nationality and 200 returnees of Serbian nationality. So the Serbs have more than Croats at the moment, but these are 1,100, and these are 200. Where's that conclusion of yours? Here is a specific example, and we have a hundred of them in this report of yours, where you are ultimately offering to have someone in this Bosnia and Herzegovina say stand up, gentlemen, and let's see where the problem is. Here's what I'm asking on a correct one question - so I can vote on this conclusion I have to do when I go to the Drvar to answer people why did I vote? Don't try, answer me. Why didn't you write here in the conclusions of how you'd solve a problem like this? That's why I say I'm asking, because here we have the meaning of extreme municipalities. This is similar, people here said they came from Tesla, wrestling from Tesla and Kaknja. So we need to see now what is the situation in Tesla and Kaknja to get the Croats back to Teslic and Kakanja. So we need people to complete something. Let's not play with conclusions here because we are the serious and biggest legislative institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I have as many arguments as you want, but tonight is not the time or time we take away from each other. Each one of you will give these another hundred examples. Here's an answer specifically to this question so I can see what's in the conclusion. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7037	I'd like to thank the honourable representative, sir. Wait. Maybe it'll take more. Mr. Spasojević has an honorable representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7038	Madam Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I will be very brief because it is really time-consuming, but I cannot, since I read this about the visit of the Municipality of Bijeljin, not to tell the chairman of the Osman komisija that I am unhappy that he did not invite me as a host to attend, because I am from Bijeljina, and you know well that I am from Bijeljina, and here you criticise that you have not received you, etc. Probably if I was better off they'd take you in and do it, we'd have more information. That's one thing. Second. This is where you tend to list only in the Municipality of Bijeljin you said, says 31 committee members, of which there are only four representatives of the Bošnjak. It's true that there are four Bošnjak councilmen, but we didn't conduct the election according to our rules. Elections were conducted according to international rules, and so they put it, that's right. So it's not a mistake to the Municipality of Bijeljina. You understand. But you're only here to the opštin of Bijeljina tendently listed there are only four. You didn't say that in any of the municipalities. That's one thing. Secondly, you're saying that there are 1,400 plots distributed for land that are subject to restitution. I don't think that's true and that this information is not true. Give us the data, where you got it, and how you got this information. That's one thing. Secondly, here I agree with you, and I don't think this is exactly the right percentage for the janje. Janja was inhabited by 100% Bosniak population before the war and I think that the return is now about 70% of Bošnjak returned to Janj and no one has a problem with returning. But I would like it if you were to visit the Drava to compare such municipalities as, that is, places like Janja and Drava to see what the rate of return is, what the employment ratio and the rest is, because these are the classic municipalities, the classic places that have come back. Still as the main question I would like to ask you to suggest that you bypassed after a year and a half, you bypassed the capital of Sarajevo that you did not take for a tour, and you know that close to 200,000 Srbin came out of Sarajevo. What's the situation here? Let's see what's going on in Sarajevo. I know right now, because I have a few people working with me from Sarajevo. They've got solutions from two years ago that they got their property back, but they can't get people into the property. And I think Sarajevo is the biggest problem. So I suggest you visit, that your next visit be a visit to Sarajevo, so that we have a full report that will be at the level of all Bosnia and Herzegovina. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7039	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Zoran Spasojević. I would like to remind you of one fact that two days ago, I think you received a report from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of Annex VII. I think a lot of questions about this area will be discussed then and then we will have a safe opportunity and ministers that we do not have today, to answer these questions and to make plans. Mr. Franjo Majdandžić, the esteemed representative, answered. We can't bring in a dot until you stop calling. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7040	I mean, you'd answer Mr. Tošić's questions. Here's a view of the Drvar Municipality, so it stands here as many initiated ways are initiated to resolve many issues. We can't be experts at giving recipes and giving out ready solutions. It's clear you shouldn't expect us to. And it says the future work of the municipality, strengthening the wood industry, etc. to speed up privatisation, address the problem precondition for the electrification of the village where the connection problem is, etc. So this is where it stands. And I think it's fair that we also cited this information that you state that the returner's problem is now the biggest problem of Srbin who have regained the Serbian nationality of citizens, and they have no employment, and they need to be resolved that it is fair and should have been said so. Yes, those who used to be Hrvat somehow managed to, they were more employed in the larger percentage, it's such a picture so we show it. We're doing it honestly, and I don't know what's wrong with that.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7041	I would like to thank Mr Majdandžić, the esteemed representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7042	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I would just like to thank the Commission that has had a highly morally responsible and noble job and the Commission is already making its reports with conclusions on a long-term basis. Last time, the conclusions on the alignment were not adopted and in this context the question arises as to how long this insistence may lead to and what messages this parliament has made. In this context, it means what is the useful value of these conclusions, as counterpart Amidžić has shown. That's why I'm prone to one pragmatic receipt of this question. We have before us an analysis of the Annex VII of the Dayton Agreement by the Ministry of Persecution and Displaced Persons of the Council of Ministers. And it would be good to present the Commission's views and views at such a theme session. The other thing I want to say. I am in favour of the conclusion it is not a dispute and it is no problem, but a message from this Parliament that we do not have a parliamentary majority to declare those conclusions. I am speaking to the President of the Commission and what it is worth to insist that the conclusions go to a consensus and that they do not experience their verification and that this highly noble Commission business is being destroyed in such a way. I therefore ask the President-in-Office of the Commission not to insist further, because it is simply then that it lays down the objective core objectives of the Commission itself. Which means as soon as the Commission enters political assessments in certain areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is no more peace. So we just can't agree on it. That's what this session shows for the second time. Which means I propose who prohibits the Commission, one suggestion and that suggestion can solve the problem. Who prohibits the Commission and who has ever banned the Commission from calling entity ministers for exile and displaced persons and to present their findings to them? Who forbids the Commission to call the Minister for Exorcised and Displaced Persons of the Council of Ministers? Who prohibits the Commission from calling other authorities and talking to them and presenting its reports to them? Isn't that really in the work of the Commission and who ever banned it? I am for a creative direct creation of the Commission. Insisting on conclusions that will not win the parliamentary majority does not make any sense and it is quite clear 72 messages from the last time and teaching that in such a way is not a simple task, i.e. not to destroy the Commission's simple overall report. Therefore, I would like to ask, to re-affirm my colleague Amidžić's proposal, to adopt the report and offer full conclusions, to repeat the full conclusions at the next Annex VII meeting of the Dayton Peace Agreement. Each other is contrary to the Commission's mission and objectives. Trust me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7043	I would like to thank Mr. Avdić's distinguished representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7044	I respect your opinion and your position, Mr Avdić, but indeed this time the Commission has gone so together that we unanimously adopted the conclusions and there is a Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Jovanović Miloš, who had no objection to any conclusion. Even two conclusions, the last one he suggested, dictated them, and we adopted them. That 11 and 12 conclusion. So I really didn't think there'd be any problem with the vote this time. I believe that if the Commission does something and everyone admits that it does it well, it does it in quality that there is no need for any of us to now ask that we have a magic wand to solve problems in Bosnia. God forbid we do, we don't. We don't have anyone. But if we point out something that can be done better and solved, I can't believe it, I really can't believe someone can raise their hand against it. And to the honourable Messenger of Bijeljina who says we didn't invite him, I'm really sorry. I said last time you weren't in Bijeljina. I haven't persated you, and now I'm not, because this is how we talk all the time. You were gone, you were gone. He says he didn't know. And I thought the hosts in Bijeljina would normally invite him to come with us. Unfortunately, that's not where they did it. It's not his fault, but it's not my fault it wasn't him either. I am really asking you on behalf of the Commission to be Parliament's position, and even when it is not voted, so let the public know that this cannot be voted on either, and I am asking the media, asking that 12 conclusions adopted unanimously on the Commission be published and that you say that such conclusions cannot be adopted in Parliament. What are we hiding from the people? Let the people know that they cannot be adopted unanimously on the Commission either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7045	I would like to thank Mr. Brk's esteemed representative. The word has been respected by Mr Miloš Jovanović. There may be another conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7046	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I am aware of the fact that it is the easiest thing to criticise. I want to tell you that yesterday we had one conclusion on the Commission and specifically means one of the conclusions was necessary to bring national representation into line in the executive and judicial authorities as well as the media on the basis of the 91st-year census. I asked for that conclusion not to happen and the Commission agreed. So that's one thing. The other thing is that, in a related conclusion, I don't know what number 10 is said to allow citizens on one side of Drina to cross over to process their own country, I asked that it be the same thing on the other side as the Commission has also accepted. I further asked 73 to recommend to the Council of Ministers that in agreement with the Government of the Republic of Croatia speed up negotiations on the return of Srbin, we had in particular to mention this mention to Gradiška and Banja Luka. It means the return of Srbin to Croatia. I think that conclusion has also been adopted. The other thing we were talking about, I think it's also among the conclusions that more clearly on either side means there's no obstruction. That we have a problem, what's the problem, and what's the point. The bottom line is the lack of alternative accommodation, the problem of employment and the problem of lack of material resources to fix people's homes, that they can come back and all that to say is in these conclusions you get on the tables. Therefore, I agreed with the Commission, voted on the Commission, and I will support those conclusions at home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7047	I thank the honourable representative, Mr Miloš Jovanović. I'm closing the debate. Obviously, the Commission here considers that these conclusions should be made clear regardless of how we are left with these activities and expect at the next session to discuss the report on the implementation of Annex VII. I think we'll be able to do a lot of work then. Who's up for conclusions? Report and conclusions normal. Everything. Thank you. Who's against it? - I don't mind. The abstentions? - Thank you. Let's move on. 31 votes, 21 for, abstention 9, calling means by entities. Who's from Republika Srpska for? - Thank you. From the Federation who's in favour? - 19 from the Federation for, from Republika Srpska 2, 3, is a compliance. So we haven't adopted these conclusions in entity. Coming through, actually I suggest we go back to the 14th point since our mistake was. We haven't invited the proper representatives of the review, and here I am putting an end to the agenda. Ad. 14. Whether a representative of the Audit Office needs to dà. There's no need. I'm opening a debate. Do the honourable MPs want to discuss it? Here's a word for Mr. Kovačević.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7048	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, representatives of the Audit Office have two deputies, I am sorry that the point on the National Bank has been taken off, I was prepared to discuss although I was in favour of adopting the National Bank report. If it's a principle. Yesterday's report was on the Commission for Finance and Budget with small remarks from Bora Bjelobrka, the Commission's report on Budget and Finance has accepted and we propose to the House of Representatives to accept the same report. Just the same, I said yesterday that they are correcting their work to equip and support them, but in order for this Parliament and themselves to have 74 feedback on what is being taken from these reports of the Office for Audit and the conclusions of this Parliament. What has been taken over by the prosecution in both the Federation and Republika Srpska, where the ministers concerned, the ministry, have been affected by irregularities. Let's go from New York to Vienna, from individual ministries, individual lawsuits, etc. We don't have any feedback here. I think the Audit Office should keep working, but if there's no feedback, no responsibility, no action is taken, then that work is in vain. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7049	I thank the honourable representative, Mr Kovačević. Is anyone else answering? If he doesn't call, I'll close the debate. I propose that we accept a report on the business of the Financial Business Audit Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions for 2001. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? - There isn't. - No abstentions? 24 votes, 24 votes. So the adopted report. Thank you. We're going to the 16th point of the agenda. Ad. 16. A resolution on health policy for all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina Proposer, a respected representative of Mr. Sead Buturović. A brief explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7050	Gentlemen of the delegates, respectfully, here is one member of the College, gentlemen of the press, and I will explain the reasons for the resolution you all have on your desks, I hope you've read it. The health care of each country is made up of two subsystems. The country's first economic educational and wider social basis with defined and adopted health policy towards international norms and standards for all general public health. Secondly, the health sector in the narrow sense of health care with staff institutions and other resources needed to organise and provide quality health services to citizens. In many countries, these two global health subsystems are co-ordinated by central, state, representative bodies and central administrations vertically to local administrations. We know that the Dayton Constitution has been decentralised and transferred to entities and cantons, the county authorities including Brcko District. Thus, the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. its institutions, did not release responsibility for the health of its citizens, which significantly exceeds the competences of the health sector. The state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. its institutions with the executive authorities, cannot release 75 of their international and state obligations in health care and in the wider health care of their citizens. Unfortunately, on our occasion, I almost could. In the past seven years, with little exception in parliamentary debates, we rarely looked back on general health opportunities, not the opportunities of our population that multiplied geometric progression. A large number of international obligations and very concrete documents have been neglected and ignored, and internal common issues such as economic poverty, mass migration of the population, environmental incidents, after the war-specific and infectious diseases of our citizens, the permeability of the border, trafficking in human beings, drugs, and illicit funds are rarely unprepared for superficial discussions in these benches. Bosnia and Herzegovina's international membership, primarily by the UN and the World Health Organization, is obliged to establish a global health policy for all its citizens under equal conditions. Health policy for all in the 21st century was adopted by the World Health Organization Assembly in Geneva and its European office in Kopen Hagen in 1998. The document obliges all European communities to realise a vision of health for all in the first two decades. The content of this political vision on the health of the people has been defined by the World Conference on Primary Health Protection in Alma Ata since 1978 and contains 5.10 priority goals. And these are: reducing the health differences between the countries of the European region; reducing the differences in the health of peoples within individual countries; establishing minimum solidarity and reciprocity for the health of people within a country; eliminating poverty and strengthening the economic and educational power of the country with improvement in health; strengthening healthy lifestyles and health throughout the lifetime; improving the health environment; improving the food of the people; providing the population with health services and medicines and ensuring a healthy reproduction of the population. In an attempt to assess the safety of our citizens' health in Bosnia and Herzegovina and their health standards today are almost impossible. Currently, there is no information on Bosnia and Herzegovina in any comparative report by the World Health Organisation on the health of the peoples of European countries. According to the assessment of the Institute for Health Protection of Bosnia and Herzegovina in health and health care standards, we are 41 places out of 51 countries, and in 1991 we were in 26 places. According to the same source today in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have 50% jobless and live in total poverty; 49% of citizens who do not have basic rights to health services, i.e. right to life and health; 50% of citizens do not have controlled and correct drinking water; 18% of citizens are without electricity, mainly returnees and displaced persons; 25% of citizens are exposed to explosive devices and radioactive and similar dangers; 35% of citizens are in a state of refugee or return in search of rights to their property. Infectious diseases in Bosnia and Herzegovina are not being monitored in BiH's population, including the permanent presence of 100,000 foreigners except for SFOR, that no state institution has information that those in the country and those introduced through foreign contingents of the military, police or staff of international organisations. This parliament and the central authorities are obliged by this state to form a health care policy for all citizens equally. In addition to other international documents, we are bound by the Universal International Declaration of Human Rights, the World Health Declaration 1998 on the obligations of each country to improve citizens' health. Declaration of the UN World Summit 1995 on the mitigation of social differences between nations faced with economic crises and disasters, recommendations from the Stability Pact on strengthening social cohesion and international co-operation to improve the health of the peoples of the Southeast European countries, etc. 76 Gentlemen, the delegates from the aforementioned international documents and obligations that BiH has in the field of protection and improvement of the health of our peoples produce three priority general ethical and human values that need to be defined. And that is the right of all citizens to life and health as a basis for human rights, equality in the health of all citizens, solidarity and responsibility of the state towards the health of citizens. Realising citizens' rights to health and health protection and improving living conditions throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina is the primary task of the Bosnia and Herzegovina authorities. This function is regulated for those aspects of health and those areas of activity in the protection and improvement of health for which according to constructive and other official acts and documents of the UN and specialised UN agencies coordinating the activities of Member States, their governments in the field of health and health protection, including environmental protection. These are primarily the World Health Organization, UNICEF, the International Labour Organisation, the International Organisation for Energy and others, the responsible member state as a whole. This responsibility and obligations towards the international community cannot be delegated to the lower authorities in both territorial and economic terms. This clearly stems from all international acts dealing with these issues. In order to meet the number of international obligations of our country arising from those acts, it is necessary to regulate such a social system as well as a health policy compatible with other Member States of organisations and associations in the field of health, and in particular with the members of the Southeast European countries. In addition to these obligations, the transition process of particularly reintegration of the country and the normalisation of total income, the construction and regulation of joint institutions, the construction of the rule of law, economic recovery imposes the need for rationalisation and more efficient engagement of global organisations and associations in our country. First of all, we are thinking about the World Bank, the Bank for Reconstruction and Development and various FAR programmes, UNICEF, UNHCR etc. which should be coordinated more than ever by the central state authority where it will bear all obligations to return those funds invested in this country. The strategy that needs to be changed to achieve policy and applied to ageing health policy for all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, primarily concerns integrated primary health care directed towards family and community and the development of hospital health care with an emphasis on highly differentiated and territorial health care, is referred to clinics, universities, institutes, and research institutes. Unbound space in every respect, different interests, disolution and capacity duplication are certainly a huge material burden for countries with a much more developed economy than ours. Rational capacity planning, material technical resources, and state-level personnel are far more justified and economically profitable. This will lead to a rise in the quality of healthcare in every respect which will also allow for inclusion in all global and European integration processes. A significant place in the strategy also takes place in the manufacturing sector and in the transport of medicinal products and sanitary materials. It is certain that there is no state in the world that does not own its own pharmaceutical industry that is an essential element of sustainability and national sovereignty. A country behind the planning and development of clinical institutions and educational and scientific and research institutions allows all its citizens throughout the area, regardless of religious and national membership, equal access to the use of very expensive health services, the same possibility of education and other types of education, which makes it an essential guarantee of the security of human rights, the right to education and health care. The implementation of this strategy requires continued and professional collection of relevant data by international standards of interest for health in the territory of 77 countries as a whole. In this respect, it is also necessary to look at the health systems of the countries of the European region in a comparative manner both due to international reporting obligations of international organisations, from which comparative differences would be established, and because of the need to make political decisions at different levels from entity institutions of government to local self-government. In addition, it is important to set priorities for additional sources of healthcare funding, as well as scientific research work of interest for health and health care for all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. For implementation, here, I am finishing, please, it is also necessary to build a partnership for co-operation with regional institutions in the country in order to fulfil the obligations of state institutions, to form a clear division of responsibility for health and the population between states, entities, districts, cantons and municipalities. Raising and implementing such forms of organisation that will guarantee the health security of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina at all levels, starting with the place of residence, learning, work, and to fulfil the international obligations that Bosnia and Herzegovina has undertaken in front of the international community. In order to implement health policy in order to realise and commit BiH and membership in the international health association Evopre and the Council, it is necessary to ensure co-operation between the institutions and the health system and the Ministry of Health formed at the Council of Ministers. In this situation, a weak state with a decentralised health sector system in the interest of better coordination and activity, it is necessary to explicitly define the responsibility of the state, the network of state institutions in their work. Understandably, it is not possible to realise significant priorities from the European health policy for all unless an institutional framework is justified at the level of the state. Another significant group of priorities of our health policy are concrete objectives whose realisation can be ensured through the action of state institutions. A planic approach to sharing responsibilities for health in Bosnia and Herzegovina will prevent unnecessary duplication of tasks as well as unnecessary parallel costs of these activities. The institutional framework at the state level should be the Ministry of Health. In this context, it is necessary to amend the Council of Ministers' law more urgently and to bring about a new one that provides for the establishment of new ministries and redefine the functions of existing all with the cost of the Council of Ministers being a real power, a government that rules the state. The Ministry of Health creates a health care policy, health insurance, production and transport of medicines and has the following activities – providing, monitoring and implementing health policy for all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina; mandatory statistical surveys at national level; co-operation with international organisations and statistical reporting obligations; the development of a national action plan for the environment and health; scientific research work of interest for the population of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the area of health and reproduction of the population; radiological protection and control of food quality, etc. health promotion; planning and development of therapeutic health care; clinical levels; planning and development of higher school institutions, colleges; registration of medicinal products on the market in Bosnia and Herzegovina; quality control of medicines; production of Bosnia and Herzegovina pharmacopoeia; international social insurance contracts; calculation of funds in health care, a unique information system of health insurance; statistics in the field of health insurance; creation of a health insurance policy at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and health insurance. I'm saying thank you. I'm sorry I've been a little overextended. It's too late, but I think it's worth reading. I suggest you seriously consider this resolution and adopt it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7051	I would like to thank Mr. Buturović, the honourable representative. 78 I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Branislav Lolić. Who else does? Why shouldn't anyone else?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7052	Dear colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I am very sorry that at the end of the day we are talking about such a serious matter very important to our country. I, in order to shorten the discussion, have been expedientally consulting with colleagues from the club, also with colleagues from the SDS, so I practically perform on behalf of both of these clubs from Republika Srpska. First of all, I would like to commend my colleague Buturović's initiative and he was actively involved in this. It's our colleague's Cuplov. I think it's a good thing we started talking about this. However, it is evident that this one chapter is very delicate, a similar issue of defence. We've seen today what kind of problems we've gotten into around a series of those resolutions, because the Dejton thing is completely left to the entity ministries. So now go to a resolution that's being talked about by the Institute of Health Protection of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Ministry of Health, that's something that's contrary to the Constitution, which is past Dejton and would get into a series of political problems and then these political problems would bring down a wonderful idea. I think the most important thing today is to take this resolution as an initiative. Because this is something that hasn't been solved for seven years in the way a colleague used to say it, and now to rush here to break something over our knees would be wrong. Only the creation of the health ministry will not protect anything, because we have here and now, I will start with the Republika Srpska Ministry of Health, the situation is catastrophic, because you have institutional frameworks, and you have no real people or you have no system means anything. Not much better in the Federation where you have 10 health ministers. It's clear to us that he can't have, here's a takeover of Sarajevo at 15km three clinical centres, or that the Banja Luka Clinical Center can't be bypassed by a Key or a predator hospital from the Sansko Most, because it's designed to cover that region too. We came into a strange situation that we had to places where we had a 20km hospital not used to so go 200km around. The fact is that an epidemic that goes with verbas can't be stopped by, say, jaundice by being on the entity border, the fact is that an epidemic of infection can't be stopped at one airport, it can't be stopped on one entity line. So there's absolutely a need here for the first existing health care institutions to sit down and talk. I think my current position is if it were to go to the resolution vote, I suggested it to my colleagues that we be restrained so we don't knock her down, but that means she's going to agree and she's opening a simple process. Now my appeal to my colleague Buturović would be this if we weren't practically pleading, to accept this resolution today as one idea, and perhaps from it the only conclusion that would be supportive if one group meant College and one group, here we are doctors from this representative home, since this issue requires much better cooperation on entities. Today we listened to what happened to the refugees, how much trouble it is, that the health funds still don't cooperate properly, that I'm not talking about the possibility of treatment from Banja Luka in Sarajevo and vice versa. Let's have one meeting with the entity ministries, with the cantonal ministries, with all the institutions, and then we can all try to have a debate together. We know that according to Dayton, the entity can transfer some of its powers to state level. Normally we need to discuss it in the entity assembly. We know how much our problem is membership in international organisations and now it's time for the societies of Dr. Medical Federation and Republika Srpska to create a roof association that is working somewhere. It's a good thing we started, but just don't jump-start 79 to make the wrong moves and then ruin one good idea, and one great need for our people of all citizens is practically unsatisfactory. So here's my appeal for today to accept it as an idea like we don't say anything about it without organising a satanic like this. We should be initiators, and then this will certainly give the right results, and eventually lead to some solutions to institutional ones. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7053	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Lolić. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Šarganović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7054	I think that fellow Buturović has put a great deal of effort into this resolution and that it is indeed commendable and should be headed in this direction. But I personally think that there is a need to approach the health system reform in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that it is the key and that it is one of the conclusions that should be made to reform the health care system with what counterpart Buturović has proposed, because for Southeast Europe we have models that have been adopted in the health system reform and we know that what model has been accepted from neighbouring countries and in this direction parallel to the reforms. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7055	I thank the honourable representative Mr. Šarganović. Here we had discussions here, suggestions. The word has a proposal, Mr. Butorović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7056	I've been too busy, but I'm not gonna be boring, I hope. I think this is a very serious question and I was really over-expanded, but I tried to get into the details of the problem and to introduce you as MPs to the delegates. I completely understand my colleague Lolić, we understand each other very well. And I believe there are problems the same, similar, nothing better than what we have in the Federation. The health problems are huge. They've been piling up for six years, and there's no outside help because we don't have one phone to say. The exclusive guarantee of human rights, including the right to health care, is one of the fundamental rights of the state. It's according to the international declaration on the protection of human rights adopted long ago, I repeat again in 48th in the UN. So the state, it can transfer part of that right to the entity. In that sense, there is no problem. Why am I saying this? Because we're missing our help, we're missing our programs, we're running out of money, we're running out of help, we're wasting ourselves, and it's no use, we're just falling deeper. We're only coming into crisis. I'll take everything. I'm very glad that I'm interested in all of you that on this problem, I don't need conclusions that we won't implement to understand each other. I'm all for it, but if this resolution is where we start thinking about us all meeting, to talk about it pulling us into conversations to come up with a solution that will be good for everyone, first to our citizens, our people, our refugees. Here we talk about problems all the time, the problem of health care. That's one big refugee problem. ...we talked about him. 80 I'll be a colleague of Loliću. I don't need a conclusion, that I'm boasting the adopted conclusion, passed, failed, let's do something, to run activity and action. We also have a colleague in the House of Peoples. Let's sit down, the doctors, that's what the nations expect us to do with the help of other people, the people we're going to hire to help us, to do something, to start something. You see a private health care sector and not to say all these things, supplementary insurance, compulsory insurance, etc. Some things I agree with my colleague, Šarganović. The problems are mutual trust. It has neither colour nor race, it has only either sick or healthy and how a person will improve health, improve the environment, improve food. There's no politics here. It is a universal human right and I will accept everything if we conclude that this will move us all to action in cantons, in entities, in the executive government, in Parliament to make some action, not conclusions that we will not translate into action. I'm thanking you again. I think I should have said that.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7057	I would like to thank Mr. Buturović, the honourable representative. I'm interested in whether you're asking to vote or to accept the position that she is not voted on today, to go into procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7058	Here's to be clear, I'll agree with my colleague Lolić that Parliament accepts the knowledge, but to launch activities at all levels, doctors, experts to create programs to do something where we will win this poor health situation. ...to make one meeting with all entity and cantonal
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7059	So this is how it is. Let me get this straight. So we take the resolution to the knowledge according to the Rules of Procedure she can even now go to the commission and organise this all that Mr. Lolić has said. It means she's not dead, she's living matter. Thank you. We're moving to 18 points of the agenda. Ad. 18. The election of members and deputies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly to the Council of Europe, following the admission of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Council of Europe, is an obligation for Bosnia and Herzegovina to choose a delegation representing this parliament, to represent Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Council of Europe. Five members and five deputies are elected according to the rules. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, this work is done together with the House of Peoples, so Article 145 means that in coordination with the College of the House of Nations, the College will determine how many members must be selected from both homes. The college will seek to find a proportionate formula reflecting the overall composition of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly. So that's 42 plus 15 and finds the formula in 5 plus 5. We've been talking in this UZ college. We were in one position that our platform for talks with the House of Nations would be 4+1+3+2, so we believe that from this home there should be a formula, that from this home there would be 4 of the House of Peoples 1, and in the number of members to be 3+2. So a total of 7+3. I don't think we can, we can today since it's not. 81
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7060	(speaks from place)
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7061	I thank you in any case and the rules of the Council of Europe are for there to be a position and opposition and for the party and this structure to be half. So I suggest we go over this point now, because we have no established criteria for this question. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Amidžoć, and a distinguished representative, Mr. Neimarlija. About what, which commission, whose? We're not choosing a delegation today. So discuss freely, there's no problem, just make sure that we have to determine the criteria first.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7062	Madam Chairman, fellow MPs, I have deliberately crossed this line when adopting the agenda expecting you to go out with something concrete. The agenda is defined by gentlemen – the choice of members and alternate members, and it is not defined to set criteria and agree on how we will talk to the House of Peoples. I want to say first that what you suggested doesn't match the proposed agenda point. Number two, if you'll allow me, I support this effort of yours, if the House accepts that we are not discussing the item of the agenda that has been defined, let me at least say that we at the Foreign Affairs Commission held a debate yesterday and you have the opinion of the Commission. It's roughly in line with that opinion of yours, but I want to explain some things, that is, to say now something that I think is being represented by Marko Amidžić, because I have no right to speak here on behalf of the Commission, is that what the Commission did not conclude. But I reserve the right to say so. First, we had quite a scandal over the election of a temporary delegation to the Council of Europe. I want it to be entered as my relationship versus that in the record, or to be recorded, which is why I'm talking about it. Secondly, I want to say that we understand that this is a temporary commission, or delegation, while Bosnia and Herzegovina was a candidate for reception. At the same time, however, I would like to say that we have a letter from Mr. Gaun, which means our ambassador there informs the House that the Commission is by signing Mr. Mirjanić, and may forgive me not as my chairman of the House, but Tokić says it has been confirmed on the Council of Europe, and you should choose a deputy. I personally was happy that you put the election and members and deputies on the agenda, not writing, but also writing, but writing, members and deputies. So I want to define that question here. Is Dom determined whether the House is determined when you go to the House of Peoples with a famous upper home, that you discuss the selection of members and deputies, or deputies. Because these are not questions of a technical nature. The second calculation in the two homes, in numbers in the Ash Rules, is exactly 7:3 or 74:26% when you add up who knows four accounting stores 15 and 42 it comes to you 74 to 26% and cannot have the House of Peoples 4, he has 2.6, let him have 3 in total, whether he will have 2 members and 11 82 deputies, or vice versa, it is now a matter of political agreements of the parliamentary majority in one and the other home. But I want to point to those things. Second in the composition of the delegation, temporary business provisions are not respected to determine the composition of the delegation in proportion to the size of Parliament's clubs. And consciously the paints were then excluded from that delegation. That's a fact. Please, it's a fact. I want it to be emphasized now as a political commitment is ours to compensate. Whether it is in the membership of members or deputies again is another question, but let it be compensated, for why gentlemen, please, it is not a matter of representing the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Council of Europe is organized by political parties clubs and you come as a member or deputy, and the deputy has the right to attend every assembly session, it is important to define, that there is no tomorrow when the delegation goes to the member, no deputy can. No, every deputy has the right to attend, because she has to work at a club of her own political options. He has the right to promote his political option among related parties in Europe. We are parliamentary democracy. Why keep some political options in the isolation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in politics, etc.? I think these are important issues to understand the criteria of European democracy. And in the end, I ask you, are we going to have a chance to propose members or deputies? If anyone's gonna say that to the College or to another, let me make my proposal. I suggest that for both a member and a deputy, you understand why, because they will have to agree with the House of Nations, that is, that place belonging to Mr. mir Grabovac Titan. By criteria and national composition and number of clubs etc. That place belongs to one of us. Here I suggest he thinks about it and I support your endeavor, but here's to strengthen you a little bit with our attitude. Let the public know that. And I'm not afraid of whether a delegation will be elected, I don't care if it's for one session, three or five. It is an act that currently seems, and if we want you to be more than one session, prepare it for session 29, and we will vote that delegation 29. So it's not up to us to the House, it's up to those who consult, and they'd see themselves here anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7063	I thank the honourable representative, Mr Amidžić. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija. But mostly now there's no proposal, so you know.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7064	Members of the Parliament, gentlemen of the presidency, I have realized that we are adopting this item of the agenda on the note we have heard from here today to set ourselves up according to the criteria for the selection of members and alternate members for the delegation of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Council of Europe. And I thought the appropriate commission had given us a proposal that we'd come forward with. On my part, I believe, if we do not propose today to the members that we are obliged to declare the Commission's position appropriate for the establishment of a delegation. To the arguments that my colleague Amidžić presented, I would just add, indeed, that it is necessary to visit that we are now full members and that in that part, I believe all those political games about political delegation of people to the Council of Europe have been completed, that instead the time has come for this Parliament to delegate, first of all, to the BiH Parliament's delegation to the Council of Europe. Personally, the strain cannot express its dissatisfaction that in the performances of the chairman, mostly our delegation at the Council of Europe, there is more talk about the political options presented in the Council of Europe than the state of BiH and the country and Parliament's option, and, please, I would not repeat these arguments because I know that we are all quite 83 tired, which Amidžić said. I would add this is one of the reasons, for a whole series of reasons that belong to other areas of my kind of misunderstandings, I would say with the role and mission politically legislative each of the homes and the simple fact that for political reasons, but also the reasons of another nature, it happened to us that this home, mildly said, was played, when it was made, or when the constitutional position of the delegation was chosen and it happened to us among other things, that the House of Peoples is appearing on this ground as a representative home for representing the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, in all respect we also know the constitutional position of homes, we know the situation with parliamentary parliaments two-timed in Europe, but please, I am now speaking as a representative of the House of Representatives in the BiH Assembly, I cannot accept and especially in this situation when we are fighting to train the values of the plural democracy, that first and first of all, I am talking to us in the delegations to have a part of the Members of BiH who need of BiH. And on this side we are obliged to plead, on this side I support the Commission's finding or proposal from my colleague Amidžić and I ask you to draw a line with the political one, so to speak to the primate in selecting a delegation at the expense of the state and Bosnian Herzegovina's representation of this assembly in the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7065	I would like to thank Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija, the esteemed representative. The word has been given to Mr. Bilbija's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7066	Since Mr. Amidžić called Mr. Mirjanić and he is not there at the moment, I have information that the chairman at the time, Mr. Mirjanić, signed that it was a permanent delegation for the meeting, because the delegation was temporary at the time that BiH was accepted at all expectations and he signed that it was just a permanent delegation for the meeting, because it was impossible to choose now, change because the session continued. So this is just for that information, because Mr Amidžić's husband didn't have good information or he misread it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7067	Thank you, Mr. Bilbija, for your esteemed representative. I will first, too I was going to say and I was also present when the Honorable Chairman then Mr Mirjanić signed for the April session and it was said so, and if a letter was written that it was a delegation that remains until the election. To the intervention that one chairman cannot say it himself is our delegation, we said, we can, since that session is under way, that it is a delegation for that session and that is why we have put this point here. We expected that we would already establish the terrain along with the House of Nations and that we would be able to choose today. It is certainly understood that the parties' clubs will run, propose the persons who will go to this delegation in any capacity. The word has been given to the honourable representative, Mr Amidžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7068	My colleagues, first of all I tried in the introduction and I was obliged to separate what the Commission's foreign affairs opinion is, I emphasized that from what my discussion is at this point as a representative and my opinion is in that composition of the Commission. I see there are no 84 replicas, I probably did it. In mentioning I am obliged, meaning, to supplement my discussion at this point to Mr. Bilbija's intervention, and in this sense: 1. When I supported the College to define that it was going to the selection and commission and members, I meant that Mr Mirjanić, too, agreed on whether, in formulating the agenda, he made his contribution to this solution and mentioning the specific name of the previous chairman of the dom was related in the context of Mr Gaon's letter and not my claims and in the basis of that letter, which we understood, and I understand, too, that it was working for that session and it was by no means intention nor intention to manipulate himself now by the position of the former presidents that he had used something, God save it. I think his signature is correct and I understand him as a correct signature. So let's get this straight. I may not have been able to do it for a short time, but the fact is that in the letter of Mr. Ambassador, there is a basis for that, the one who sent him home. And in the end, let's not have political scandals and diplomatic ones. The Ambassador writes clearly that it has been verified and that only deputies should be chosen. If that's the case, then where's home position? Where's home position? That's why I'm talking about it. Where's the position of the House? Therefore, I apologize to Mr Mirjanić, if my discussion prompted his name in a negative sense, God forbid I think he was, I don't think you were the deputy there so Željko intervened on the replication of it. I'm sorry, you're a little caught up. So he'll explain to you the likely Željko. So Željko replicated in that sense that I mentioned you, I did mention you but in a meaningful conclusion you signed with Tokić, but not in terms of this delegation to the Council of Europe, not in terms of being negatively marked, but in terms of incomplete information. I think, if you want to answer, and I don't think there's a need, because I think you did the right thing, but someone else tried to abuse that letter. If I'm not specific, or correct, take a look at that letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7069	I thank the honourable representative, Mr Amidžić. Rijeka has a respected deputy chairman, Mr Mirjanić, as he has been mentioned several times.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7070	I don't know if I'm going to do anything again, but I don't think there's any dilemma, I'm asking you to follow. It's not a replica. Of course, it's not correct to call someone out if they're not here and I don't think it's a replica, but I'll say how things are, that's a fact. As you know, this house has adopted a conclusion, i.e. a decision to elect a delegation after BiH's entry into the Council of Europe. We are from our members from our home, who are members of the BiH delegation at the Council of Europe informed that a new delegation should be selected after BiH's entry into the Council of Europe. That old delegation had observer status. A new delegation, is a delegation that has full membership. These are completely two different things and Dom made such a decision. I, gentlemen of the House of Speakers, have signed a letter saying that the old delegation is only for the previous session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. That says it directly from 22 to 26. What could be the misunderstanding? On 24 April, BiH was admitted to the Council of Europe. On that day, those people who represented us there could no longer participate in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Therefore, the need for these people to participate in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe from 22 April to 26 April has proved. Unfortunately, I have to inform you that I am there and the two members of the College are Mr. Ljubić's chairman and Mr. Avdić, 85 of the chairman, received a paper from our service saying that the delegation in the old assembly was invited to sign to continue the work at that session and it was written by October 5th. I saw it. I saw it was a mistake. I'm not saying someone did it on purpose. I guess that's a random mistake. I immediately warned and said I wouldn't sign it. I immediately warned Mr Avdić and Mr Ljubić publicly about this, who confirmed my position that this could not be signed, because there is a decision of the House. I said, I have a decision at home, and I'm not signing anything past home. There were members of the presidency, chairing the Council of Ministers, foreign minister. Unfortunately, such a scene took place ahead of BiH's top leadership. I guess it's a misunderstanding. Therefore, as the chairman of the House of Representatives, I did not sign the mandate for that old delegation to be extended until October 5th. I think Mr. Gaon misunderstood things too, and I repeat, I never signed what wasn't the House's decision nor would my dignity allow it. If someone thinks that they can sorely disrespect this home, it's his, but it's a much bigger problem, because, if he doesn't respect this house, he doesn't respect this state, no matter what name he was to which people he belonged and from which entity he was. I would never allow myself such a mistake, such a fall of dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7071	I thank the esteemed Deputy Chairman-in-Office, Mr Mirjanić. So here we have the Commission's position. I also interpreted the position of the College, according to the Rules of Procedure, we should sit with the College of the House of Peoples, hopefully agree to the criteria and then come to the presidents of the clubs and the House of Representatives and determine the delegation, because our obligation is somewhere on the 20th or which 21st and 22nd is the new session we must have until then a delegation. It would be inconclusive, very inconclusive only when we were admitted to not having a delegation. So, it's an obligation that's often, the last week of the sixth month is, so I'm saying, we've run as much as possible. I propose, we also have the Commission's conclusion and we have this position to take care of it in the talks. Thank you. We're moving on to 18. Ad.18. Giving consent to ratifying a) a contract between BiH and the SRJ on customs co-operation and mutual assistance may not be left unspecified.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7072	The sentence, the relevant question, is that you take care of a situation where the House of Peoples and the College would not accept the choice of delegation, the question. Does the existing delegation then continue to function or not, under the formal situation? I mean, do we formally have a delegation or not? Don't answer me, clearly, but you can take care of it when you talk, because it's important that the House knows that there is no delegation and that it should be chosen. Look, all sorts of things in the papers, because if the ambassador writes, writes, a confirmed delegation, choose deputies, then they reserve the right to, if we fail to agree by the 10th month, that's how it's gonna stay that way. If I don't mind, I'm just saying it's not clean. Not on our side, not on the side of the delegation, but I don't know from whose side, but it's not clean. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7073	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Marko Amidžić. Certainly this is a very serious question and I thank you for this intervention but I think it is unserious of us as Parliament of any home we who have fought so many years to enter the Council of Europe that one, however, peripheral issue cannot be completed within a month. Rijeka has a respected representative, Mr Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7074	I'm just asking for another intervention. It is a clear position of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We had three letters from the Council of Europe. If you have not read, then, Bruno Havel, the Secretary of the Council of Europe warns that it is necessary for the BiH Parliament to elect five regular members and five deputy parallel delegations to the Council of Europe. The legal position is absolutely clear and it is the obligation of the Paralemtar Assembly to elect five members and five deputies as a delegation of BiH to the Council of Europe to make this simple. In this context, it is not just a decision of the Representative's House or the political will of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but of the obligation on behalf of the Council of Europe to elect a new delegation, which does not mean that members who were members of the delegation cannot be members again.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7075	I would like to thank Mr. Avdić's distinguished representative. So we've made that clear, too. We've got a month. We move to 18.a) BiH-SRJ Treaty on Customs Cooperation and Mutual Assistance Is there anyone in front of the Commission? Mr. Kovačević.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7076	The President-in-Office, the Commission has considered and supported the adoption of this agreement unanimously as well as the agreement with the Republic of Croatia. Those are general principles. There are no concrete things. I suggest you take it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7077	I thank the honourable representative, Mr Kovačević. Rijeka has a distinguished representative, Mr. Zdenko Vukić. Anyone else want a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7078	My colleagues and colleagues, if you'll allow me, this lady who runs the Commission, I haven't written anything in this section and asked to read it. I find it necessary here to read it. He says about finances and the budget did not give an opinion on a contract between BiH and the SRJ on customs cooperation and mutual assistance, because, in accordance with the Commission's conclusions and the Commission's principled position, he does not consider acts for which he is not present on the Commission as a minister or his deputy and otherwise there is no doubt that this would be accepted. But, then, it wasn't considered. I have to read this. I was asked to read this. Mrs. Zaćiragić wrote her handwriting. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7079	I thank the esteemed representative Zdenko Vukić. So this is a warning, but I think we can find out if we find out that the Commission hasn't discussed it, it doesn't stop us if we decide to adopt it. Are you picking up? Dear representative Mr Gligorić has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7080	(speaks from place and no exposure can be heard)
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7081	I would like to thank Mr Gligorić, the honourable representative. I'm closing the debate. If he doesn't. No problem. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7082	...we respect ourselves, here's to these three agreements, we can treat them both one way or another, they're interstate agreements, very important and I think that you'd be honest with yourself that we should simply take them off because there are no representatives, editors, and there are, and then I didn't see you show up now. I'm sorry. Let an explanation be requested from the Proposer.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7083	I would like to thank Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija, the esteemed representative. (a) I am asking the representative of the Council of Ministers to. So we have the Commission's position, we have a proposing we have the possibility of a, b and c pleading for, v or abstention. I'm putting on a vote on who's on the floor. Who's up for floor a)? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. 29 votes - 29 for. So, adopted. Thank you. b) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial assistance for the establishment of a professional workforce returning to BiH Does the Council of Ministers have any needs? There isn't. Is it in front of the committees they discussed? If not, who's in? Thank you. Is he against it? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. So based on the results of the 29 vote, which voted 29 for no votes against, no abstentions, means adopted under b. 88 c) Giving consent to ratifying the development loan agreement Credit Project for the private sector between BiH – RS International Development Association. In front of the Council of Ministers, there's a need. Is there anything in front of the Commission? There isn't. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. I agree that we voted unanimously 29 votes - 29 for no votes against, without abstentions gave consent under c). I thank you for finishing the 18th point. I suggest we try to finish these three extras when we're doing this right today. We're going to the 19th agenda. You'll help me if I make a mistake. So this is about forming an ad-hoc commission, a temporary commission to conduct a parliamentary investigation into the sale of arms to Israel-Camerun or... it's about the sale of weapons. Here I am opening a splinter at that point. Whether the proposer has a proposal for what composition of the commission or to take a short break to try all of these, these two commissions. I suggest we take five minutes off. We need one commission for this point and for the next point. Here's the Honorable Amidžić's word. But here's what's best for us.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7084	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, since there will be a break, allow me to first determine these two points and third. So, I'll vote for the composition of both committees. And if anyone suggests me to the commission, I'll accept on one condition that I want to point out, and it's probably the terms of some other officials. First, it is a commission, meaning, or as the investigative committee writes there under Article 26(2) of the Rules of Procedure. This commission, or commission, must be formed, and be careful, there is written by the Commission of Investigation. It is formed in conclusion, but gentlemen, in our Rules of Procedure for all committees we have a defined task and a domain of work, the content of work. I think that ad-hoc commission must also define the content of the work. Secondly, I think we should define the time that this job applies to. Why? Maybe it was sold to Israel in ten different ways. Is that in the month that and that, in case he and he, we don't know, I'm saying maybe, let's assume he didn't, and if it's a weapons warehouse, find the causes and the responsible for the stored weapon that was discovered or go on. So, what's the time interval that the commission is supposed to take into its business. Furthermore, please, in the commission's composition, I'm sorry, we should install the presence of experts. Let's get some props in that, in this apartment, watch out, I'm not a military expert on people. Okay, well, that's something to take care of. By which procedure the commission will be working on the record. At least it must be stressed in the conclusion that it will work by the procedure under which permanent commissions work. She can't work. She needs a procedure. Way to decide. The deadline in which the commission's report is expected. Co-ordination with the BiH Presidency, the SWOR and other institutions, etc. I'm proposing, so I support what's being formed, but I don't think it's going to be anything from those commissions unless they're defined by gentlemen. I'm saying one of the secretary or service of the Age says Marko Amidžić is wrong, this is my opinion. And if I'm wrong, I reserve the right not to be in any of the techs, unless this is defined. Thank you. 89
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7085	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Marko Amidžić. I meant all of this when I called and I thought by this time all the proposings were prepared to come and expose themselves now. So wait until we think about it or give one brief break to try this or to establish these criteria for the next session. Word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Miro Grabovac Titan, but please don't say what you would like. Please be specific.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7086	I'll be specific when it comes to Mr. Chairman and Mr. MPs, I don't think we need to interrupt that we can choose the members of this committee today. Until the next session, give the commission, including professional services, to draw up a description of the Commission's work, which will also be adopted by the House of Representatives with a plan and deadlines exactly and the levels to which they can explore. So we can choose the commission today. I suggest that the commission contains six members. There could be one commission or two commissions, or two commissions to be the same people in both, and that means one. Since this section has been separated that this segment has been separated, that it is separated, I think the commission should be separated. I therefore propose to this committee, which was the first Mr. Marko Amidžić, since it is related to foreign affairs, since it is related and I propose Mr. Zdenko Vukić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7087	And what do you suggest, what number of members? I suggest that the commission be composed of representatives of several parties. I believe that all groups that have more representatives should be on this committee. Rijeka has a respected representative, Mr. Sead Avdić. He'll propose in front of the SDP.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7088	I think that this position should once again be troubled, and that means that the federal parliament and the federal defence ministry are responsible for the events surrounding the transfer of weapons to Kamerun. Which means that the Federation Parliament's House of Representatives established a parliamentary commission. Found it. And unless we want to continue to politicise this case, why it is necessary and necessary to re-establish the commission at the level of the BiH House of Representatives. Can't we really trust that commission to give us a report on this House here? Are they really not more quantifiable and significantly more responsible than the events that were present at the Ministry of Defence, unless it is politicizing or running an election campaign. I'm asking you to, just be extremely rational. I have full confidence in the Federation Parliament's House of Representatives, in that commission they founded. Yesterday, 140 MPs discussed more than 2-3 hours and sought the commission's report in this context and gave it to the BiH House of Representatives. Isn't that a really rational suggestion? Is it necessary for us to re-humans, simply spend hours and hours at the same job as another commission does, which should come to the same goal and result? I mean, I don't really have anything else to say. We're not up for it. 90
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7089	I would like to thank Mr. Avdić's distinguished representative. Word has a distinguished representative of the Brka. I'd like you to say the number that someone's proposing.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7090	Mr. President, I truly respect Mr. Avdić as the man who is in the College, as the colleague of this House. But I have to suggest to him that he forgets the time when the communists made their own decisions. Forget it, Sejo, please. Forget it. Look, we're at Parliament today, I know what I'm saying. We have today reached a conclusion in Parliament that we will form a committee. There's no more discussion about that. Mr. Sejo, learn that's the way it is. We've brought a position, that attitude is that we'll form a commission. There's no one right here right now to say that. Those times are over. And I ask this parliament to be a parliament and to stand behind its position. It's our position to form a commission. I suggest that my president, Mr. Borić, be Mr. Vilić Ramiz in front of the SDA. I agree with whoever else you suggest. I am not suggesting that I do not propose to the SDP from any other party, I suggest that it be Mr. Vilić, and I do not allow the elevation of this bill to be questioned at the same session to vote against ourselves.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7091	I thank Mr. Osman Brk. The replica has Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7092	By who knows which way MP brkati is in his famous style with his famous intonation that defussssssses him entirely. I beg you, this degree of tolitarianism that MP brkati is expressing for this speaker is close, very often close to democratic centrlaism and the past hateful communist system. I would ask MP Brk to come to his senses and simply forget that locabular. I'm begging you. Which means, once again, there is no imposing political will on any MP or any club of MPs in this house. So it's legitimate for me to ask another question. I find the unnecessarily unnecessarily formed commission, which is so warmly advocated by MP Brk, because it is in the context of a pre-election campaign of the SDA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7093	I would like to thank Mr. Avdić's distinguished representative. Rijeka has a distinguished representative, Mr. Tošić, and then the distinguished representative Mašić, gives up, then the distinguished Mr. Bilbija.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7094	I suggest we bring it to an end. We agreed to form a commission. I support it being club representatives. I propose immediately to Mr Miloš Jovanović on behalf of our SDS club. It is likely that our second club will suggest that it counts five members that because of what Mr Avdić was talking about, perhaps this commission that, a single commission, will take the opportunity to co-ordinate with the already formed commission to obtain information that is important to her, and that it exclusively focuses on this part of the weapon found in Mostar. So, with what Mr. Marko Amidžić was talking about, they're making their own plan and program. So they don't have to double their jobs if they're in coordination with the Federation's already formed commission. So we can have a full report on 91 of this. So, the board of five members of the Federation, two from Republika Srpska, clubs, can easily get to that right now in this place.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7095	I would like to thank Mr. Tošić, the honourable representative. The correcting of the incorrect allegations was reported by the esteemed representative Mr. Stanimirović and then Mr. Bilbija.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7096	I will, without intending to continue to open this discussion. I think what Mr. Tošić has now said in one part is an incorrect allegation. So we've spent a good part of the day raving about the agenda today and we've adopted that this is one of the points of the agenda. We, of course, couldn't at the adoption of the agenda but vote the conclusion before we opened that agenda. Therefore, it is not what you said, Mr Tošić, that we agreed to form the Commission, because we could not do so in the debate on the agenda. We can do that now, if there is an adequate parliamentary majority for that. If it doesn't exist then there's no commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7097	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Stanimirović. The word has been given to Mr. Bilbija's esteemed representative. I, however, think we'll have to take a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7098	I believe we're all a little tired. But I personally think that we just put an end to the agenda of forming a commission. Whether we form it or not, who's going to be in it, what the rules are going to be, we have to decide now. We talked at the club we don't have a candidate, if we form it, we don't, there's a lot of obligations and that. I, believe me, do not understand what I understand about the military, arms and trade, and I would even like to accept that as a member of this House, I am engaged in such an analysis. Therefore, our club has no candidate, and if we agree to be a commission, here I will be free to, since the SDS Club has proposed one candidate, I will propose Mr Banjac as an independent MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7099	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Cuplov.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7100	I must say that Mr. Bilbija and Mr. Stanimirović presented the naked truth. I remind you, we agreed that this is the agenda point. It goes into voting procedure, so all of the proposals of the people as members of the commission have not been decided at all whether we will have a commission and I ask you to take a five-minute break, otherwise, we will not make a whole circle out of this again as we see reports and discussions about something that we have already discussed for 3-4 hours. Come on, take a five-minute break. 92
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7101	I appreciate the suggestion. So, five minutes in the next room of party club presidents to agree on both the number and the watch and just vote when we get back. Consultations with club presidents, we have one position. [[PAUZA]] We suggest we finish today's or tonight's session. These three points should be prepared for the next meeting on 29th, so that, after the budget, they are the points that will be. As far as the Service is concerned, it will help to get as technically as possible out of this to suggest that the College is extended to determine all these conclusions and views. The positions on all these points will be established before the General College begins, so we won't, we can agree to this attitude. I think he's the best. So we agree. He has a notice in front of our refugee, immigration and asylum commission. You know, we've been discussing and talking about organising a roundtable on human rights, so the distinguished representative will one sentence just to introduce you to what time it is that you can have.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7102	I'm sorry. I will, indeed, be very brief with one sentence only to inform all fellow MPs that the roundtable on the unsupervised parliamentaryism in BiH, this is what the Committee on Human Rights of the Two-Time Parliament in the community with the OSCE, will be, I hope, very successfully organised on 8 and 9 June with ten guests from abroad and ten participants from BiH. A good number of our MPs have received calls, club presidents, colleges, etc., but this way I am informing all MPs that they are welcome to this round table and I would ask those who wish to attend to apply, to send an application for all other reasons not to explain why for security reasons, etc. So, who wants to attend, we will be pleased, but to make that application in the course of, say, tomorrow's phone call to Zijad Hasić, the secretary of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-05-23-0.u7103	Thank you. I'm closing the session. I'll see you Monday at the joint. The session's over at 9:00.
