ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7255	Dear MPs, distinguished guests, I am opening the 27th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly. In addition to the meeting, the presidents, members of the presidency, the chairmans of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the OHR, the OSCE, the EU, the Observation Mission in BiH, representatives of the BiH Embassy who expressed interest in monitoring the work of the Parliamentary Assembly, the UMBiH representative, the Central Bank representative. I find that the session has a sufficient number of representatives present, so that we can work and decide. The absence was justified by respected representatives of Mr Dragi Stanimirović and Mirko Banjac. The seat has a quorum for work and decision-making. I welcome all present representatives and guests, as well as representatives of public information funds. Gentlemen, you received a draft agenda in the invitation to the session. The proposal was agreed at a session of an extended college held 10 days ago, with two interventions today, so you received a proposal for a new agenda on the bench. It's about changes because there's one, if you're not gonna get this moment. Here's the deal. So the agenda is divided. It's about two changes. A commission report to be reached is a consensus abandoned and a point of agreement has been added which is one of the conditions for using a very favourable loan for Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'll read the agenda mostly for stenogram notes. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 25th and 26th session of the House of Representatives, 2nd. Agents' Questions and Answers, 3. Report by the Joint Commission on the conclusion of an agreement on the uniform text of the Consumer Protection Act 4. Report by the Joint Commission on the conclusion of an agreement on the uniform text of the Law on Administrative Disputes, 5. Report by the Joint Commission on the conclusion of an agreement on the uniform text of the Administrative Procedure Act, 6. Report from the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the urgent procedure of Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 27. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the Commission's Human Rights Report on Immigration and Refugees and Asylum on visits to a number of municipalities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 8. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Representative Mirko Banjac's proposal for a proposal for a law on the purpose and use of part of the assets received by Bosnia and Herzegovina under the Agreement on the matters of succession, 9. Proposal for a law on concessions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, second reading, 10. Proposal for a management law, second reading, 11. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities, Second Reading, 12. Proposed law to the holidays of Bosnia and Herzegovina, second reading, Proposer of the House of Peoples, 13. Proposal for a law on the Information and Protection Agency of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading, 14. Proposal for a law on insurance of deposits in Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading 15. A request to consider the Law on Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by emergency procedure, is Article 105. Rules of Procedure, Proposers of Honored Representatives Mr Željko Mirjanić and Željko Bilbija, 16. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Veterinary Law in Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent, urgent procedure, Article 104. 17. Bosnia and Herzegovina Central Bank's 2001 report and Bosnia and Herzegovina's financial report with 31 December 2001, 18. Information on the implementation of Annex VII of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 19. Information on the situation in the areas of immigration, asylum in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 20. Selection of members and alternate members of the Parliamentary Assembly's delegation to the Council of Europe, 21. Giving consent to ratification, (a) Agreement on the promotion and protection of investments between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, (b) Agreement on an amendment to a loan contract dated 2 November 2000 between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Bosnia and Herzegovina, (c) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on International Road Transport of Travellers and Goods, (d) Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of Germany on the Encouragement and Mutual Protection of Investments, (e) Protocol establishing and functioning of cultural centres between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Turkey, (f) Credit agreement between BiH and the OPC, the development of livestock and rural functioning, is an amendment and complemented by what you have previously received and under 22. Proposal for a conclusion for the establishment of a temporary committee to prepare an amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. That's the idea of the agenda. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Mr. Beriz Belkić is the chairman of the presidency. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7256	Dear Members, it is not usual for the Bureau to intervene in some way when it comes to determining the agenda, but believe the interest and circumstances are such that I have taken the right to participate in the agenda procedure. On behalf of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, I propose the House of Representatives next. Keeping in mind the fact that the House of Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina adopted the Law on the Information and Protection Agency of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which you today have under the 13th agenda. He has adopted it along with amendments that are acceptable to us as proposings. The interest in adopting this law is absolutely clear. The procedure takes a very long time, and I think it would be good, given that we have a new text now, I mean the text adopted on the House of Peoples that the conditions have been obtained and I suggest you make it clear that this point 13 is being considered under Rule 105 of your Rules of Procedure. So I'm talking about the text of the law adopted at the House of Peoples, but to consider it today under Rule 105 of your Rules of Procedure and thus, at least according to the interpretations of the people in charge of interpreting the Rules of Procedure, the law could be passed today. I have been informed before that there is the will of the clubs, or MPs, to do so today. I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7257	I would like to thank the chairman of the Presidency, Mr. Beriz Belkić. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Bogić Bogićević, and let the honourable representative of Mr. Brka be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7258	I would like to support Mr. Belkić's proposal, the president of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, my colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives, distinguished guests, on behalf of MPs and club chiefs, Mr. Mustafa Cupl, Momir Tošić, Osman Brk, Željke Bilbija, Bogić Bogićević. The Bureau is proposing the Law on the Information and Protection Agency of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I support the motion that this law be considered today in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its representative home in accordance with Article 105 of the urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7259	I thank the esteemed representative, Mr. Bogić Bogićević. Then I call on the services to divide that law so that we can discuss it, is it divided. It's a split. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Osman Brka. Would anyone else like to propose changes to the agenda today?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7260	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues, distinguished guests, I came out to remind all of us on today's date, today is the 20th day in the world marked as a day of refugees and I, as president of the Human Rights Commission, took the right and obligation to remind us all of this 4 and to wish as much as possible for the entire world that the suffering of refugees could be done as quickly as possible and that everyone would return to their homes as possible. And I would like this parliament today to warn all the executive authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina from the Council of Ministers, from entity governments, cantonal governments, municipal executive authorities to do everything within the limits of their capabilities and even beyond their limits to make the sufferings of the refugees shorter and to make sure that people return to their homes so that this day can be marked in this way. So it's the only way to increase our efforts to make sure that all the refugees who for various reasons had to leave their homes to return to them. I hope you understand and that this appeal will be as a proposal for the House of Representatives to support it and be a message from today's session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7261	I'd like to thank Mr. Osman Brk for his esteemed representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Begović, and let the honourable representative of Mr. Bilbija be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7262	The Honorable Presidency, esteemed colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have a practical agenda-related remark that we are spending a day in solving these problems, which is very complex and which has special significance in these conditions of our work. I don't think we should establish such a massive agenda at least during this period of our term of office. So let's define ourselves, that's my bar proposal or that we're constantly doing quality work on solving certain points of the agenda, even if we go to the next day, or if it were to be the agenda in the future shorter, and if we were to sit more often, let's say 15th day to carry out our programming goals and tasks. I suggest that the College consider this problem one more time. I'm really afraid of this improvisation. The importance is every point has its special meaning in deciding, but practice has shown that through the discussion we spend a lot of time and then after we tire out then we formally vote, which I think is improvisation. That's one of my proposals and mine as a parliamentary question and practically my initiative. Since I've already come out on parliamentary matters, if you'll allow me to propose two more questions, I'll refer to the MP. It's a matter of using the funds allocated to the toll. Who controls the spending of those funds? Is it possible to audit the spending of these funds since our roads really aren't good, that they're very bad roads, and we know that when we register a vehicle we pay a certain fee and we know that we also give a certain amount of this toll in the price of petrol. It's a means to use it. So I propose to the Council of Ministers that it be obvious on this point, that if the council is competent to carry out, it shall ensure that the expenditure of those dedicated funds is audited. 5 The third question, always the issue of the current issue, is the fate of pensioners' homes. Here we have seen the case in Mostar what is happening, so my initiative is aimed at the Council of Ministers and I suggest that the Council of Ministers consider proposing a special law on the legal and material status of pensioners' homes throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina that these homes be resolved, their status as institutions of particular social interest, because we must prevent the privatisation of such homes in view of the situation in which pensioners and other endangered persons are located. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7263	I thank the esteemed representative, Mr. Begović. I certainly think we should support the appeal that we have a little more frequent and more efficient sessions in this time. Mr. Željko Bilbija has an honourable representative, and let the honourable representative, Mr. Adem Borić, be prepared. So we're establishing the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7264	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Members of the Bureau and the Council of Ministers, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I have no proposal to amend and supplement, but I only have one technical clarification on the agenda, which is that at the 15th agenda, there are a club of MPs in which Mr. Mirjanić and I, Mr. Lolić and Mr. Stokić, were not able to sign the proposal. Therefore, only the information that we are all proposing this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7265	I'd like to thank Mr. Bilbija's esteemed representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Adem Borić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7266	Ladies and gentlemen, in front of the MEPs' Club, I would like to propose an addition to the agenda under item 12 of the proposal for a law on the holidays of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the promoter of the House of Peoples. I am getting to know this high house that MP Mr Abdurahman Malkić has proposed this law in due time, and we are not familiar with the reasons why Mr Malkić's proposal did not enter the ordinary procedure equally with the proposal that came from the House of Peoples. Therefore, I ask either an explanation or that Mr Malkić's proposal behind which the SDA MPs' Club stood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7267	I would like to thank Mr. Adem Borić, the esteemed representative. Since there are no more applications for changes and additions to the agenda, it means. And there is. Dear representative Mr Malkić. Is there anyone else? Don't make it later. So no one's answering. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7268	Madam Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, I suggest that the point under the regular number 18 bearing the name "Information on the realisation of the Annex" bear the name "Anexa Realisation Report". It seems to me that we should make commitments under our commitments to submit a report on the activities undertaken, not just knowing the purely informative nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7269	I thank the honourable representative, Mr Abdurahman Malkić. As far as this last item is concerned, the Council of Ministers has delivered under this name, and as such we have proposed, because we cannot change their position and we can hardly change the Council of Ministers. Okay. We'll approach the agenda. Here, as far as I've seen, there are several changes and additions. On behalf of several clubs and MPs, Mr. Bogić Bogićević suggested that point 13. The law on the Information and Protection Agency of Bosnia and Herzegovina is under consideration under Article 105 means without addition. You've got that law now I think everybody. It is a law that we have discussed, which was adopted in the House of Peoples, which is also treated in our home, but consider this a new proposal to be considered in accordance with Article 105. Is there a need for someone to take a word on this question? There isn't. We'll wait a minute for all of us to win. Most of the time, I think the club presidents, as I understand it, were all to consider and adopt in accordance with Article 105. Who's to be considered by Article 105? Thank you. Who's against it? - No abstentions? Of 38 who voted 38 for it. So we have adopted that this law is being considered in accordance with Article 105. Thank you. Takože was also another, distinguished representative of Mr. Brka, he wasn't, he was just looking for one appeal. Of course, we thank you for expressing an appeal on behalf of this house. Under item 12, the distinguished representative Mr. Adem Borić asked for either the item on the agenda of the holiday law proposed by the distinguished representative Mr. Malkić or to get an explanation. I know that law is in the process. The procedure also includes another holiday law proposed by a group of MPs. Among other things, I'm here. Here, let me read the Commission's point of view. With regard to your memo number and that of 25.4.2002, I would like to inform you that at the 23rd session, 23.4. In 2002, after a brief discussion, the members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission unanimously decided to postpone the debate on the Proposal of the Law on Holidays and Unworked Days in Bosnia and Herzegovina, MPs Mariofil Ljubić and others and on the Proposal for a Law on State Holidays in Bosnia and Herzegovina, legislators Abduraham Malkić and Sead Buturović, as they are in the 7th sub-legislative phase, as there is a law that regulates the same area, the promoter of the House of Peoples. And depending on the fate of the bill, which is in the plenary phase, it depends on whether and when the proposals are discussed. In view of the obligation to respect the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, the Commission was unable to hold a hearing on all three proposals at the same time. Here's what he has in front of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, so here I call upon the honourable representative of Mr. Borić to take the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7270	Of course, I wouldn't trouble the Constitutional Commission's decision, but at least I don't understand their decision, not one way to treat a proposal from the MPs of this house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7271	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Borić. We can only ask, we can not, we will ask the Constitutional Commission of all other committees all the laws and initiatives that have come, whether there is more or not to implement the procedure, and then let them go to the agenda. If one is adopted, normally the other will not be adopted. Here's a word for Mr. Malkić's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7272	Dear gentlemen, if you remember correctly at one of the sessions of our home, we have said that the proposed laws will go together in the procedure and will be treated, because they have once removed this law at the previous session to come together into the procedure and to discuss them together and to reach a compromise, that is, a common solution. I think that was the deal. We're twisting it now and we're saying something else that wasn't the subject of an agreement at home or the Constitutional Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7273	I thank the honourable representative, Mr Abdurahman Malkić. Here's a little bit, Doctor, I think that the law that I signed among other things, Mr Grabovac, I think, Vulić, Amidžić, some others, might be better than that of this law we're treating today, but we thought it might be possible, with amendments, to reach one compromise. I will certainly also propose as a representative one conclusion that I ask all committees to carry out the procedure, whether there are more laws under the same name, and that we simply give equal treatment to all legislators as authorised legislators, and I will ask when this is done, when we have completed this procedure to make a statement about such a conclusion that we have the support of the House. 8 The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Sead Buturović. If you have any other suggestions on this, we'll put it on discussion and decision-making.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7274	Dear members of the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, gentlemen of the presidency, colleagues, international representatives here, the means of information, I think that this, that this is indeed an example of how fundamental human rights are shortened, the fundamental rights of democracy, that we do not have the same treatment for the motions of delegates, so look at this. Come on, gentlemen, listen to this. We want to go to Europe. I want this published. It's a reduction of basic human rights that we have no right to propose one law. So let him say no. It's democratic. If it's no good, he'll say no, but vote. We are deprived of the right to make our views public and loud and to make it known to our colleagues and colleagues here. If it's not right, back it up, man. Please, this really doesn't lead to anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7275	I would like to thank Mr. Buturović, the honourable representative. I read you a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission that didn't complete the procedure. And I could also say I filed a request a year ago to amend the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and my initiative has not yet been treated. So I didn't ask that question. I propose that we ask all the committees of this House to take all the initiatives, all the proposals of the law from the authorised proposings, no matter how many of them are in the procedure to treat them equally and to pass that legislative procedure so that they can come to this agenda within the time limits of the next session. Who's in? - Thank you. Do you mind? - No abstentions? So we've adopted the conclusion. All commission presidents will receive a written request means that all initiatives are being reviewed and that there is simply no confusion that someone prefers this or that proposal. I think all initiatives here are legitimate. Is there any other need to discuss the agenda after what we adopted? What's your suggestion? And the information, I said this is the name of the material that we got from the Council of Ministers and we can't change theirs. I think you men will be able to solve that question when it comes to the agenda. I suggest we make a full statement on this. I call on the Council of Ministers' representative to answer this question. It is point 18, the distinguished representative Mr Abdurahman Malkić believes that this information should bear the title – Report or Report on the Implementation of Annex VII of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 9 Thanks to the Council of Ministers, it is correct enough that this item of the agenda is entitled Information on the Implementation of the Annex VII of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the honourable representative will be able to make that observation when the agenda comes. All right, I'll see you in the morning.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7276	Gentlemen, we must choose as Parliament whether we are asking as Parliament a report or information. Please, I think that's what we need to say, not to be told by whoever we need to report or information. We should say whether we're satisfied with the report or we're satisfied with the information, not that whoever we need is going to file a report and condition how it's going to be. I want Parliament to say what he's looking for. Is he looking for a report or asking for information? I think we should look for a report, and I'll discuss it when it's up to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7277	I'd like to thank Mr. Osman Brk for his esteemed representative. But if we're looking for it now, then that can't be the point of the agenda today, we can ask them for the next session of the report. They delivered the material with the name of the information. No problem, we've solved it. I suggest we make a statement on the agenda as a whole. Who's in? Thank you. Would you mind? - nemati suzdržati? - two out of 39 who voted 37 for, two abstentions. I realize we've adopted the agenda. There's no need to read it. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 25th and 26th session of the House of Representatives you received the minutes. Does anyone have any objections to the motion to amend these minutes? The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Salih Kulenović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7278	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all. I essentially accept the minutes of the 26th session, but I would ask that this report be complemented by my discussion when I spoke about the BiH institutions' draft budget. Here's why. It would be good to include in this report discussions of other debates, given that different discussions and different approaches could then be heard in the issue of this very important issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7279	I would like to thank Mr. Salih Kulenović, the esteemed representative. This change will be made. 10 Anyone else have any objections? There isn't. I agree to vote to adopt these two minutes. Who's in? With this remark to be entered. Thank you. Do you mind? No abstentions? There's no way I can konstatirati out that out of 39 who voted 39 were in favour. I agree that we adopted the minutes from the 25th and 26th session of the House of Representatives. Moving to the second item of the agenda. Ad. 2. Representatives' questions and answers From last session to now, the answers to questions have been received by distinguished representatives of Mr Adem Borić, Ljubomi Kovačević and Ibrahim Đedović. Does anyone want to ask counseling questions? I find that Mr. Muhamed Begović, the esteemed representative, has raised questions. Mr. Marko Amidžić has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7280	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, distinguished members of the College, I want to inform you again, means that on 28.5 this year I sent the College home a proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 81. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to So I also delivered a decision made in the form, explanation and signatures of the support of eight MPs of this house collected on 23 May. Other information on which I would like to visit you again now that this House today means that in the previous debate it adopted the conclusion of the 27th session of the House of Representatives as I understand it, forgive me for freely interpreting that all initiatives of the representatives, proposals will be submitted to the committees responsible, to the parliamentary authorities and released in the procedure. My question is to the College of the House, and that is to say, does this conclusion also apply to your opinion and to this proposal, meaning the addition of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives to Article 37a concerning the Commission for Defence and Security and its jurisdiction? And regardless of the answer and your willingness to answer that now, or not, I am also asking you that this initiative has the same treatment as others, and related to today's conclusion. It means that it may not be slowed down or stopped, because I have a lot of reasons to insist on the legality or business provisions of this house that I am asking him to consider the initiative, and in what form he will adopt it and whether he will adopt it is the question and the right of the parliamentary majority in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7281	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Marko Amidžić. Mr. Franjo Majdandžić has an esteemed representative, and may the honourable representative Mr. Miloš Jovanović be prepared. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7282	The Honorable Kolegijum, ladies and gentlemen, respected representatives, esteemed representatives of the Council of Ministers, are my following questions: - The work of the Coordinator's Office for the Anti-Poverty Strategy. According to Vecernji list data, since 16.6.2002, these offices have been organised into a dozen Federation cantons and several regional offices in Republika Srpska. According to these data, these media campaign offices have spent 400 thousand KM and for the organisation and numerous round tables, the making of consultations and 800 more, and 800 more,000 KM, and these costs and administrations will total 250 thousand marks as foreseen by 1,450 thousand marks. According to European standards, the opening of one job is 10 thousand KM and this money could create 145 new jobs and raise the question of the efficiency and regularity of the work and the existence of these offices. If all of this is true, it is my suggestion that the work costs of the Office be reduced to normal and rational value, and that the necessary organisational measures be applied in the organisation of these offices. - Second question – I zahtjevati to be delivered within 3 days a nostrated translation of Mr. Eždaun in order to pursue further activities in the direction of the implementation of parliamentary activity on the implementation of tasks, primarily in the fight against crime, corruption and the rule of law, which are the main messages of the High Representative. - Question number three - In the evening list of the Republic of Croatia of 3.6.2002, the president of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Nikola Špirić, who I quote here, is asking you to keep it, because this may end in court – Bosnia and Herzegovina are ruled by crime, and that the mental set of our authorities has been created on crime and corruption. I demand the Council of Ministers' testimony on this and the responsibility of Mr Nikola Špirić, assuming that this is all not true. Question number four – According to Banja Luka Bishop Franjo Komarica's statement in the morning list since 17.6.2002, Hrvat of the region of Banja Luka and Posavina and this year have been released from the Kards programme to help rebuild and develop and return to those areas. I ask the Council of Ministers' resolute ministry to take the necessary action at Lord Eždaun to correct this unwarranted injustice. This is of particular importance given that one of the biggest problems is the return of Hrvat to these areas. - Question number five - Is there a decision by the entity governments to ban the export of cut-off planks and various profiles and logs? If there is no decision, the justification for the ban should be considered in order to preserve our forests, disabling private wealth by using the general public good. Traveling through Bosnia, I see the work of numerous sawmills, which means that the forest is being cut intensively, and there are data that many exports of cut-up buildings, halves and hulls. It is known that the memory of the forest must be limited to the approach and restoration of the forest, and that the proportion is i.e. A larger memory than growth, a collapse of forests, and an ecological disaster arises. Thank you. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7283	I would like to thank Mr Majdandžić, the esteemed representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Miloš Jovanović, and may the honourable representative of Mr Senad Šarganović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7284	I would first ask those who are competent to provide answers to the questions asked earlier if there is a possibility of a little hasty with it. And he would have asked three questions today. First – Who is responsible for karate Republika Srpska's national team as the current world champion and European champion did not get a visa so that it could participate in the European Karatist Championship in the Austrian city of Sand Belten? I don't know if anyone's scared or anything else, but it's really a shame that young people who spilled so much sweat that some bureaucracy didn't allow them to go to the European Championship. Second question – When will Bosnia and Herzegovina's Ministry of Foreign Affairs return Darko Trifunović's first secretary of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the UN in New York? I also ask this question as one of the deputy human rights commissions, and we almost had a roundtable on the subject, and I think unrealizing this is a classic example of violations and human and civil rights. The third question – Who should make up for the funds to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who personally invested in the equipment of abandoned property so that they could live and live in the same place? We already have, I think it's 19 points on the agenda, so I might be talking about this a little bit more, but I think this is one of the problems. So regardless of whether in Republika Srpska or in the Federation, there are people who have invested in abandoned property now need to move out of abandoned property, and simply means they can't have what they invested to get. Now, it means you need to see how to make up for it, but talking means all the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina on any side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7285	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Jovanović. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Šarganović, and may the honourable representative Mr. Buturović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7286	Gentlemen of Parliament, Mr. Chairman of the BiH Presidency, members of the Presidency, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers and members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, MPs. First of all, I would like to thank the Council of Ministers for the answers I have received, especially the efficiency and abandonment of the border crossing of Užljebic, which is in the interest of the citizens of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. 13 Question One – What will the Council of Ministers do to mitigate the negative consequences for the UN-San canton in view of the consequences arising from the Croatian Government's decision to restrict the transport of oil derivatives to the UN-San canton via the Izačić and Maljevac border crossing? The second question – When will the construction of a high school in Bihac and Cazin begin, in particular, that all activities related to the provision of funds have been completed? Third question – How are measures taken against terrorism adopted by this parliament on a proposal from the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7287	I thank the honourable representative Mr. Šarganović. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Butorović, and let the honourable representative of Mr. Osman Brka be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7288	Here I come again, now here's the agenda. I hope to answer these questions will have better luck getting them. Maybe there's a little bit of a complicated answer, maybe they're not at the same level of government, but when we have a government that's so formed that we have to ask here and get information from the Federation, because we don't have another connection. My first question is – In the daily press since 20 May 2002, Dnevni Avaz released the title “Drama at Clinical Hospital Surgery in Mostar with a dangerous infection infected 19 patients due to an epidemic”. Visiting patients has been banned for a month, and emergency and difficult cases have been received at the clinic. I ask through the Council of Ministers for the Federal Health Minister to provide me with an answer as to what is causing the intra-trial infection and what measures have been taken at Canton level, the Federal Government of the Federation to address the problem. And after that answer, we'll see what we can do next. I'll deliver that question. My second question is - for the chairman of the Council of Ministers. The troubles were brought together by four municipalities of northern Herzegovina. The municipal authorities of Konjica, Windows, Rama, Jablanica and Mostar North municipalities are unique in the requirement to urgently pass a law on the separation and direction of revenues from the use of hydroaccumulation. The authorities of these municipalities from a joint meeting of municipal councils held in Jablanica in 4.6.2002 warn that citizens' patience is near the end and that they are not held accountable if uncontrollable protests occur. The federal government has recently made a proposal for the law, but because of certain influences, the proposal did not go to parliamentary procedure. I ask that the Federal Government intervene as soon as possible to put this law in the parliamentary procedure as soon as possible to correct the injustice against these residents of these four municipalities and not to be in that old people's Neretva running through Hercegovina, but it flows into Sarajevo. Let us be allowed to pour into our municipalities at least its tributaries. The third question – my third question is for the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons. Konjic was named the first open city in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and was to serve as an example of the successful implementation of property laws. Konjic municipality is the largest municipality in the Federation and Bosnia and Herzegovina. According to geography it is mountainous mountainous, it is rarely populated and has exceptional conditions for the development of economy and tourism. There is a strong interest in returning in the municipality, but it is therefore necessary to assist and support competent federal and state authorities. In the last two years, there has been no realisation of some projects promised by the federal government, although there are strong interests in returning. The question is, what about the realisation of that data? I'll be in touch with all the paperwork. That's my three questions. I hope I get an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7289	I would like to thank Mr. Buturović, the honourable representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Brka, and let the honourable representative of Mr. Salih Kulenović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7290	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues, 27.5.2002. Mr. Pedi Eždaun visok Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina in his opening speech to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who I fully support said the following findings – these would be my priorities, primarily justice, and then employment through reforms. In his next presentation, he said, it is the country, referring to Bosnia and Herzegovina in which civil rights will be protected by a strong system of justice and strong human rights laws. So governments at all levels, although established by the will of the majority, cannot destroy these rights of tradition or the identities of citizens, groups, no matter how small they are. Mr Eždaun further spoke, there is indeed one inevitable component of this modern European state, which is the judiciary, the Central Bank and the public radio TV service that must be independent and absolutely without political influence. The next text says – because for ordinary people, rule is a right of vital importance. He further says -- the rule of law concerns not only courts, but Bosnia and Herzegovina should also have a state service that is not politicised, which will be responsible for the people. When Mr. Eždaun spoke about an action plan to fight crime, he said under 5 - to strengthen the system that will control the government and prevent the abuse of power in the public sector. All of this, all of these quotes I have cited to ask the Council of Ministers a question – what will make these spoken words of Mr. Eždaun worth in Bosnia and Herzegovina and when will they be brought back to life and when will they be translated into action because of what is happening to us today? So as an illustration, I'm only going to set one example. The 60-minute show since 17.6.2002, which discusses the head of the municipality of Donji Vakuf to Mr Kemal Terzić, where he is accused as the main culprit for the weak return of Srbin to Donji Vakuf. The journalist takes the right to accuse, judge and lynch without any consequences for a publicly spoken lie. I know that everything has been told a lie, because as president of the Commission for Human Rights, Refugees and Asylum, I visited Bosnia Gradiška where we spoke with Mr. Todorović, and with me were Mr. Jovanović and Mrs. Kamberović, where the head of the municipality of Bosnia Gradiška told us about the very correctness of Mr. Terzić, but also the lack of 15 wishes for citizens of Serbian nationality to return from the area of Bosnia Gradiška to Donja Vakuf unfortunately. I want freedom of public words guaranteed to every citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but there is also the responsibility of people who abuse their freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7291	I would like to thank Mr. Brk's esteemed representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Salih Kulenović, and let the distinguished representative Mr. Đedović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7292	Ladies and gentlemen, I said in the last assembly that I would ask another parliamentary question, and here I am doing this promise to myself. So today my question concerns the assignment of land in state or social property. It is a locality in the village of Belajca near Mrkonjic City where such land has started to be allocated somewhere since 1996, so here is the process, unfortunately, and today it is. I've been looking at this situation a little bit, and today it's already visible, the houses are covered. Thirty houses have been built, another 70 houses are planned to be built on the land. I studied and looked at the structure of those people there. They're mostly domicill people, people who praise God are not homeless, but they've got these extra crying, and it hurts like a man, which is a first-class agricultural land turned into building land. Moreover, I am fully convinced that such a way and such actions interfere with the return. Up until 92, this village has been multinational by the structure of the population, and unfortunately only one Bošnjak has returned to that place, and no Hrvat have returned to that place. I'm asking that the really competent authorities, starting with those local authorities, all the way up here to us, warn that and sort of define themselves accordingly. In this regard, my question, which is - (a) Did the municipal authorities in Mrkonjic City, when assigning agricultural land to state, or social property located in Belajc, whose former owners were Kulenović, carry out procedures to exempt from the decision of the VIO representative restricting the allocation of immovable property in state or social property? (b) Has a written request been submitted by the municipal authorities in Mrkonjic City to the Office of the High Representative (C) with a request for the purpose of issuing the exemption been accompanied by all evidence in accordance with the guidelines of the Office of the High Representative and under d) If all of the above is stated under a, b, i c, done, when it was, date and years? That's what I'm interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7293	I would like to thank Mr Majdandžić, the esteemed representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Miloš Jovanović, and may the honourable representative of Mr Senad Šarganović be prepared. 16 I thank the esteemed representative Mr. Kulovenović. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Đedović, and let the distinguished representative of Mrs. Bahrija Osmanović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7295	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to express my dissatisfaction with the question of the 9 October 2001 issue I put on behalf of a group of MPs, and this is about bringing Bosnia and Herzegovina closer to a partnership for peace. Part of the issue concerns the dynamics of approaching the association, and the answer is – The approximation dynamics of the Partnership for Peace Programme is largely dependent on the assessment of the NATO expert team. I don't know if we depend on someone's grades or on changes in the country based on which those grades are made. And I think it's a classic replacement of thesis, actually avoiding precise answers. He would also voice dissatisfaction with the fact that at the 21st session, I asked a question about the maintenance of roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina where I had not received any answers to this day. My question today is 1. How much is Bosnia and Herzegovina's external debt with today's day? How much of that sum is the principal, and how much interest? Who owed and what amount on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina and what is the dynamics of the payment? Is there a debt reduction strategy or are we still leaving who knows how many next generations to deal with it? My second question is, do I, as an MP of this House, have the right to closed mail, or the secrecy of the official mail that I receive from this House? It's about getting everything and one envelope open where the leaves are taken out, God knows what they've been done and delivered. I've warned a few times, in the post office, they claim it's not up to them. I won't tell you who, but it's a naked fact. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7296	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Đedović. The word has a distinguished representative, Mrs. Osmanović, and let the distinguished representative Mr. Malkić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7297	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I don't know how much more sense it makes and ask a parliamentary question. By who knows which way I appear behind this pay phone, always modestly with one possibly two parliamentary questions that I have partially or in no way received an answer. But my perseverance tells me that I will do so in the future and here and this time I am going out with the same question. 17 I ask an already asked parliamentary question that I have not received an answer which is – How many persons in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina have been working on the contract for more than 6 months? I ask this question more than once, and I'll put it in the future until I get an answer. I think it's high time to ask a question like this and get an answer. If I can't get that out of this house this time, then what and how to look further in Bosnia and Herzegovina and how to stop these employers who are using the workforce, they don't report on any basis. It's tomorrow's potential labour shortages, and pension insurance, health care and everything else I don't even talk about. What consequences this workforce can have is too high and commentary. We are witnessing that only one small percentage of the labour force is registered and paying their contributions neatly, and a large percentage is working on black. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7298	I thank the distinguished representative, Mrs. Osmanović. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Malkić, and let the honourable representative Mr Lozančić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7299	Dear gentlemen, I will ask two questions. 1. Why are the laws dealing with traffic regulation which are laid down in the procedure in the Commission for Transport and Communications not being delivered for consideration of this home? and 2. Why does the Council of Ministers not want to or do not give its opinion on the proposals of the laws and other acts submitted by the MPs of this House or others because they consider these proposals to be serious or treat them as unscrupulous? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7300	I would like to thank Mr. Malkić, the honourable representative. Mr. Lozančić has an honorable representative, and may the honourable representative of Mr. Bilbija be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7301	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the Ministers, my question will be addressed to the Council of Ministers, and the reason for this question is the conclusion from the second session of this House, and it is about the present here to call it an affair of the sale of a third operator, i.e. the telecommunications system. I must tell you that we have been given the conclusion of the obligation and I, as chairman of the Commission, to inform this house and that we, by written request, have requested information so that we can work to inform this home. On three occasions, we have renewed the request for information from the Council of Ministers and until today we are not informed, so I am obliged to report as chairman of the committee, and I would also ask the Council of Ministers 18 - When will this Parliament or our commission report to Parliament on the disbursement of the then affair and in general about the conversion of the telecommunications system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7302	I would like to thank Mr. Lozančić's esteemed representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Bilbija, and let the honourable representative, Mr. Lolić, be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7303	Dear gentlemen, I will no longer raise any parliamentary questions. Here's the fifth time I've been on this phone, and I repeat, from four questions in my term, I've only been given one answer. If you remember last session, according to the Rules of Procedure, I asked the College to place one of my parliamentary issues as a regular item of the agenda. And I didn't want to potential it, because here in the Council of Ministers' room we only have as far as I see two representatives, and the best suggestion would be to suggest that this agenda item be either interrupted or that we no longer have a agenda point. Who do we ask the MPs questions and answers to? That's why I didn't even want to insist on getting into the agenda because people don't come and I don't have anyone to ask for an answer. Every time we adopt this home, we give consent to ratification of one of the agreements whether we have in the last sessions an agreement on the transport of passengers with Switzerland. Today we have this with Germany, and we do not have such agreements with countries in the environment. Here's an example with Yugoslavia. We have a series of agreements with countries surrounding customs tariffs and others, and we do not have contracts on the transport of goods and passengers whether in road, rail or air traffic. What's the deal worth to us and we don't have a transport contract. So everything we achieve must be transported through channels or some illegal routes, and from that there is damage, all the peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I'm not going to renew the question, but we have to look for ways. If the Council of Ministers can't attend, let's see when I can attend, and if we have to hold a session somewhere around 12 o'clock. All the laws are urgent when it comes to the budget. My parliamentary question back 4-5 months was to see how many employees we have in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina that are financed from the budget? What's the job plan this year so we know how to adopt the budget? We adopted the budget, and I didn't get an answer to the parliamentary question today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7304	I'd like to thank Mr. Bilbija's esteemed representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Branislav Lolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7305	Dear Presidency, colleagues and colleagues, I have one initiative, one question first to the Council of Ministers - Does the Council of Ministers in co-operation with entity governments, I think this should be prepared at the level of the state, has a plan to prepare the law on extra profit tax? Since we talk a lot about crime, about war profiteers, I think it would be, if the time had come to consider introducing a tax on extra profits, and that income from that tax goes to one fund that would serve credits, to create jobs in a small business for those who will lose their jobs during privatisation. Furthermore, to also prepare the law on the restitution, i.e. the return of unjustly seized property. Secondly, I propose to the Council of Ministers that since I received information the other day that a very good contract with the World Bank has been signed, it seems to me about 50 million marks for the construction of the travel network, that cooperation with the entities' departments for road preparation, access to project documentation and start a road evaluation initiative from Banja Luka to the Sanhedrin Most via Bronze Majdan and Sasin, as it is a road that would significantly shorten the road from Sanjski Most to Banja Luka, shortened the way for people from that part of Krajina to the sea and significantly enabled the economic progress of this region and that we are informed in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7306	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Lolić. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Boro Bjelobrk.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7307	Mr. Chairman, first of all, I suggest that you interrupt the session for at least half an hour and, in agreement with the Rules of Procedure, create regular working conditions for us. Under Article 126, MPs have the right to request oral answers. Since there is no Council of Ministers here, we have no one to address. This is your obligation according to Article 25, i.e. otherwise I publicly state that I will leave the session if you do not allow us to do so, and before that, I will ask the following questions and ask you an oral answer. I will probably become the biggest parliamentary idiot in Bosnia and Herzegovina by asking you day after day from session to session and you and the College question - When will you allow me to get answers about the events in Banja Luka and Trebinj? - When will you allow me the completeness of the response for a visit to the Republika Srpska delegation? - When will you allow me to draw conclusions on this House the completeness of the response that this Parliament has concluded through aggregated information? 20 A new request for an oral question - Since this parliament brings a whole series of conclusions especially to its working bodies on committees, it is definitely that we as a parliamentary assembly do not have any data at any session in which these conclusions are realised. On the contrary, I'm saying that the plan that we've brought here you've significantly dropped your hands in a way that you at least don't give us any information on why it's moving. The last problem is preparation for the delegation, talks with the EU delegation, we cannot get data on the realization of Rod Mepa. I refer to Article 26, who personally and through Article 21bb, obliges you to create organisational conditions that MPs can work normally. So let me conclude - I ask after your responses to a break in which you will allow your presence, because I would also like to ask the President of the Council of Ministers and some other Ministers what, according to the law of Article 130, of Article 126. Otherwise, I will leave today's session publicly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7308	I would like to thank Mr. boriti Bjelobrk, the esteemed representative. I am concluding the agenda agenda of representation issues and answers and you will get answers to what is asked of us. We're still by who knows which time my signature asked for information on those questions you asked for an answer. So we also asked the authorities of Republika Srpska and all resolutions to provide us with answers to those questions that you have repeatedly asked for. And I won't get as soon as one reasonable deadline goes by, and for me it's reasonable 15 days, I'll send a new letter again and try to find a way to get the information you asked for. I can't force them. I'd like you to bring the papers we sent over immediately during the session. We're going to, I mean, as far as the Business break is concerned, only if the club wants a break, we can take a break. I ask the members of the Council of Ministers to be present. It's their right, and it's their obligation, and that doesn't mean we won't move on. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. Ad. 3. A report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of an agreement on the uniform text of the Consumer Protection Act It is one of the laws of the Row Meep. Here's a chance to get him. You've received a report from the Joint Commission. As you have seen, the Commission has reached an agreement on a single text of the Consumer Protection Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Is there any need to discuss this law? Here's a word for Mr. Marko Amidžić. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7309	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, distinguished members of the College, I have called for a brief debate on this agenda point for the reason that I am one of the members of the Commission of the Joint Commission for the Consensus of the Consumer Protection Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina in front of this house, along with Mr Banjac, who is not here, I apologize for mentioning him in the absence and Mr Borić. This report has been placed and removed from the agenda of the House of Representatives at least two or three times in the last few meetings. He would ask his fellow MPs, and I remind them, they have a report in front of them that in 18.3.2002, we had a joint session of the commission and that we agreed the law in full except for one article that was solved in alternatives a. or b. but had a final solution. I express my satisfaction that this report has finally arrived with a reminder that the work on the preparation of this report has been conducted by the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that this is the time from 18.3. to 20.6. three months and two days. Since it is a very important law, you know that some of the deadlines are set there, I stress and repeat that the Commission has reached agreement, you have one final report in front of you and I ask you to at least today solve the issue of this law very important to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7310	I thank the honourable representative, Mr Amidžić. Is anyone else picking up? He's not answering. I'm closing and I suggest we make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Would you mind? No abstentions? There is no meaning to conclude that we unanimously adopted the Joint Commission Report on the conclusion of an agreement on the unique text of the Consumer Protection Act. Of the 29 present, 28 for. So past, no need for an entity vote. So we've agreed to one law. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda. It's Ad. 4.The Joint Commission's report on the conclusion of an agreement on the single text of the Law on Administrative Disputes Report of the Joint Commission you received. The Commission has reached agreement on the uniform text of this law. I'm opening a debate. Who's got needs? If there's no need, I suggest we plead. Who's in? Thank you. Would you mind? No abstentions? There are no 30 who voted 30 voted yes, so unanimously. I agree that we unanimously adopted this report and thus agreed to the single text of the Law on Administrative Disputes. Thank you. 22 Moving to the fifth item of the agenda is Ad. 5. The Joint Commission's report on the achievement of an agreement on the single text of the Law on Administrative Procedure Report of the Joint Commission has also been received. The Commission has reached an agreement on the uniform text of the Act with the amendments in the report. It's a unique text meaning. I'm putting this report under discussion. Is anyone picking up? It was delivered to everyone I hope in time. If no one's answering, I suggest we make a statement about the report. Who's in? Thank you. Would you mind? No abstentions? No. I'm not konstatirati 32 who voted 32 for it. So we passed the report, we agreed, we achieved a unique text of the Law on Administrative Procedure. Thank you. We're moving on to the next item of the Ad agenda. Six. Report from the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina on an urgent procedure, Article 104. The Rules of Procedure have been reached. We don't have anything to do with it. We don't have to vote. So we're just finding out this law goes according to this shortened procedure. We're moving on to the next 7th point, Ad. Seven. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Commission's report on human rights, immigration and refugees and asylum on visits to a number of municipalities in Bosnia and Herzegovina I hope everyone gets the report. There's no agreement on him. We need before we vote here the word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7311	I'm sorry I've been to the phone booth more than once today. I really feel obliged to say some things, so I apologize. I'll try to be brief and very clear. The Committee on Human Rights, Refugees and Asylum, I hope that in this term, at least one step in the quality of the work of the committees of this Parliament has taken place. The Commission is composed of nine members working very intensively and we have almost always held unanimous views on the conclusions we propose on the tour of the field. There was once a case that we didn't have a single point of agreement, but the rest of us always had that. However, there is a problem in this parliament. Last time we unanimously adopted the conclusions on the Commission, they were not voted here again. I don't know why. The college was supposed to agree, why didn't he agree, because no one asked me to talk about those conclusions. And that's how 23 actually challenges a huge effort by the Commission to go around the field, sees the situation, puts it on paper, and asks the House to make a statement about what we see. We will continue to do so to the end regardless of the attitudes of the House. I'll tell you that yesterday we had a session of the Commission on Human Immigration, Refugees and Asylum, that yesterday we analyzed the work of the Round Table, which is, everyone says I don't need to say it, but here I have to say, that it was on a very high level and very significant activity that this Parliament's activity organised by the Human Rights Commission. I thank all here who were present, who allowed it to be done, but also yesterday at that session we scheduled our next move, which is in the first decade of July. We'll take another look at the situation, we'll present it to Dom again. I don't know what's wrong with what people on the spot see, and based on what they see, they come to the conclusion that it doesn't fit this home. To me, it'll always be a mystery to me. I will nastojaću for all my strengths, and I am sure that I am speaking on behalf of all the members of the Commission that by the end of the term of office, they will continue in this way, and for us there will be a written trail that we have made an effort. Why didn't that effort find verification by someone else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7312	I would like to thank Mr. Brk's esteemed representative. The word has a respected representative, Franjo Majdandžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7313	Dear members of the Bureau, a respected College, respected by the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like this first to have a report on the discrepancies of views on the Commission and on the work and tour of these municipalities. It is indeed inadmissible that such a report is given without any argument which will show either methodologies or something that will guide the members of the Commission how to work, how this report should be drawn up and how we should do it. It's so bad that these undersigned fellow doctors and even the magistrates failed your exam completely. I wouldn't allow myself so you know I'm doing that, especially academical so-called experts, citizens. Secondly, I ask this parliament to say and write down a methodology for how to work. Turns out we don't know that. We're trying, we're doing some kind of methodology that we know of. Maybe it's some other planet or I don't know what kind of methodology it is to put that methodology on us, let's see if we can learn, etc. Is to do what needs to be done. Look at our reports, they're a summary of what the state is, what the problems are, etc. At the last session, during a previous discussion of the congregation, it was an observation that we are not proposing how these conclusions should be realized. That we didn't realize them, so we're not you. It's in the power of some other executive authorities whether it is. Thank God, it would be good if we were you, but we're not you. So a whole series of misunderstandings just to avoid doing something that is extremely useful. People, when you come among these people, when you talk, and they see you as something that's invisible, and that's really one of the benefits and everything, it turns out now that it's the work of anger... And now I suggest that members, I, for example. I won't go on, because it's claimed that what I do doesn't do right and that for my work, because it still costs, that for my work, I'm creating adequate costs. 24 Secondly, I would suggest to the other members of the Commission that yesterday we simply agreed that it would not continue to work until Parliament or someone or the College had prescribed the methodology by which we should work, so that we could do our work in quality, professionally and properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7314	I thank the esteemed representative Mr. Franja Majdandžić. I'm closing the debate. Let me explain. You, as you say, agreed to the Commission's report. That's what you'll show by your vote. Therefore, if you from the Commission all vote for this report he will pass, and I can say for myself that I will vote. Therefore, we are left with the procedure. Don't, for the last time, have you conducted a report and a debate on the report from the Commission. So don't come after us. Each one has his own voice and his own hand to raise and plead. If there is no more, I suggest we plead. We must conduct, whether it is a discussion or, the word has the honourable representative Mrs Violeta Kamberović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7315	I'd just like to say for a little while, Mr. Majdandžić looked back at the College. However, there is one other thing, and it is a mix between us here and parliamentarians, each of us report from the committee that came to this parliament has not been adopted by some MPs -- MPs. Therefore, it does not bear the blame of the College for not adopting, but we bear the representatives who are sitting and who, in fact, there is one thing that here in our Parliament is constantly obstructing the adoption of individual laws and even reports by the Commission on Human Rights. Therefore, when we talk about the report by the Human Rights Commission, it is not controversial. The conclusions found in it are contentious. First of all, let every MP get a good look at it. Does he do good or bad by his vote for the people who sit there and wait for us to resolve their questions of life? I also think that we have a moral obligation to dissipate and resolve these issues.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7316	I would like to thank the distinguished representative, Mrs. Violeta Kamberović, and I would like to propose that we speak out who's in favour. We need to conduct the procedure. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? Thank you. Of the 36 present for 26 – versus 4 – abstention 3. Now we're just going to this second part of the case that's against it. Who is from the Federation of BiH against? Who's from RS territory who's against it? From the territory of the Federation without opposition – from the territory of RS 7 v. So you passed the commission report. 25 Thank you. We're moving to the 8th point of the agenda. Ad.8. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusions of Mr Mirko Banjac, who was proposed in the process of reviewing the proposal for a law on the purpose and use of part of the property that BiH received under the Agreement on Succession You received a report, we did not agree. We didn't achieve consent. It is necessary to carry out the plea procedure. Is anyone answering for a word before the voting process? He's not answering. Who's in? We have not reached agreement on the issue proposed by Mirko Banjac. So we have to conduct the procedure for who's to conclude. Not our report. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Of the 36 who declared themselves 8 for – 19 against – 5 abstentions. So it didn't pass, we have nothing further to carry out the procedure. There's no way he'll make it through later. Ad.9. The proposed law on concessions of BiH – second reading As you know this bill in the competent commission has been discussed twice. You've received, I hope the commission's report. This was followed by the Commission’s agreement in the first reading, and at the 25th session of the House was adopted in the first reading. The amendments they wish to defend in the plenary phase were submitted by distinguished representatives of Mr Mirko Banjac 12 amendments and Branislav Lolić three amendments. So we're supposed to be raving in another reading. It is, therefore, a matter of details at first, a debate on amendments. I'm opening a debate. Rijeka has a distinguished representative, Ms. Emina Zaćiragić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7317	I welcome all present. I'll just say a few words about Mr Branislav Lolić's amendments. The amendments shall be based on Rule 94(a) of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with that Article, the amendments may be tabled within a specified time limit if amendments to the Financial and Budget Committee have been adopted. You know that this concession law had a slightly unusual procedure for the amendments made to the return procedure to the re-report of the principles of the law. These amendments have been rejected by the Finance and Budget Commission and are now in the procedure. Mr Bransilav Lolić's amendments have arrived. Since no amendments to Mr Mirko Banjac have been adopted, I do not think the amendment can be submitted in this way, on the basis of Article 94. I always remain with the claim that the entire Article 94 is related to the amendments adopted, regardless of position 3. The College, actually chaired and members of the College, only assume the role of the Commission for amendments which relate to the amendments adopted and such amendments do not go to the Commission's procedure, are therefore bound directly to the amendments adopted on the Commission. That's also logical, because any other amendment could fall into the essence of the law or the principles of harm. I don't think we can adopt this amendment today and it should be rejected by Mr Branislav Lolić's amendment. I am speaking as President of the Commission, because this law on concessions had this one procedure unusual, which, in the previous report, we presented and this amendment by Mr Branislav Lolić again has 26 tasks to postpone the adoption of this concession law and it will constantly return to some procedure and reconciliation. I think that's the purpose of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7318	I thank the honourable representative. Replica was reported by Vice-President Mirjanić
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7319	Please, I wish there was no more terminology in this home that suggests that someone here wants to perform an obstruction. It's not about any obstruction or the amendment Mr. Lolić filed as a member of the club. There's a club behind that amendment. It's not obstruction. It's the club's wish to pass a concession law. Those who weigh the word obstruction must have arguments for it. The submission of amendments is not an obstruction and this club is ready to pass the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7320	Thank you. I suggest a five-minute break for the College to plead. Is there a need? So, five minutes break. Really five minutes after the break is in half an hour. So, let's go back right now. The amendments proposed by the honourable representative Mr Lolić were contained in these 12 amendments. [[PAUZA]] They're the same. Therefore, they have no need at all. The word has been given to Mr. Bilbija's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7321	Dear gentlemen, since the text of the motion has been adopted by a number of amendments to the Finance and Budget Committee of the House of Representatives, and given that this law has been passed on to the House of Peoples, I am sitting as club president at a session of the Extended College, which was held this morning even to find the opportunity to conclude this law today. Club bosses were present and there was a will to resolve this law, because I said this morning it was for the sake of Bosnia and Herzegovina and of all the peoples. Since he is in one way, he is ugly to say disturbed, but there have been major changes in the yield to the proposal text, in this case we won't be able to support this text and I wouldn't want anyone to accuse us of obstruction, because really this morning, the club chiefs asked us to settle this law today. Thank you. According to the text of the House of Peoples, which is agreed on coordination and agreed on at the House of Peoples and for the reason that they would not now form a committee to bring the text between the two homes, and we have seen the situation that most of the Rod Mepas are not fulfilled and for this reason the commission cannot agree, essentially two different texts come up, cannot be agreed and so I suggested that we adopt this text in order to have this law today. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7322	I'd like to thank Mr. Bilbija's esteemed representative. We can't stop our procedure. We're a home of our own. We're not any spare home to the House of Nations or we're a substitute for some coordination there. I'm interested in legislative procedures. We all have a chance to spend. Is anyone else picking up, or should we go to a statement on the amendments? So we have amendments. I'm asking the departments to follow. We have 12 amendments to Mr. Mirko Banjac's honourable representative. As for the amendment of Mr. Lolić's honourable representative, we didn't, they were contained in the amendments to these. Therefore, we cannot vote twice. I suggest we make a statement on the amendment number and the honourable representative of Mr. Mirko Banjac. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Thank you. The abstentions? Of 35 votes – 12 for – 18 against – 3 abstentions. So, he didn't pass, he shouldn't go to entity. Amendment number II Who's in? All amendments are to Mr. Banjac's distinguished representative. Who's against it? Thank you. The abstentions? Of the 35 who voted – 12 for – 18 against – 4 abstentions. So he doesn't have most of it. Amendment number III Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? The abstentions? Of the 36 who voted 11 for – 21 against – 3 abstentions. So he didn't pass. You don't have to vote any further. Amendment number IV Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. The abstentions? 11 for – 19 against – 5 abstentions of 36 means did not pass. We're moving to a statement on Amendment number V. Amendment number V. Who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. The abstentions? Of the 36 who voted – 11 for – 20 against – 2 abstentions. So he didn't get the necessary majority. 28 Amendment number VI Who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Restraint? From 36 – 11 for – 20 against – 4 abstentions. So he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number VII Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. The abstentions? Thank you. Of the 36 who voted – 11 for – 20 against – 3 abstentions. So he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number VIII Who's in? Who's against it? The abstentions? Of the 36 who voted 11 for – 20 against – 4 abstentions. So he didn't pass. Amendment number IX Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Of the 36 who voted 12 for – 20 against – 3 abstentions. So he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number X Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. Of the 36 who voted 12 for – 20 against – four abstentions. So this amendment number X didn't go through either. Amendment number XI Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. Of the 36 who voted 11 for – 20 against and 4 abstentions. So Amadnment number XI wasn't adopted. Amendment number XII Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? From 36 – 11 for – 20 against – 4 suspensions. So Amendment XII hasn't been adopted. We have another amendment. 29 Amendment number XIII Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. The abstentions? From 36 – 11 for – 20 against – 4 abstentions. So this amendment didn't get the number of votes it needed either. By procedure, we should vote on the law completely. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? So of the 36 who voted - 25 for - against the 3-8 abstentions. We have to go to entity. Who's from RS territory for? Thank you. Who's from Federation territory for? From RS 2 for – Federation 23 for. So he didn't get the entity majority. He's going on a date. This means we're done with the 9th agenda. We're taking an hour off. In that break, do your lunch. It's in two and a half. Let's get to the 10th point of the agenda. [[PAUZA]] Ad.10. Proposal for a law on the first – second reading Also to apologize for being a little late. Okay, you were at lunch and we were with the president of the International War Crimes Court. So it's about important issues, so when I say that I'm sorry that we had to, however, but people were very interested in being angry about the very important issues of these issues. These are creations in front of domestic courts that we don't open. So, the proposal for this law was adopted in the first reading of the 25th session of the House. We don't have amendments to this law in the plenary phase as it says here. I'm opening a debate on this proposal for a management law. This is the proposal for a law on first – second reading. I'm opening a dispersion. Does anyone answer, does anyone want to talk about this law? If no one wants me to close the dispersion. I suggest we make a point on this proposal for a management law. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. Of the 33 who pleaded 33 in favour, without a vote against, without the abstentions. So there's no need for entity. We adopted this bill. Here I have received information that this text is different from the text adopted in the House of Peoples, because they have not adopted any amendments but our commission is at this commission stage. I think it would be good to go right into this point when we passed this law to form a commission, to give three members to this joint commission that will bring this law into line. Well, here's if you have suggestions right away. 1. Mirko Mijatović, is there any further? I suggest Mr. Vukoć's distinguished representative, if you don't mind. We need another one. 30 Can we have this commission? Mijatović, Vukić and Filipović. We can't do ten. We've got three. What's the suggestion? Proposal Mirko Mijatović, Zdenko Vukić, Omer Filipović. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. I find that with 33 votes, we have formed a commission to address this issue to the House of Nations. Ad.11. Proposal for a law on the protection of the rights of national minorities – second reading Here is a proposal from the Council of Ministers. You know that we have some other proposals that the distinguished MPs have made and they are at the same stage as these others. So, you're going to have to implement the procedure, but depending on how this law goes, we'll see. There are no amendments in the planning phase, as already certain amendments have been adopted by the commission before. I'm opening a dispersion. Does anyone outside the Council of Ministers have needs? There isn't. I'm opening up for a dispersion. Is there any of the honourable MPs here? If there is, if there's no need, then nothing. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7323	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues, I believe that we no longer need to be bickering about this because this has long been brought into line with the Council of Ministers' proposal, and I am pleased that Mr Zubak is here. Mr. Ljubić has given his amendments. It was adopted on the committee, and so it came to Parliament. I think there's this here in the report all the way through the procedure as it progressed. We've been harmonising this law for a very long time, and I think we should vote this out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7324	I would like to thank Mr. Brk's esteemed representative. Is anyone else picking up? He's not answering. I suggest we make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. I agree that we are unanimous of 37 who voted in favour without 37 votes against, without abstentions. We passed the Law on the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities. Ad.12. The proposal for a law on the holidays of BiH – second reading This is the law that came from the House of Peoples, which passed through our commissions. You've been informed that there are two other holiday laws in the procedure. Therefore, depending on the fate of this and they will all be on the agenda. The bill was passed at the 21st session in the first reading. Mr. Sead Avdić has submitted amendments he wants to defend at the plenary stage. So now we have to discuss this second phase, so the debate on amendments, as well as the vote on amendments, and finally the vote on the bill. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Cuplov. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7325	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to point to one illogicality in the adopted amendments by the Constitutional and Legal Commission. In the text of the law that we have before us Amendment II changes and reads, and then you have the text. If you look at Article 2 to which the amendment applies, there is one illogicalness, with the extension of the content of the amendments, the extension of this Article given by amendment II by Mr Titan has been left out of the part which determines how many days it is concerned, i.e. that part is practically not regulated by law. Because the amendment primarily refers to religious holidays and the right to pay and use those days for religious holidays. Since it is not only religious holidays treated with Article 2 that remain one indeterminate and illogical in the context of the overall message of this law. Is it now possible to technically first by retaining the last third position in the existing Article 2 then the amendment would lose on its wholeness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7326	I would like to thank Mr. Cuplov's esteemed representative. Who else is answering? Okay, but the word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7327	Ladies and gentlemen, in any case, I would like to support the need to pass a law on BiH's national holidays, namely to adopt a regulation that characterises the character of a country. However, I cannot understand that the proponent in this scope can minimise BiH by proposing only three holidays that will be of state character in BiH and that holiday that do not reflect the character of the statehood of a country. I have a review of the national holidays of Western Europe and other democratic and other democratic countries, which mainly have between 11 and 20 national holidays during the year, and it is unimaginable that the state holiday law does not have a date reflecting the country's day of statehood. There is no date that reflects the day of independence of that lovely. There are no other dates that characterize the entry, i.e. the formation of one country. We're here for something, some kind of law that has four or five members, where at least there are states. There are at least countries in all of this. Some new year, we all know it's May 1st and November 25th Antifascism Day. It's not about BiH either. It could be in general in the world. What is it about, what are the dates related to BiH? Where is the day of independence, where it is statehood day and in this direction I ask that this proposed law be withdrawn and complemented with at least three or four more dates that reflect the character of the state, namely to define what the day of statehood is, to define what is the day of independence, the day of peace and other dates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7328	I would like to thank Mr. Malkić, the honourable representative. Is anyone else picking up? If he does not report, the word has an esteemed representative, Mr. Mašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7329	Dear colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, the Presidency, the chairman, I would just ask all of us here to look each other in the eye and to say why it bothers to call it statehood day and why it doesn't bother us to be honest with each other once. I have arguments about why it's supposed to be statehood day, but I'd like to hear against arguments that don't consider me and the other tenants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7330	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Damir Mašić. Who's next to the word? The word has the vice-president, Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7331	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Presidency, dear guests. Namely, on the trail of the previous discussion, that is, the previous discussion objectively raises the question that it is in Article 1. The BiH Constitution, stance 1, says BiH continues its existence under international law as a state with its internal structure, as amended by this constitution with all existing internationally recognised borders, it remains a member of the UN, etc. So, objectively having this historical question too, we're looking at a question that is one of the most significant dates for this country. I think we can't take the impression that it can't be contradicted, it's an objective day of BiH statehood on November 25th and, in that sense, no less or less, it's one of the cornerstones of this country, one of the anchors for which this country is held, simply relying in this context, after all, one of the most significant dates, if not the most significant for this country for all of its future, it's the 25th day of statehood, which reflects the second session of the ZLABIH, on which once again, simply confirmed borders of the then Republic of BiH, today the BiH countries and in this context, in the perception of ordinary people, I would say all three peoples and peoples and peoples of BiH, this is, however, the most important historical date for the state of BiH. In that sense, I am staying with my amendments and I think we have a full argument to defend this one attitude to declare statehood day on November 25th a holiday for BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7332	I would like to thank Mr. Avdić's distinguished representative. Word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Borić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7333	Dear Members of the Parliament, I would like to say in front of the Party of Democratic Action MPs' club, that in this one-and-a-half year's work we have adopted many laws that have had certain shortcomings, but we appreciated that these laws, however, represent a step forward for BiH, but indeed, in this law we do not see a minimum of one that BiH in this segment would solidify, on the contrary, so Mr Malkić expressed the position of the SDA Parliament Club. We really can't vote for a law like this in a text like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7334	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Borić. Is anyone else picking up? He's not answering. I'm closing the debate. 33 We should declare two amendments to the honourable representative of the gentleman, meaning the amendment number and the honourable representative of Mr Sead Avdić. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? From 38 – 21 for – 10 against – 4 abstentions. Entire vote. Who's from RS for? Thank you. Who's from the Federation for? Thank you. From RS 3 for – from Federation 22 for. So, you need to get along. Only to try or take a break so we can vote on the law. Now we can't even vote on the law. So, we need to get in line with this amendment, so if we can reach agreement. We're going to the 13th agenda. Ad.13. The proposed law on the Information Agency for the Protection of Institutions of BiH – the first reading of this law is, as you saw at the beginning of the session as the legislator of the law that went through the procedure, the Bureau withdrew its law, then groups of MPs proposed a new law under Article 105 means procedures without amendments. We must first declare this request to be discussed under Article 105. Does anyone report for raps on this request? If no one's answering, who's to pee on Article 105? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. Of the 38 who voted 38 for, then, the request to be discussed under Article 105 was accepted. So that's why we need to carry out the debate and the confession. I am opening a debate on this proposal for a law on the Information and Protection Agency in BiH institutions. Who's answering for a word? The word has the vice-president, Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7335	I take advantage of the opportunity to explain, I had amendments to this law which were very serious. I had suggested that two more departments be introduced, one department to join Interpol in this information and protection agency of BiH institutions. That's one thing. Secondly, to organise and establish an anti-terrorist task force at BiH level, either simply or an emergency unit or an action that would deal with, simply, the implementation of inter-entity and criminal laws, which is quite correct and founded in the Constitution and in BiH's powers. However, given the discussions and in view of today's Article 105, etc. I am giving up these amendments, but I would like to give a suggestion to the Council of Ministers that, following the implementation of this law and its resuscitation, consider and perhaps pass or propose a law amending the law of the Information and Protection Agency of BiH institutions. Thank you. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7336	I would like to thank Mr. Avdić's distinguished representative. Is anyone else picking up? He's not answering. I propose that we make a statement on the proposal for a law on the Information and Protection Agency of BiH institutions. Who's in? Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. I'm finding out from 38 who voted 38 for it. So we unanimously adopted the Law on the Information Agency for the Protection of BiH Institutions. Thank you. Ad.14. The proposal for a law on guaranteeing BiH's deposit – a first reading of the principles and principles of the bill was submitted by the Council of Ministers with a request for consideration under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. We made a statement about it at the last session. This proposal was sent to the representatives on 9.05. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion 14.5. The Commission for Finance and Budgets was delivered, which was sent to the representatives on 3.06th of the current year, so it is based initially on Article 95 and the statement will also be made in the first reading. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Adem Borić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7337	I'm sorry, but we had one remark. I don't know how much it's in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we've called on that Article at point 94, and today we've heard that there's no foundation. However, we cannot say that we had one amendment to Article 14(4) where we put that instead of the text: "the Agency's headquarters in Banja Luka", it should read: "the Agency's headquarters is in Sarajevo" the rest of the text would remain the same. So, we've had such an objection in the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7338	It's about first reading, so principles and principles. It is therefore possible to act as an amendment in this second phase. So today we're just in the principles and principles of 95th, and there's going to be a vote on that. If no one answers, I suggest we make a statement in our first reading of this bill. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. I find that of the 38 who voted 38 voted in favour. So we unanimously adopted the proposal for a law on ensuring BiH's deposit in the first reading. Did Deputy Minister Imamović want an intervention? 35
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7339	The Honorable Presidency, the honourable MPs, indeed, I will not hold any elaborates. I just want to point out one thing. Thank you for your support for your first reading, so I would like to ask the College to give this law to the council and to the second reading as soon as possible to meet the deadlines set by the donors for this project. The deadline for this law to be passed is 14. July 15th. I ask that we all make efforts to get this done as soon as possible, in order to carry out our obligations to international donors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7340	I thank Mr. Imamović. Do you doubt us? We're moving to the 15th point of the agenda. Ad.15. Request for an examination of the conflict of interest law in BiH's institutions – by emergency procedure, Article 105. The Rules of Procedure – the proponents are respected representatives of Mr Željko Mirjanić, Željko Bilbija, and here is the club, but since there is no club in us yet in the Rules of Procedure, I see that many more legislators have joined the law here in the first version of the House of Peoples proposed the law to us, but I think we can do it correctly. This is about a law that was provisionally declared by the High Representative. I'm opening a debate. At the request of a hearing under Article 105. If no one's answering, I suggest we make a statement as to who's to discuss it under Article 105. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? The abstentions? - 1 Of the 38 who pleaded 37 for – without a vote against – 1 abstention. There's no need for entity. We have accepted that this law is based on Article 105. I am opening a debate under this law in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. Who's answering for a word? He was published in the Official List. Do the legislators want to? They don't want to. I am concluding the debate and I suggest that we declare this law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? The abstentions? - 1 Of the 38 who pleaded 36 for – 1 versus – 1 conceited. So we passed this law. There's no need for entity. Thank you. 36 Ad.16. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Veterinary Law of BiH under the urgent procedure of Article 104. So this is about the deadlines being shortened, we're just discussing you going to argue under Article 104 and the commission phase, everything just goes a little bit shorter. Is there anyone who needs to piss in front of the Council of Ministers? There isn't. Who's in favor of tampering with Article 104? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. It's about the veterinary law. Of the 37 who pleaded for it was 36 without votes against, without abstentions. So, we adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Veterinary Veterinary of BiH as an emergency procedure under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. So I'm going on. Ad.17. The Annual Report of the Central Bank of BiH for 2001 and the Financial Report of the Central Bank of BiH from 31.12.2001 I am opening the debate. You know we took this off last time for technical reasons because there were no proposing representatives. Now we've got that kink. I'm opening a debate. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Kovačević.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7341	Ladies and gentlemen, since I've been reporting for the word so far, I'm going to be very brief, because now I have a nice picture, I have a picture here, you see a new photo report, etc. So it's my tool for today's upset. I believe that the Central Bank, according to the Central Bank Act and the first Carensibord, successfully did business in 2001. I'm not going to be taxing because there's everything in the report. So, as they also figured out by the rules of Carensibord that they had implemented that rule is respected, it says done business with 99.99%. So we can round 100% and if it's very rare and often. I just, and I don't think the vice governor is answering me now for the questions I asked on the Finance and Budget Commission and today I'd just like to say that in this year, because next year this existing arrangement in one part of it stands out to the Central Bank Act that in this year, a little bit in the Central Bank is thinking about whether it's possible to keep it in 100% of the amount of deposits that serve as a cover for the issue of conversion marks in foreign banks and there to strengthen those deposits or, since we're going to provide the Deposit Insurance Agency Act so that domestically, we're going to have to create a strong banking system within BiH and keep deposits in the banks of BiH and that these deposits serve as a credit potential for the approval of credit that promotes development, employment, etc. I also don't know about the conditions of a negative balance of payments, it's constantly, here, four thousand and something less in the past and less than in the previous year. As it is possible to further maintain the right of the Carensibord, i.e. the currency board or the monetary council, it does not matter what we call it under the condition of a permanent balance of payments deficit. So, without a self-sustaining economy, and with a negative balance of payments from where we're going to get the funds, because money can't go and buy, there must be... for gold for something. So how do we get for that rule? I'm afraid, by following that rule of the currency board that we don't come to the economy completely... 37 collapses, if it didn't come to us like it did in Argentina, because if it broke, don't give the God's currency board, it would be a general mess. There is no more measure that could be predicted to come out of it afterwards. Whether raising the economic power of BiH means using all these available deposits, through a system of mandatory reserves, etc. How to strengthen these domestic banks, some 4-5 etc. And deposit them through the secured reach so that these banks can pay their loans to our economy to make it come alive? I really well-intentioned that I say and someone needs to, as softly maintain and currency, whether to maintain a government board, and move on to some of the functions of the Central Bank that in other economies in the world has a Central Bank. But the question arises what are the chances and what are the risks that the currency committee in this firmly cemented rule of doing business. I said that exactly, that this is the best solution for the future of this BiH, I think we would have kept it, that I used to say long ago both Germany and France and England and so on. They wouldn't do business on the principle of a central bank like that. However, I support the report in 100%, and I think it is unnecessary to discuss it, that the Central Bank is what the law has given and by the rules of the Currency Committee that it has done its job at 100%, and that the report can be accepted, but it does not mind these considerations. The most... we have an economist in BiH, the other hundreds who need to think about this development.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7342	I thank the honourable representative, Mr Kovačević. Who else is answering for a word? Rijeka has a respected representative, Mr Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7343	I apologize for this activity, but I would like to ask one question to the Central Bank with one assessment that it really needs to congratulate the Central Bank and Carinsibord to maintain the stability of the currency in BiH, and that is good, although the macro-economicists disagree on the part and to polarise. My question is next. So the Central Bank's foreign currency assets increased to two billion and six hundred ninety-seven million KM. That's 146% more than 2000. So, the end of December 2001. Every day, free foreign exchange reserves increase. Right? So, I wonder why free foreign reserves don't objectively engage in financial flows in BiH? Because, objectively, it remains still blocked funds within the Central Bank. Whether they can be put into office and just from the point of view, means, helping BiH and in this context they are not important with maintaining the currency in BiH. What about those funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7344	I would like to thank Mr. Avdić's distinguished representative. Is there anyone else? Does the Central Bank's representative want to?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7345	Dear MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to tell Mr. Governor that he is not present, which he is not present at this session. He is on his way out and I would first of all like to thank Parliament for its assistance, for the support it has provided throughout the past period of the Central Bank's work. In short, only the answer to Mr Avdić's question. We have a Central Bank Act that speaks of the need for at least 5%, so the amount of our assets to be secured as a reserve. We also have from the IMF explicitly, also, in 38 forms of amount and dynamics how much we need to realize and how much we need to achieve the net foreign reserve. So this is about the fact that the Central Bank has limitations both legally and from international financial institutions, and since the smokaltic customs system, it is logical that we have to have some additional coverage as the safety of the success of this, to say the school example of the carensibord arrangement as it is in BiH. So it's not disputed that it's over-exploitation, meaning that amount of foreign exchange reserve and activity, which is above what KM is in circulation. So, if it were above what would be mandatory by customs and if the opportunities were opened to say the introduction of some additional elements, which Mr Kovačević was saying, in some sense, to open the door to some of the activities of the Central Bank in the monetary sphere in support of commercial banks and government, it would, above all, be from net foreign reserve funds. So there is one possibility but there is a need to make changes to the law and in this sense the relationship between Parliament and, of course, the political authorities in BiH in many ways depends on how we behave in the future. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7346	I would like to thank Deputy Governor Dragan Kovačević for these answers to these questions asked by respected MPs. I propose that we conclude the debate and propose that we accept the annual report of the Central Bank of BiH for 2001 and the financial report of the Central Bank of BiH on 31 December 2001. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. I agree that we accepted the report unanimously with 36 votes for, without votes against, without abstentions. Thank you. Ad.18. Information on the implementation of Annex VII of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH means, follows the debate on the declaration and acceptance of information. Whether the Council of Ministers' predecessor has the word Krešimir Zubak.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7347	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm going to say a few sentences about the information you have before you. In fact, information provides a comprehensive overview of the situation in the area of refugees and displaced persons, i.e. their return, i.e. the implementation of the Annex VII of the Peace Agreement. The information was made as a regular material to be delivered to the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly, and it is, in fact, the realisation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Work Programme. The information was based on data from 31.12 last year. So, looking from today's perspective, it's already outdated material. But the objective circumstances in which we are, here we are in a situation, here we are today to inform ourselves about what was the situation in this area in the previous year. 39 In fact, with all these indicators presented in this information, we had only available in the third month, so that only then could we create one such comprehensive and comprehensive information and then also other procedures in the institutions of the authorities likely conditioned that today be put on the agenda of this home. ... that the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers adopted this information but that it was also adopted in the BiH presidency, or the BiH Presidency organised a special meeting of top officials in the country, i.e. from both entities and from the state and at that meeting, on the agenda of the meeting was this information. So, it was the basis to first a memorandum of support in the efforts taken by the ministry that a positive trend in refugee return and displaced persons in BiH continues in this year and raises even higher levels and I can tell you that this memorandum has been accepted and I think it will be these days and signed. When it comes to the return of refugees and displaced persons, we have given here one complete piece of information that lacks only one piece of information that you are probably interested in and we have been interested in for a long time and that we have only come to these days. It's a data that we don't fully have, we got from other sources, actually, we wanted to see how much was spent last year for return purposes, and we came up with information that last year was spent somewhere around 160,000 KM. It's much less than the previous years and most spent in '97. ........................................................................................................... the years when these returns investments moved around 200 million KM. This data, but also our intention to raise and speed up the return trend were the reasons why we took a whole series of measures and activities this year, so that this deal on the realization of Annex VII was completed as soon as possible, i.e. to address the problem of refugees and displaced persons in BiH. In this sense, we have had several very important meetings so far, among other things, two talks with donors with NGOs and other entities that are participating the return process to BiH. We wanted, in fact, to maintain the interest, above all, of the international communities and donors for their investment in the return process, and we hope to keep that interest in this year. In fact, it would be a shame if this trend was not maintained, and this year, it is also extremely pervasive. According to all our data, if the return trend went at this pace as it started early this year, we would have had better indicators at the end of this year than in the previous year. So it would return to its homes more than 100,000 we estimate about 120,000 refugees and displaced persons, and when it comes to the structure of the returnees then it would again be dominant so-called. minority returns, i.e. the returns of Bošnjak and Hrvat in the RS area, that is, the urban areas of the Federation, and last year as you can see... that in this sense, the port is recorded. The indicators show that, or when it comes to solving property claims, look at the material, it seems to me to be page 19 of what results we had at the end of last year, today we have already reached 50%, not only solved but also returned to the property of apartments, or private houses. We have thus met one of the conditions of the Map of Path and I am personally convinced that this information at the end of the year will be beyond our donations and beyond our expectations. Today in BiH, we have 123,000 returned to property, which is, therefore, 50%. What is also important to point out as a positive trend for the imbalance that existed when it comes to the recovery of refugees, i.e. the resolution of property requirements between the two entities, i.e. the Federation and the RS, to reduce it so that we have an exceptional increase and success in the resolution of property requirements, the return to ownership of property and in the RS area. So, the data indicators for this period, for this period this year are also encouraging and we hope to order even better results. 40 We have here given one picture of the state of all segments and the national structure and regional representation, by entities, refugees, displaced persons, therefore, according to all the data we have at this time. In addition, we have intensified talks with the Republic of Croatia with the assistance of the international community certainly, the UNHCR, the USEID Stability Pact, to exchange data between BiH and the Republic of Croatia, between BiH and Yugoslavia. In fact, it is quite certain that we may have a few more registered refugees and displaced persons than it really is, because it is certainly the same now, according to the data we have, we have double users, we have those who have been returned to BiH, and let's say they still kept their refugee status in the Republic of Croatia. And as long as we don't share these databases with Croatia and Yugoslavia, we won't have what is a safe insight, that is, full insight into the state of the region. In that sense, talks are started and I hope when it comes to achieving an agreement. An agreement has been signed with Croatia, and these days we expect to sign the agreement with Yugoslavia. This is especially important because in these two countries, at first, we still have the most refugees in both these countries and most potential returnees, refugees as potential returnees. If there are any questions I'm willing to answer, but I would also like to point out that... the activities we've taken this year have been a reason to hold on. We also hope that we will prove it at the end of the year to retain the interest of the international community in financing reconstruction and reconstructions that are in the function of returning not only homes, houses, but also rebuilding infrastructure. In fact, we have started a concept, a new concept of joint investment between both entities and the BiH state to return and such efforts, such political will and efforts as we have made and pooled the funds are fully supported by the international community. As a result, we have already signed several joint projects. There are several joint projects in the preparation phase and a number of offers for new joint projects have been opened, which means that we work together in the Federation of the Republic of Slovenia, and now I have interests in municipal and cantonal levels. So, when all of this comes to mind, I think at the end of the year we'll have much better results than it was last year, and if it's been over the past year as well according to the estimates of all relevant institutions and the international community, last year was quite good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7348	I thank the Minister for Human Rights and Refugees at the Council of Ministers, Mr Krešimir Zubak, for the opening explanation of the report on the implementation of Annex VII of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH. Here we have disputed in the New Order as it bears its name, whether it's information or a report. My papers say, however, a report and they have some other paperwork that says information. Mr. Osman Brka's esteemed representative came forward. Who else is going on?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7349	I'll try to be very brief and I'll talk about two things. We have the next item on the agenda relating to information 41 on the situation in the field of immigration and asylum in BiH territory. I just touched it so I wouldn't go out again. I, in fact, have one general remark that a relationship towards Parliament and the institutions of Parliament as well as commissions are laxative. I believe that these materials should have been addressed to the Commission and that the Commission is discussing this and that with its views it should have come to this Parliament. I exactly support what the minister said here that they had a program – the work plan that they agreed with the Presidency is all right, it's all true. I don't see why in all this work, avoid the Commission for Human Rights Immigration, Refugees and the asylum of the State Parliament. It's simply unexplainable to me, especially what I think, indeed, that this commission can give certain suggestions, because in the field of very much trouble, and I don't think I've been taking your time for a very long time here, I'm going to draw just one thing that's bound by the Dayton Agreement and it's never come to life and we all swear on the Dayton Agreement in every letter of it. To the soul, today it is only at Parliament's session that the conclusions we gave us last time are adopted. I'll draw our fourth conclusion here. It is necessary to establish an estate fund of refugees and displaced persons at the Central Bank of BiH, which is also an obligation under the Dayton Agreement. The fund would be charged from the ethnic budgets as well as from dedicated donations. The Fund would finance a return, and would claim self-employment and employment of returnees, which would contribute to a sustainable return. Why do I have to point this out and consider it a crucial thing to come back for two reasons? Wherever we were on the ground in BiH, it doesn't matter at all which entity, we've always met with the problem of donations and the colourfulness of various, variety of patterns. People who work in public authorities in municipalities very often have no idea who's making a donation on their territory, which is just impossible for me. If I'm the host of the house, if this country is letting me host the house, so I guess as a host, I need to know what's going on in my field and it happens very often that people don't know anything about it. I say, it doesn't matter where in all BiH territory it happens. If this obligation had been done under Dejton, it couldn't have happened and it wouldn't have been so charming and it wouldn't have been so dissatisfaction, there would have been some uniform criteria at the state level, and you, it would never have been ideal, it's quite clear to me. But these even criteria, however, would be fairer and much more just, would be deployed throughout BiH's territory. If it had been done, it would have been impossible for it to happen that in Srebrenica today the condition is as it is where no one passed the exam, absolutely no one. I say this very responsibly, neither the BiH state, nor the RS, nor the Federation, nor the international community. No one here, that's where they all failed the exam. It's not just Srebrenica where it fell completely on the exam. There are a lot of other places like this, and that's why I think it's not too late to talk about this. That's one reason. The second reason I think this is a very important conclusion is next. In BiH, everyone is talking about corruption and it's some kind of wound cancer. Well, there's got to be corruption if there's no order. You understand. This condition is suitable for corruption. If they had the order to have the criteria that apply to the whole country, there would be fewer possibilities for malversions of various kinds. I say it would be much, much less. So, I'd have a lot to say about this report and about this next item in the next item of the agenda, but I thought it was important that I potential this thing and please don't, in the future, I don't know who's doing it, so don't go around this committee in the future. It doesn't matter who works in it. If she exists she should do her job and is it a college, is it the Council of Ministers, is it someone else, but I warn that this commission should not be skipped. Thank you. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7350	I'd like to thank Mr. Osman Brk for his esteemed representative. Rijeka has a respected representative, Mr. Đedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7351	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, gentlemen of the press, I will be very brief and I would like to make a suggestion to those who have done this material, and regarding this sentence, which is found to have left a large number of persons. We all know that. We know exactly how far it's gone, where it's come back, what's come back, but we don't have how far it's gone, where it's gone and what's gone. I suggest that the future materials of this nature also have this data to obtain through one parallel or a comparative real picture of the population's movements in, both within BiH and outside BiH. Just so much as a suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7352	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Đedović. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Senad Šarganović, and let the distinguished representative Mr. Malkić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7353	The information on the implementation of Annex VII of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH has been made comprehensively, fully, professionally with many indicators. I support information with a desire for a positive return trend to continue with a sustainable return and 100% safe and I would suggest two conclusions on the relationship. First, the Council of Ministers and the Bureau should launch a new initiative to hold a new donor conference dedicated to the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement on the recovery of refugees and displaced by providing the necessary information, background and data in the necessary means. The duty of Europe and the World Community is to continue to help BiH intensively, as BiH is the conscience of Europe and the whole world. I also suggest that the time until 31.12 be prepared for the conference and from 1 January to 20 January of the following year to be held. As far as Srebrenica is concerned, I propose that the BiH Parliament together visit Srebrenica together and at the port of the place be convinced of the problems and needs of Srebrenica.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7354	I thank the esteemed representative Mr. Sendu Šarganović. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Malkić, and let the honourable representative, Mr Franjo Majdandžić, be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7355	Ladies and gentlemen, in any case, it's a good thing we have at least information to see what's going on in the realisation of Annex VII or the Refugees and Displaced Persons Agreement. However, the fact is that this information does not reflect Annex VII as it is and does not cover everything that is stated in the Dayton Agreement and in particular aneks vi. Why I was the advocate of the agenda is the report on the realization of Annex VII. We inform 43 distinguished gentlemen only of the knowledge and are not determined next to it, nor is it ordering any conjunctivities after who was in charge to prepare a report on who is in charge of the realization of Annex VII. That's not the case with the report. The report must propose solutions and measures in the first year of improvement and normally complement me and seek the responsibility of those who have not done what they should or cannot do part of the work specified by aneks vi to the dejtonski Agreement. The report should, above all, include what we have done to create the right conditions for return. This is specified in Article 2. Agreement. It's just a little bit of information that's been skipped. It's not who our obligation is, it's someone else. I wanted to say a few words about how the property was returned. Dear gentlemen, you are witnessing the return of property these days, that's a fact. A decision on the return of property is being made, a person still cannot enter the property, reportedly needs to make a new decision on the implementation of the return decision. I understand if you need to make a decision on a decision, let's go as this property claim commission is popularly said... because they don't do a vegetable there and they don't make an introduction into property. However, if the municipality in Sarajevo or elsewhere makes decisions on the return of property, why should the OMI again need a solution to implement such a decision. I therefore suggest that we work in this direction to simplify the introduction into the possession of returnees. The information on the implementation of Annex VII to the Refugees and Displaced Persons Agreement has not been adequately touched on the role of the Commission, the property commission for displaced persons and refugees, which is specified by aneks vi, and in the second chapter of the Commission for displaced persons and refugees, Article 7.8.9 and the waste. I understand they're doing something, but to whom they'll report. If they have a duty to us, to the Ministry, and to us. We have no idea what they did, whose resources they spend, and how they spend it. The second question, also, of aneks vi in Article 9, provides for the establishment of an asset fund for refugees and displaced persons, if we cannot form it, to say it clearly and loudly that it cannot be formed for reasons of lack of funds and because we cannot provide the necessary assumptions for the functioning of that fund. In information, too, elaborated what we already know back 5-6 years ago and this is the return from abroad and other ones who have returned and someone else is returning, but we are not talking about what measures we will take that those who are here in the Federation area in which they are returned. We're not talking, nothing was mentioned about the reconstruction of municipal infrastructure facilities and everything else. Only one sentence said the base infrastructure stands for a return predition, but there is no one obliged to do it and especially what is important, you have witnessed stories both on television and other media on land allocation both state, social, private for individual housing and group housing. The information absolutely does not stand anywhere where it was assigned, how many payments were allocated, who assigned, what will the Commission at the state level which was formed for refugees and displaced persons, seems to me that it does not have the same authority as this property commission...to take in the direction, what will it propose to sanction and who have violated the decision on the allocation of land, the decision of the High Representative on the assignment of construction land. One sentence, something similar to what Đedović said, I will read it on page 18 of interest in return and a bold sentence, the last sentence stands, I think, I don't know what this sentence looks like. Whether the latest amendments to the property regulations brought by the High 44 representative for BiH and the expectations of their swift implementation will affect further increased interest in the return. Some hypothetical question that the informer asks himself, instead of saying we hope it will increase the rate of return, the issue of pure form arises. You want me to say that in eastern BiH, in the northeast part of the second month, third of October. In the municipality of Zvornik only 2,600 plots were distributed for individual Stumble construction, the municipality of Bratunac 600, not to list the rest, Srebrenica and Bratunac meet with the installation houses that are on private property to be moved. No Niko's taking any steps in the overall direction to get this out of... I therefore propose that this information be returned in the form of an update, that it be prepared to submit as a report with certain measures and data necessary for one valid image in the direction of the realisation of Annex VII of the Refugees and Displaced Persons Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7356	I thank Mr. Malkić's representative. Rijeka has a distinguished representative, Mr. Franjo Majdandžić, and let the distinguished representative of Mrs. Branislava Ferzanović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7357	The Honorable Chairman, respected MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I, looking at this table, is page six, so I would ask while Mr. Minister is here, I see there are two million and two hundred refugees that the status has been resolved in other countries, meaning, in acceptance of 390,800 as far as I understand and returned to BiH by 387,200. So we see one large population, these are, especially younger and others, who are lost to us, who live in other countries, because they're better off living there. So, do I understand that it's possible for a total of 22,000 to return this last number down here, which means there's still a chance to somehow do what needs to be done, to get those people back. I know a lot of cases in the Republic of Croatia, especially in the area of Okucan, Plavski, Vojnić and other such destinations, that there are many Hrvat, and there are others who would return to have the possibility of employment, existence in BiH, and I think that now there is some other phase, not only to solve the issue of home resolution, second and third and property issues, but it is to open these jobs, crafts, small businesses, fruit growing, livestock, crafts, etc. that will enable the existence and enabling people to return to many, many people. I've had some conversations with these people, and they'd like me to say, really accept it. I mean, can our ministry now, with the help of other structures, somehow accept these jobs? This is how I talked to Mr. Secretary, and I don't think they're doing it, our ministry this, that it's not in their business. All I need is for people to come back and get somebody to do it. In addition, we have these opportunities for use and other means. I spoke from Banja Luka with Caritas, the second, third, who have donor resources and the possibility of participation, but still needs help with the professional program, the second, etc. to operate on it. Now, can we now transform this ministry, so you see it's a complex job to do a little bit of work on it, not a little bit, but to do as long as it takes to get people back and to solve the issue of their existence and their employment. We even have, we have data that we have houses renovated in the area of Šimić, in the area of Ljubija, where simply people will not return because they have no friends, they have nothing to live on. He's in the country. He needs 45 help. He needs a tractor, to help him deal with cattle, to get some help, to help him out, to help him out, and to live from today to tomorrow, etc. Since this is what I'm saying, you see a complex question, I'd like to ask this ministry to come up with proposals. What are the options, I would say, there must be help on our part to make this complexly contained in order for people to come back and allow them to work, to be done, to be done, to exist, etc. Now we're going to be wondering how to deal with their employment when we have so much unemployment. I wouldn't look at it that way. If we want these people to come back, we'd have to say somehow find ways and opportunities to solve it that way, so I'd be praying for one of those answers, and I'd be looking at it from these conversations on the ground, and now as far as possible and how possible so if we can answer it a little bit today and see that somehow if we can move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7358	I thank the esteemed representative Mr. Franja Majdandžić. The word has a distinguished representative, Mrs Bransilava Ferzanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7359	My dear gentlemen, this report is comprehensive, and if we had a fuller idea of a state of refugees and displaced persons, I would be the only one to point out not a few things. Here, Mr Majdandžić has now said in this report that some 592 thousand people have come out, i.e. he has found another destination outside BiH, of which 390 has permanently solved and 220.000 are still looking for a solution to permanent eviction. So, if we're talking about the return of people to BiH, then it's usually nursing households that come back from both sides and RS and the Federation of BiH, or Brcko District. On the 34th, 35th and 36th, we have information on health insurance, i.e. on the Health Insurance Act, the Pension-Invalid Insurance Act, and I would like to talk about the funds, this social pension fund from the Sarajevo Fund, the Mostar Fund, and they have now united the Pension Insurance Fund of the disabled RS and only one characteristic sentence that is in this report. It is said that one of the most important things is that the agreement provides that pensions given in settlement sites are usually paid in another entity in a new place of residence, users anywhere in BiH. This is especially important for displaced persons, returnees. However, these improvements, pensioners continue to face difficulties in accessing their pension-inhabited rights and inability to enjoy secondary, social benefits that go with pension. Of these benefits, it is certainly among the most important health care. However, the problem is that there is no legal regulation that allows one pension fund to transfer health insurance contributions to another entity's pension fund. This is, I think, the biggest problem with all returnees, especially nursing households, and I suggest that one of the conclusions is that the Council of Ministers undertakes to propose with the Ministry of Social Policy and the Ministry of Displaced Persons health insurance laws at the level of BiH and pension- invalidity security, too, at BiH level.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7360	I thank the distinguished representative, Mrs. Ferzanović. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Lolić. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7361	Dear colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, I'm going to pass on some of the messages I've received these days, a tour of the territory from different citizens. I've put some of them here in the form of plowing questions, so I'd like to ask them later and get an answer. First of all, the general problem, I've been visiting the Predor region in particular these days, so, in all these places, where, indeed, a great return is taking place, the big problem is the health care of returnees and some fellow doctors from New Town have specifically pointed out to me that especially Bosniak children who now have quite still no health insurance issues and the question of vaccination of such children is a serious problem, because there is simply no record. You don't know where or if they're even receiving the vaccine. As a doctor, I can only warn that the child is unvaccinated in grave health danger. I would ask you to find some way to contact, let's say, allow the directors of health insurance funds to sit down and urgently resolve the issue of health insurance, because the same is the problem with Srbin who have returned to the Federation, in all these border areas, it is a shame that in their country man has no health insurance solved. Another question would be health insurance in general for all other citizens. Then I'd like to point out once again that the question of return is one thing, but the question of creating living conditions is another very important question. I was shocked the other day by everything I saw in Ljubia, it's one, really, dead city that has a terrible potential with that mine, but no one works there and then those who are there, those who need to leave or those who have come should stay, they're all miserable, because that city dies, and those who, unfortunately, there's a lot. Now I would especially like to point out three questions, because we are here all the time talking about a refund, but we know well that the Dayton Agreement gives two more possibilities, these are: first-time compensations and replacements. I would especially like to raise a question here, I'm asked by a group of citizens from Modrica. What about those who don't want to come back instead of an earlier stay having destroyed property? Is there even a way to make up for this damage, because we are all witnessing that the property is now being sold awake why, to some houses that used to be worth 300-400 thousand marks, they are being sold for 20 grand, that huge estates are being sold a Buddha why? Why we're povertying our people, who simply has no other solution. Here's what I'd like to do if we were to make a point so we could all look for a solution together. The second question is, is whether or not the property of those people who really don't want to come back might be recorded in some way, and that first there is some mortgage fund where, possibly, some mortgage loans could be taken and credited to people in places they chose as a place of life, because these people are really a problem. Secondly, it's about the return, a number of returnees are coming and there's one for me, a particularly endangered group, these are the dominant population, especially the families of fallen fighters, from either side. Here, the other day I had in Banja Luka a case that a woman with four kids was literally going out on the street. There is still a tragedy, the husband was a Srbin, died in the Republika Srpska women's Hrvatica and, simply, originating in Croatia, now cannot be returned there for understandable reasons and are literally on the street. No Niko in this country is trying to make at least some, at least temporary accommodation, some barracks of anything for these people, I think it might be a good idea to think about finding a solution for such people, and I'm eventually asked by the RS military pensioners' association. According to their records, about 600 apartments are being searched in the Federation. However, because of the very topics that we've had here, we've had a lot of problems about the cause of the war. 47 Many of these people simply cannot return their dwellings, it is a great property, and people are now coming out of their apartments in Banja Luka and in other cities, they cannot return property to the Federation, simply, no one will help them. The association is run by Colonel Jovo Vukobrat, a man who was born in the Sanhedrin Bridge. He lived his whole life in Banja Luka, was a member of the RS Army now becoming a social case. He has spoken to the Vldi RS several times, the National Assembly and no one has answered him, and I ask Mr. Zubak to try and put this issue with the entity ministers on the agenda, because the sixth apartment, I've calculated that the value of some 30-40 million marks is huge money and these people have big problems and, on the other hand, normally, to stop coming back, because these people who have their property can't get to it. They don't want to go out and then they're creating these problems, and on the other hand, it's blocking the return of some people to their apartments. I think this is a question that I just wanted to open up and find a solution there.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7362	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Lolić. Rijeka has the vice-president Mr Mirjanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7363	I must say, it is obvious that the information prepared by the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 29.4. exhaustively written with the intention to provide the first information. However, I always have words to choose from when official acts and official information are submitted to me. I'll point to a certain gap in this information. I'm not asking for an oral answer, but I appeal that in the future, when official acts are written, words are chosen. On page 40, the following is written in the subtitle of education, curricula and programmes. Despite some positive developments that have been made recently in order to levelise teaching plans and programmes at entity level, it can be assured that discrimination, segregation and bias continue to dominate BiH's education. These are gentlemen too harsh words. Those words can't be in any official act. They have to be backed up. We gentlemen have been admitted to the Council of Europe. One of the key conditions was school change. We have an official reception. Therefore, the official assessment that something like this does not stand in BiH. There are problems, but these are very, very rough words and I don't think there's anything like this that can be said for most of the educational workers in BiH, no matter what entity they live in. What to say is that educational workers, teachers and teachers, who are educated by young generations who know that most of the young generation is not looking for a solution in this country. He's looking in a country where he'll be able to get a job and provide his own existence and his family. Maybe that's what the gentlemen were supposed to be in that report. Maybe we're creating some new refugees. Perhaps this country is exposed to economic migration and this is the country's problems and its economy stands. Finally, I support what you wrote in the information, and that is that, there are declarations and an agreement on education in BiH, signed by the Federation and RS and the Federation of BiH resolution ministers, in which the authorities in both entities commit to removing offensive and ethnic central content from textbooks and school trials, which, without a doubt, is one of the obstacles to reintegration and return in general. This termology, I think, is appropriate to the official report, and that the termology is not appropriate to the official report of the BiH Council of Ministers. I urge that the words be applied in the future, because if 48 representatives of the International Community look at this, read it, then everything we've done and put into question in this session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7364	I would like to thank Mr Mirjanić, the esteemed representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Mašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7365	I truly apologize for going out again, I have no need, but I am really surprised by Mr Mirjanić that you are first as if you do not know what is going on in BiH territory, especially in the education system. Do you know that in the Federation day and today in Western Herzegovina, in South Herzegovina, Western Bosniaks go to one door entrance, Bošnjak students and Hrvat go to another door entrance. Do you know of the official website, the official website of RS, the RS government says that Republika Srpska is one of the smallest countries in Europe. You're surprised at that kind of thing. Really, I don't see any reason. It's supposed to say, you have to characterize all this even worse, because there's a worse situation on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7366	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Mašić, for the replica, the distinguished representative Mr. Mirjanić came forward.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7367	Mr. Messenger, you're a young man. Have respect for those who educate you, and who educate you, and who taught you to become one who can lead this country forward. When someone speaks ill of those who educate you, you try to show some of the attention they have shown to you. I will not accept that such an assessment can be given to my colleagues, no matter what nation they belong to, in which entity they live. They're having a hard time living today. Today, working in education means working for a small salary, having a series of problems, and no one has the right to question the moral and other dignity of these people. I'm not saying there's no problem. These phenomena that you were talking about, that students of one nationality enter one door, and students of another nationality at another door, these are sad phenomena, but you, especially as a young man, never let yourself question the heights of those people who have educated you and who probably continue to educate you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7368	I would like to thank Mr Mirjanić, the esteemed representative. Since there is no word, Mr. Borić has an honourable representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7369	Dear MPs, this information from the Council of Ministers is a finding that in this second year of a new millennium, huge people in BiH, unfortunately, have difficulty gaining the right to their own property and return and that they do not live in the full capacity of human rights in accordance with the European Convention, which, as we know, is the source of rights in BiH. That neither the equality that we speak of in this Parliament is just equality when spoken of in an effect. A huge number of 49 people, indeed, do not have the right to education in BiH to choose education. A huge number of people in BiH are not the first to choose a health care facility, a doctor. A huge number of people in BiH do not have the right to work based on life's happiness. Which, unfortunately, this information is consistent and we can't get away from it. What would be expected of this Council of Ministers and Ministers is to provide, point out how to strengthen it, how to strengthen it, because here I am thinking that there should be a unique methodology in BiH, which would concentrate all power on all energy, including our efforts for human beings, that the return to BiH finally should happen and that finally whoever returns should live in the full capacity of human rights in this BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7370	Thank you, Mr. Borić. Mr. Kulenović Salih.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7371	Ladies and gentlemen, I have carefully listened to this discussion about this item on the agenda and I have also carefully studied this information and I, when I read the title of this information, says it is information about the implementation of the Annex VII of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH, can be thought and God forbid it is as if Annex VII was realized. Perhaps a lexicon to say about the present realization of Annex VII or to say what a gentleman is, the Honorable Mr. Minister said it was from 31.12.2001. So, in my opinion, maybe that should have been specified in the title. It's very important. Furthermore, I am obliged to refer to this information and I can tell you that the information is complete and that, indeed, it provides a database and that you see the Ministry has databases related to this very complex process. But what you can see from these discussions, perhaps, I'm actually realizing that by working on this information, the Ministry has actually stuck to all this ingenuity. There was nothing else we could do in this information but just what it is, in fact, in the term of office of this ministry. What am I trying to say? This ministry has very small powers, very small powers and it is time for the state to assume responsibility and to assume on itself this very complex process of the overall return to BiH and the full implementation of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement, including everything we have heard today in segments. So, we should have thought a long time ago and it's high time today to figure out how and in what way the state really takes over everything on itself, about this, I mean, the most important thing in our country of BiH. In the end, I'd like to ask Mr. Minister, and I suggest, it would be a good idea that as soon as possible for these two or three months as he has said, that we should really be adept with a single report here to see what happened in 2002, at least in a few months, and then there's something here that maybe we should check and I think we can check it out on the ground. You know, we should now introduce one section to follow such indicators, and that's about real estate returns, introducing property. What happened during this, let's say the return by the entity authorities. It's just that when the real estate comes back, the first conclusion comes to mind and that conclusion comes to the owner and no one ever introduces any possession. There's a whole other situation on the turret. That's one thing. Until, for example. It's not the case with the flats. There's a record to be made, so if he misses that impactor, it's listed in the record. However, when introduced into real estate, only paper is given. The one who makes that conclusion and doesn't go with that owner. There's someone else in there who's overstepped, there's someone else who's taking the water, there's someone else who's using that property, etc. And what's going on. Somewhere off the record, they're giving this poor return to court. Don't tell him in court 50 more that he's accusing that neighbor or someone else. Let's get rid of it systemically. I've had so much about it, and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7372	Thank you. Gspodin Buturović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7373	I'll be very brief. I fully understand Mr. Minister and all the honor of the work he's done. Within the framework of the ministry in the Council of Ministers again, I think that as long as the state doesn't function in the whole area, until the Council of Ministers has the right to rule the entire area, we will hardly make a move in any area. You see, last time I submitted the resolution on woodwork. You can see the problems of the returnees in terms of health care. That's a big problem. This cannot be solved by an unnecessarily general strategy at the state level. Here, let the minister, it can't be partially solved. The question of returnees, here in my community downstairs, is that we and what comes back all 70-80 years old. Come back old and sick. Just come back. It's not health care, it's also social, health and medical cases, etc. and we don't have an institution for what accommodations of geriatrics, socials, etc. Cultivation symptoms are weak, small, too expensive for this type of therapy, i.e. treatment. We're falling further and further into the deep, so that we can't keep what we have more and more to go down. The aids will be getting smaller and it is expected to continue to be less, because our interest in us is falling more and more from the world. Don't think that someone thinks about us and we don't think about ourselves. Please, when we start thinking about ourselves very seriously, and let him say we'll wait for the election, what we'll do, we'll have to do, man. The election will come and a new one will pass. As long as we do not realize that we are involved in the wheel of European integration, by including in various integration processes from this to that, while we are starting that wheel, so we cannot be members of either the Council of Europe or the European Parliament, etc. We've come to the Council of Europe. Well, you'll see later. We don't even have a delegation to the Council of Europe. We haven't met... the conditions etc. So we have to do a lot of work. I'm not saying it's not good. I say that's great. We must be aware that only we can change the situation and that only if we turn around to change this situation will the international community help us, because when it sees that there is an active one who really wants better and only better then it will push. If he sees that we're uninterested and it's just like that so let it go, I guess one of us will come sometime who'll be interested. Here's what we're talking about is getting people back from abroad. We have a crowd of people going abroad. Here's the Youth Parliament that's been told here has data, 62% of the youth wants to go outside. So please, it's... that Mr. Mirjanić is talking about here, we're left with an old country. Then what? There goes the brains. We've got to get those brains back. We've talked before, we don't just need a high representative to say it. Let's bring back the capable people here who have gone outside. Let's get them back. We need someone to say this and that. The Committee on European Integrations is putting up with the resolution,...now we need someone to say we need it, so we keep saying we should. I say, to finish, maybe it's broader in context,...the minister and we all have to help each other together to create a functional and efficient state, functional authorities, and that all together leads to one result. As long as we don't change it in our heads, it's hard to do anything more than report this way and then a series of problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7374	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for word? Here you go, Mr. Mirjanić. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7375	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished colleagues, I listened very carefully. In principle, I agree with all the exhibitions, I just don't know how honest we are, and I don't think we're being honest and that we'd need to talk more honestly and do something more than punch ourselves in the chest forever, and we don't actually have anything. Because you see the report, what Mr Mirjanić said, made certain suggestions, to say, which I fully agree with, and I would like young Mr Mašić to be present. Look, I'm in favor of harmonising regulations... programs. Indeed, all children, indeed, regardless of gender, nation, faith, social status, etc. They go to one class, but that's why it takes at least one precondition. To speak the same language. Unfortunately, they're not talking, and I noticed you've just changed your language. I've had as many colleagues as you want around Tuzla, they didn't talk like you. I don't argue with you to talk however you want, but unlike... A Francuz. In France, everyone speaks one language, and in BiH, we want to be rich, we have five, and we want everything in one class. Now, gentlemen, let me just warn you, I don't mind, don't let me open up some discussion right now, but I can't stand up for something once and hit my chest another time for something that's incompatible with why you stood up for it earlier. I would like to be alone, and I am convinced that as rational as we are, and the less we punch into the chest and yell behind the pay phone, and practically well we are working on the benefit of the citizens that we will have far greater success and that BiH will, too, swear that in that case I will have a far greater chance.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7376	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7377	I just want to suggest three conclusions in the direction of finishing this information so that it is comprehensive. Namely, that the Ministry of Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum or the Council of Ministers first programme to implement Annex VII of the General Peace Agreement with the balance of use, normally on the basis of requests for return, then by means of resolution and priorities and a proposal to help returnees. We, if you remember, once here were arguing about, see if there was anything we could do about it. The second conclusion, i.e. other information to follow on this basis, is a report or information. This allows for the possibility of reporting or information on the number and location of individual housing payments with a proposal for measures or as follows, for the purpose of formulating. Information on the number and place of violation of OHR's decision to implement the decision on property laws. That's conclusion two. Conclusion three. I think we should send a report from here, I don't remember, on the Commission's work on displaced persons and refugees, or CRPC. The fact is that we don't have their report and by the Dayton Agreement, they're, uh, forming an asset fund, in that direction, to do a dodgy of this information for the next period that we have that kind of data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7378	Thank you. Is anyone answering her word? I apologize Mr. Ljubić is not here and I will hold the session until he comes under his authority. We gentlemen have completed the dispersion of 52 on point 18. Information on the realisation of Annex VII. We got a notice from the Council of Ministers. Would you like a word, sir? Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7379	Just one little comment. I thank you for all the comments and suggestions we've heard. I'd just like to say that this is a picture of the situation. She's not good at all, she's not pretty. We wanted to point to positive trends. We really do have positive trends, at least when it comes to a few facts. That it has been more than ten years since the start of the war conflicts in BiH. That it has been six years since the treaty was signed, but there is still a will to return. There is a will and there is an interest in growing and greater people to return to those areas and areas where such an interest has not been achieved so far. That's what they are, so-called. minority vomit. That's what encourages it. There is a will for people to return and there is an improved security, political and any other situation. It's far from good, but it's improved and we want to point to positive trends. It wasn't our intention to make this better, it was our intention to point to positive trends that encourage it. When it comes to some remarks and suggestions given to us. I thank Mr. Kulenović, there were still representatives who, in fact, said that we have no authority to address those issues that are of direct importance for refugees and help to return and in such a situation as the Ministry of the State Commission for Refugees and displaced persons because we have launched a whole series of resolution issues that are of direct interest to return and, in this part of the material you have seen. It is not in our jurisdiction that health and education, or pensions or social protection, but through the commission we have raised these issues or the harmonisation of property laws, we have raised these issues, let's say, the competent persons of the entity in which they are competent and have reached some areas and agreements. We've come, a health care agreement has been signed, but unfortunately, we've now got observations from the field, people are writing us regrets they can't, they don't have what the agreement has accepted and signed, and that's the problem now. We can't call anyone responsible in an entity, you signed an agreement and you don't make a deal. These are the shortcomings that have already been discussed. We don't have the authority of us as this ministry in the event of a refugee return. We don't have the kind of intelligence we need to create the environment and conditions for people to return without talking about creating conditions for employment. So, this is an objective situation, and according to the Constitution and according to our wish, there is a desire and a willingness to accept the management of the processes of return to the Ministry of State, because the result of this and that they recognize in the international community that the post, that the primary initial capacities in the ministry have already been established, remains the interest of the international community to support the return through reconstruction and reconstruction, well, here I hope that there will be particularly favourable loans, but I don't want to talk a lot about it and make any promises, even special favourable loans for the construction of apartments, especially when it comes to young people via the Stability Pact. So far, the international community has not wanted to participate in a fragmented asset fund, because it has so far not recognised the willingness and will of state institutions, the Entitiatic institutions to work together. Now they recognize that will, the political will, recognize and see that we are pooling efforts and resources, that we are blushing together on this, and they especially want this job to pass on to us insurrection. We're ready to take over, and we have constitutional authority. And in that direction, a trend has taken place, but in order to give jurisdiction, this ministry is to regulate the law on the Council of Ministers and determine what is the real jurisdiction of this ministry. It's not that I'm misunderstood, it's not that it's a replica of someone's discussion, it's really a state of mind. We're not running away from it. In terms of return to land, i.e. building on this social, former social land, etc. We started this work through the commission and we set out the recommendations and I think that 53 of these recommendations came to Parliament, the Presidency, the governments, etc. that they support these recommendations through the competent institutions and that is what we can do. We can go on with the mines. It's not in our jurisdiction. We've been looking for, we've lost a lot of time to get the information from the municipalities as much as it's been assigned, they're not going to give data and we don't have the instruments to force someone to do it, it's not a lack of our will and our desire to do it, we simply don't have all the data and elements to do one such analysis, and we've started the job and in the information it's said something, but we've done one step in that sense, which we've established recommendations and finally come up with when it comes to the intrinsic entity ministries to the conclusion that we have to do it, and now there's just two concepts. One concept to change entity laws in the area or to pass at BiH level a law that will first regulate the issue so far... As far as this ministry is concerned, we can take this job, but if you give us the basis, if you give us this as a task and that there is no question of whether there is a constitutional basis, etc. We'll do that job. So is the state of both the Constitution and the mood. There are different concessions, different views on how to resolve this issue. One more thing. When it comes to the property fund, it is very likely that, already the European Union has examined our capabilities, capacities and we will begin to take over and implement the Kars programmes... and show willingness to participate in this joint fund, etc. Indicators... that I don't imagine that we are anything special, but, well, we seem to have given some of the signals positively to the international community that we can take this process into our own hands and run these processes in that sense we think we're going to get the support of the international community. We don't have, to be clear, we don't have enough resources and opportunities to do it ourselves. When it comes to Srebrenica in the means of information, something has already been said. Three projects are now being done. Two projects involving the state ministry and two entity ministries, and I hope by the end of the month that one project that will be realised... will be realised. The second project is the holder of the Ministry of Refugees of the RS and in which the state ministry is participating and federally, we think it will soon be completed, firsted, and the third one is going a little outside of us, which is started, and this is the conference that was held in New York under the auspices of the UNDP and which is due to begin to be realized at the end of this year, but that part is, I'm telling you, it went partly beyond our status and beyond our participation in that. But these two projects will be implemented, we'll get them first and they'll be realized. When it comes to other problems and education and education, pensions and secondary social benefits, we know about these problems. We're only able to launch the research process to meet them to come and sign the agreement. He can't go any further than that. I'm asking you to keep that in mind. So it's not our lack of will or willingness to do it, but simply, the existing legal regulations and constitutional solutions don't allow us to get into those areas anymore. Otherwise, despite all this and a bad picture of the situation, so we have positive trends and I think that we are going to be able to realise this problem of refugee returns, at least in those basic elements, if we go at this pace over a period of 2-3 years. That's it. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7380	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for the additional information you have given to the House of Representatives and for the consideration of questions, ideas, suggestions presented in the debate at the House of Representatives. What we can do as a House of Representatives, since it was about information is this. To deliver, to accept first, or to receive knowledge of the information that has come to us, which has been sent to us by the Council of Ministers. There is no vote on information, to deliver a stenogram from the meeting to the Council of Ministers, or to the resolution ministry. The encouraging words of Mr. Minister who showed good will, understanding of all the proposals that have been made here, that we should take a brief look at what can be done and then send that stenogram to the Council of Ministers, i.e. to the Resoring Ministry and there is an obligation of the Council of Ministers, to report regularly to the House of Representatives on the application of Annex VII. By doing so, gentlemen, point 18 would be completed. Mr. Amidžić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7381	I apologize, so I wouldn't want to take much, I didn't answer for the debate, and I'm taking a lot of time. I apologize that this is not in accordance with our normal work, i.e. the rules of the Rules of Procedure. But, Mr. Chairman, if we have decided and you decide to refer to the Council of Ministers a stenogram from today's debate if it is also a regular practice I didn't know both the decision and the will of this session today, I would only say one sentence so let it be found as an idea to the Council of Ministers what I think is the problem. It's all about... resources, ideas and projects. Imputations are missing here. Where are the BiH impulses in this sphere? Imputations are in co-operation with the Republic of Croatia and the SRJ, the impulses are in regional co-operation and the impulses are in European integration and, among other things, in partnership for peace, and we are the ones who influence BiH's accession above all. I therefore advocate that it be a request for the Council of Ministers and the Presidency to put a little bit of speed on these affairs to find the will and means for this return through these integrations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7382	Thank you, Mr. Amidžićuna, for the extra ideas. There is no doubt the Council of Ministers will appreciate all this. We heard the minister. Everyone has a good will. We've done this point with this. Moving to the next point. Ad.19. The information on the situation in the field of immigration and asylum in BiH has been sent to us by the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of RES, but we contact the Council of Ministers, which refers to the period from 1.01.2001 to 31.12.2001. Before I open the issue for Mr. Krešimir Zubak's resolute minister. Mr. Minister, do you want to contact Dom about this information, because you're a signer of information? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7383	I'll be as brief as possible. The information provides a situation in this area, again with 31.12.200, and if we compromise with the situation we had in the previous period, it's undeniable that we are the problem... but surely we are overcoming it. The problem is definitely not resolved in BiH. 55 BiH will not come down from a list of countries through which, or at the top of those countries through which these immigration, human trafficking, women, etc. are being carried out. until we have established all the institutions of the system that BiH needs to have. We took a whole series of measures in the previous year that resulted in improvement of the situation, but the main and basic reason for improvement is, strengthening the State Border Service. As long as it is not completely institutionally ugly and able, we will still have what is happening to BiH, in fact, only one station on the way of immigrants or one place where human trafficking, women and children is being done. We, in order to improve the situation in this area, have changed the visa regime and it has given effect. You can see that now the number of people who come to BiH legally is radically reduced, and then leave BiH illegally. We also reduced this significantly because, according to our assessment, we introduced a landa chart, which is filled in when entering or arriving in BiH via the airway. But the main problem we've been facing is the problem of our own indeterminateness and contradictions in our existing immigration and asylum law. Since this problem has been identified, we as a ministry have been given the task of accessing amendments and additions to the law, but when we have started this job, in fact, we have found that we need to make such a number of amendments and additions that, in fact, this would not be changes and additions, but would be a new law and these days we are preparing a very whole, new law on immigration and asylum, under which the Council, I believe at the next session of the Council of Ministers will take a position, which provides that a special service will be established within the Ministry to monitor the situation in this area, the office of movement, the stay of foreigners and immigration will be established, therefore, one institution that will not require any larger or special means, but through which we will be able to monitor the situation in this area throughout BiH. If such a law gets support in this parliament in the Council of Ministers, I think that if it gets such support for this Parliament and if no questions are raised, is it necessary and necessary for us, I believe, that we will then, by the reputation of other countries that have such services, or institutions, give this problem successfully, quite successfully in BiH. If there are questions, I'm willing to answer, but from this data that you're presented here, the measures and activities we've predicted and that we've realized, you see that the results are positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7384	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The account is indeed exhausted. Tables are given, in one modern way are given and data. It's possible to conduct an argument. Please, who's answering for the word? Gosodin Lolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7385	Since we started today's session with a series of attacks on the Council of Ministers justifiably, I would now like to change the board so that I can justifiably direct one, indeed, confession to Mr. Zubak and his ministry, and this has already, seems to have become a practice that in this area of immigration, asylum works very well. I want to be the head of this delegation at the OPS Parliamentary Assembly to commend them and for our previous departure they have prepared us very well so that we have had a good performance. Since we are preparing from the 6th to the 10th to go to Berlin, where the main topic will be to counter terrorism as a global challenge in the 21st century, where, among other things, terrorism, its impact on women, then 56 terrorism and its connection to immigration will be discussed. I'd like to say first that you've done very well with this document. What I particularly like about what you have a vision as well, I would like to refer one proposal to page 18 where it says project realization, you have acceptance and fulfillment, deportation of illegal migraines in BiH, then, asylum centre, building a safe house, and in particular the establishment of a regional centre for illegal immigration. It would be good if your assistant was in a meeting with our delegation yesterday to maybe make up one, let's say an appeal, which our delegation will direct to request the support of all the countries, all 55 countries, especially for this 4th point establishment of the regional centre, because we've already started something, but this time it could be one resolution. We're due by Monday, and maybe it wouldn't be bad if we put it together to send it, and then we'll ask some of the countries that we've supported so far to support us. I think it would be a good political support and would help our delegation perform well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7386	Thank you, Mr. Lolić. Is anyone else answering for word? No, I don't. It's over at Rasprva. So we had a debate on information on the situation in the field of immigration and asylum in BiH territory. Since it's information, we're receiving it. I think the Resort Ministry will assess Mr. Lolić's instructions and instructions. We're going to the next item on the agenda. That's a bit of a tough spot. Ad.20. The election of members and deputy members of the Parliamentary Assembly delegation in the Council of Europe, since this point, I would like Mr. Lubić to be chaired by Mr. Sead Avdić, the stricter vice-president, you know I am the younger vice-president, to make a joke, I suggest that we do not waste time, if you agree to move to point 21. Giving consent to ratification and when they come to us, then we move on to point 20. I wish they were here. Since we've had an upheaval at the Expansive College, they need to be there, too. So we have point 21. Ad.21. Giving consent to ratification (a) of the Agreement on the Promotion and Protection of Investments between BiH and the SRJ We have received an agreement. The Minister of Resorship is here. Thank you for coming. I'm opening a dispersion. Is anyone answering for a word? Resort Minister, does he want to speak to us? I don't think there's any need, it's all written. Thank you. I vote on who is in favour of the agreement, giving for ratification of the agreement on improving and protecting investment between BiH and the SRJWho is in favour? I ask Mr. Bogić to sit in his seat and voice. I'm like Mr. Ljubić completely taken over the dictionary. Thank you. I'd like a voter's report. 34 present for 34 unanimous. There's no need for an entity vote. 57 b) The Amending Agreement to the Loan Treaty dated 2 November 2000 between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and BiH Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. Done at first. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Nobody. 34 MPs voted – 34 for. Unanimity. c) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on international road transport of passengers and goods I am opening the debate. Who's answering for a word? Niko. I'm closing the debate. I ask the MP to state who's in favour. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Unanimity. I'd like a voter's report. 34 MPs voted, of which 34 were adopted unanimously. d) The agreement between BiH and the SR of Germany on encouraging and protecting each other investments I don't think a comment needs how important this is for BiH. I'm opening a dispersion. Who's answering for a word? Niko. - I'm closing up the dispersal. I ask the MPs to plead. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Niko. I'd like a voter's report. Of the 34 MPs who voted 34 for it. I find it unanimously adopted. e) I am opening a debate on the establishment and functioning of cultural centres between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Jovanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7387	I'll take it for a while. It seems to me that we once refused to verify this protocol because it had not been verified or signed by the current Presidency and the current Council of Ministers. In this memo we got, so there's nothing that's changed, so it's all from '99. A year. Thus, it was not signed by either the current Bureau or the current Council of Ministers. So I don't see what's changed now compared to what was last time. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7388	Thank you, Mr. Jovanović. Who else is answering for a word? Niko. I'm closing the debate. I ask the MPs to declare, therefore, the Protocol on the establishment and functioning of cultural centres between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey. Who's in? He started the voting process and there's no one from the Foreign Ministry. Who's against it? Who's being held back? I'd like the results of the vote. It takes an entity vote. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Thank you. Who's from RS for? Two for if I see it right. We've got three for it. Mr. Spasojević, Malkić and Majdandžić. I'd like a voter's report. For RS 3a from the Federation of BiH 23. They didn't get the entity majority. We need a match. Thank you. f) Credit agreement between BiH and OPEC – Development of livestock and rural financing project I am opening the gap. I'm closing the debate. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I'd like the result of the vote. 34 MPs voted – 32 for – 2 against. There's no need for an entity vote. I find that adopted, too. Gentlemen, this is where we ended point 21. We've got two more points. Mr. Ljubić didn't send a message, so please let's take a break. He'll be back in 20 minutes. I suggest, if we can finish with point 22. I think we can do that, because we had a deal today at the Expansive College where, if I recall correctly, all the club chiefs, and that's the 22nd proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of a temporary commission to prepare amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Representative's House. Gentlemen of the club chiefs, I'll try to say what it is, I think it's agreed today, if I make a mistake, please start me up. It is agreed, therefore, to form a provisional committee for the preparation of amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. In such a way that each club of MPs delegates one of its members to that committee and that we respect the fact that there are independent MPs who are not in any club. We don't want them to be expelled from this commission's chest. We want them to participate to the fullest extent, and then today it's agreed that, I think there are four independent MPs to be members of that committee, with each club delegating one, that's seven clubs, a total of 11 members. That was the position of the enlarged college. Isn't that right, gentlemen from the clubs? Did I say something wrong? Can we accept it that way and set a five-day deadline for clubs to deliver the names of those who will represent them on the committee. Four independent MPs, Mr Ljubić, Mr Banjac, Mr Baković and Mr Đedović. There'd be four of them. 59 Yes, but you don't have a club, Mr. Baković. You represent HDZ, but since you're not a member of the club, we wanted you all to participate, so we didn't want to exclude anyone, and that's why we would go for automation. It's a club chief's deal and it's not mine. The club chiefs agreed, he was Mr. Bogić. Mr. Bogić talked about it. So there won't be a vote. It's a consensus. It's an early group.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7389	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I think this is the agenda point and we have reason to even discuss these issues. So, I called in for a discussion. Let me note for a reason some shortcomings in the preparation of this agenda item. So, when the representative comes out with a conclusion, at least it's in a few previous sessions, then you tell him to write a conclusion, write down what the commission or body will do according to the Rules of Procedure, call on deadlines, the number of people in that commission, etc. Therefore, I would suggest to the College and the Service that, in future, when gentlemen go to these points of the agenda, we have at least one page of the text. It could have been from the College, if you... I won't speak at all. So one page of the text could be defined in terms of a deal with that extended college, that's an observation. However, because of the importance of the job that needs to be done, I support the adoption of this conclusion today, but to define at least how many people it is. It's not said, four independents and clubs were said one by one and no number was said. That number is additionally recalculated. We need to figure out how many and so many right now. It's not a constant number. Here, give me a conclusion how many board members count? I would suggest saying the commission counts so many and so many members. I'm the number. Second, look out, what does independent mean? I'm not getting into it. I'm not getting into it, but from one political option you have two independent men representing, and that's where they'll both get in and out of one club where you have ten people will enter one. I suggest, then, that these independents be represented by one as clubs, let's treat them, and I suggest we set a deadline, that is, to determine today's names and following that conclusion in front of the HDU, I propose Mr. Grabovac as a member of this committee. Have the presidents of these clubs say the names immediately. Therefore, we do not need additional time for five days, and I suggest that the five-day deadline for the commission to meet and start working for the first time and write it in the conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7390	Thank you, Mr. Amidžić. I have to realize that something doesn't work in some clubs. If an agreement is reached by club bosses, then it is no longer a problem for the College to provide information within the clubs. This is not an objection to any club chief or objection to any club so they don't get it wrong, but in a parliamentary life, it's normal for club bosses to agree that it's almost done, because the club manager speaks for the club, no matter what I'm talking about no club or club chief in particular. So, there were words, we're not talking about Mr. Grabovac. I'm not talking about you, Mr. Grabovac. I'm not talking about you. That's what Mr. Bogić says. We have today agreed to be a farce of each club – seven clubs that are seven people and these four MPs. That 60 would be a total of 11 and that's today's club boss deal. Of course, the House of Representatives can step down from the agreement of club bosses that's not the problem. It's a matter of the House, but such an arrangement has been reached and please it's not a proposal from the College of Three Members, it's a proposal from an extended college that sits in a tight college plus all the club heads. Who's calling? Mr. Grabovac, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7391	Mr. Chairman, the truth of the matter is that Mr. Amidžić was the first to say that this item of the agenda was not prepared. Secondly, I'm making a correction to one that you said was the agreement of the club bosses which doesn't match the truth, because I wasn't, me and Mrs. Bahrija went away as representatives of the clubs when it was. So that can't be the decision of an extended college. No one informed me later. So I didn't know about it at all, and it was in the first place when he said that the point should have been prepared with a certain exact number of commissions to count, or how many people would be designated and whether it would be every representative of a club and whether they would be representatives of the independent representatives who are here and I don't think it's right for all of them to go in independent and the clubs to give one. Then the simplest thing was to make it an extended college so he could prepare it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7392	It's possible, too. Thank you very much. Mr. Grabovac, we didn't notice that you left the session today before the end, and maybe that's the problem. Here you go. Ggospodin Baković.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7393	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, I've come out to give you a hand and say one thing. The HDZ Club has been here since recently as they said. The HDU Club was founded. The Democratic Union. I don't know by the first and parliamentary codes whether this club as such can live. But regardless, I'm not an independent representative, I'm HDZ's representative, and since I don't represent a club, or I'm not in front of a club that doesn't really defact and dejour, then I don't get into this combination by any other option. So, please, let me sleep peacefully.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7394	Thank you very much, Mr. Baković. Mrs. Osmanović Bahrija.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7395	In the best interest of at least making a deal without making it more complicated, however, I will come up with a proposal on behalf of the Mixed NHI Club, the Democratic Trak of Pensioners and the Bosnian Patriot Party propose Halil Mehtić as a member of this commission and ask others to make such a statement. There's no reason for us to be complicated, this can really go away, because it's supposed to be working on the Provodnik. Thank you. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7396	Thank you very much for your constructive proposal. I'm asking the clubs to propose delegates. Avidic SDP. Mr. Cuplop proposes on behalf of Club Zacirgić Emina, SDA Malkic, I did not hear SDS Club Mr. Miloš Jovanović, Club SNS,... and other Mirjanić. Which club didn't he propose? I'd like further suggestions. Is there a club he didn't propose to his representative? Mr. Đedović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7397	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, I have also heard today that I am an independent MP. I am in front of the Democratic People's Community of BiH. There are MPs here, or options or parties that can't form a club themselves and can be a mixed club HDZ, DNZ, to get a man in front of that group into that body, I can understand it, but more games words can't and I ask that you keep that in mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7398	Please, the national structure must be satisfied. HDU didn't suggest anyone. Yes, it is, Grabovac. Please, I was quick to count 4 Bošnjak, 4-3 Srbin – 1 Hrvat, that's 8. You should have another Hrvat. Mariofil Ljubić, good. Now we have gentlemen I think nine. The mixed club proposed Mehtić. We have 4 Bošnjak – 3 Srbin and 2 Hrvat. You got it. I think we've satisfied the national structure. We've got nine. Underneath nine we can't have, we shouldn't have and we can. You shouldn't, because the commissions have a rule nine. I'll read it. Mixed Club Mr. Mehtic, SDP Mr. Avdić, Party for BiH Club Mrs. Zaciragic, SDA Club Mr. Malkić, SDS Club Mr. Jovanović, PDP Club, SND etc. Mirjanić, Mr. Banjac, Mr. Grabovac HDU and Mr. Ljubić. So we have, we have to take care of everything – 4 Bošnjak – 3 Srbin – 2 Hrvat. I haven't been able to see the entity deal. We did. We also have an entity. If I'm wrong, go ahead. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7399	I'm sorry, there are three questions, first correction of the wrong quote. Please, Article 15. The Rules of Procedure say representatives' clubs are set up by at least three MPs. This is point 2. Nowhere does it say when and nowhere does it say from which political parties. It may be three MPs of any political option but agree to be one club. So he says very clearly. Nowhere does it say that it must be from the same political option or that it can only be at the first constitutive session and that it can't be later. It's this correction. So it's a false allegation, or business intervention. Secondly, allow an additional explanation of why I insisted immediately on names. Because at last session of the House of Representatives, and I didn't want to intervene, when an investigative committee was formed for Mostar, among other things, some other people were proposed. I suggested to Mrs. Bahrija instead, and in the record we entered the colors. I've accepted to be in the election commission, but I'll never vote for the chairman or anyone writing without finally saying yes and saying it's the election commission, and that's the one and that's the one that you agree with. I claim, take the stenogram that a failure was made in the last session when the election committee was formed, because no names of people were clearly identified. I don't want to intervene. I'll accept that it's as it is written in the record, but I think it's only the right thing to do for business 62 that every time any bodies are formed, they have to show their name and name, the composition of that body, the number of people, and at the end of the third question that I want to point out. We gentlemen had a conclusion at home to do so by 15.4. We also sent initiatives and proposals, among other things, I later sent a proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure. I will agree to withdraw that proposal if this committee will sit down quickly and normally work as it is done in one parliament and if you are set a deadline. If we do not set a time limit for her today when she will be sitting down to prepare for the Rules of Procedure, then we will do nothing. We don't need that conclusion, and we don't need that commission. Here, I suggested for the first session five days. But I suggest that by the next session of the House, we have proposals for amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, at least they, so we won't adopt him at nine months or eleven, because he won't be here. All right, then I'll insist on that protraction of mine another way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7400	You're right about the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Damir Mašić picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7401	I'll, for a while, really, have nothing against Mr. Banjac. Which is why he himself has the privilege of finding himself next to a proposal from all the clubs to get him on that list. The one who's an independent MP is his problem. I don't see any reason, or you can't make it a commission, I'm not just thinking about you. That commission doesn't seem to be able to function without Mr. Banjac. Everyone gave it up and he's the only one left on the list, and I wonder who suggested it at all. Can't SDS suggest your candidate and Mr. Banjac. Let him be warned, if they prefer Mr. Banjac, then they should withdraw Mr. Miloš Jovanović's candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7402	Thank you, Mr. Mašić. We have a proposal here that has nine members. According to Poslovnik, the commission should have nine members. We have both a balanced entity and a national composition.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7403	We have a surplus from the RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7404	Yeah, but we used to go to clubs.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7405	The entity doesn't agree with us.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7406	In what way, please say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7407	We have from RS Banjac, Mirjanić, Jovanović and Malkić. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7408	Suggest from someone else's SDA. Then there are no Srbin then the national parity has been violated. It's best if you suggest a Bošnjak from the Federation. We have a proposal here, I'm asking you that if you can solve the SDA club, if you can't put us to a vote so what happens? Who suggested it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7409	Boro Bjelobrk is from the Republika Srpska Federation has a surplus.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7410	Please, we don't have a national balance. Here you go, Mr. Bilbija. A man does not plead either as a Srbin or as a Hrvat or as a Bošnjak. You have to make sure you don't have a balance with Mr. Bjelobrk.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7411	Dear gentlemen, I think we really, really don't know whose idea it was anymore, long ago we've been working this morning since 9:00, suggested that everyone be included in the amendments to the Rules of Procedure and Parliament clubs and independent candidates and those MPs who are members of a party who haven't organised a club. I believe there is no reason for Mr. Banjac and Mr. Ljubić not to be on the committee. I don't think there's any problem here. If the problem is Mr. Malkić SDA within can agree. All right, here's your suggestion and you plead. When you come out ten times for a pay phone, you're always right and I'm not going out once. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7412	Please, we didn't solve it. We'll make a motion to vote. I keep wanting to come up with a proposal that can get the congregation majority. If you think the solution is to make a proposal so he doesn't get the congregation majority, then we're wrong. We don't have time. Let's get to the commission that gets the majority of the assembly, that's my goal. Here you go. Mr. Šarbanović. You'll get your word. Don't be mad.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7413	I don't think there's any need for us to develop the situation here for nothing. Here, why? That's where people are going to work, and now we're arguing about who people are going to be and that's where they're going to work. Does it even matter who people are? Yes, it is. I believe in everything and one MP who wants to make that Rules of Procedure. Now we're warming up about something around nothing. I suggest we relax the atmosphere, put it down where it should, where the extended college has agreed to complete this job simply and efficiently and to work and Mr Amidžić was within the right time limit for some to agree to be effective. This is a really simple question. The question is people loved that job and whether it's going to work.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7414	Mr. Stokić is angry with me. Here you go, sir. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7415	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't see any reason why we're trying so hard to say about this composition. It is a very important way for the commission to work. Will she vote, how will decisions be made? There will be a number of proposals, probably counter-proposals, and when do you have two counter-proposals in such a committee that will come here to the House? He wants to vote. If it's going to vote, then it's up to you to take care of who's representing who. One man cannot, for example, from the SDP who has nine MPs has the same voice as an independent MP. Then it's not correct, but if there's only a set of proposals, so we'll all have the opportunity to suggest, then we should include every man or party through a representative or an independent MP, or we have two three people who are party representatives and only have one representative, so they're not at the club. Allow all these people to attend the work of this committee. If this brings together a set of these amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which we will finally finally accept here, in the end we may not accept some things. In the end, he must receive congregation support. So if this is going to go, it's not so important that neither the national composition nor the entity composition, that they be constructive proposals and that those people who know the Rules of Procedure come in. So I'd say Mr. Banjac, he had a chance to really know the Rules of Procedure. I wouldn't get involved because there's a lot, I know something from that Rules of Procedure, I haven't taught him in detail for this period. I think that's what we need to accept. People who will and will decide this way are enough from each party one by one and all independent candidates and all these people such as Mr Baković, Đedović and others to have the right to give their opinion, and Parliament will eventually adopt what most of us think deserves to enter these changes.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7416	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Mr. brkati. I say it's not a dispute.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7417	I'll take a minute. I know of every work when something needs to be done should have some standards of some sort. I don't know where you came from this morning that every MP, an independent individual, should be on the committee. You don't need a brother. Why? Because the work of all committees is public. So, if he has an objection or a proposal for a commission that is constructive, he has the right to come and not be a member of the commission and to say gentlemen I have a proposal to do so in the Rules of Procedure. Why would anyone dare that he has to be because he's addicted, because he's alone. I don't see the reason, precisely because the commission's work is public and everyone has the right to come and propose a proposal. I wouldn't be much of a slave to it, where who's from, uh, the Brcko District has no one. I'm just so the district can be represented, there's a doctor who says he's not capable. Yes, it is. I won't admit there's an MP here who can say I don't know the Rules of Procedure and I can't do it. Someone to the soul more someone less, but he's capable. Why wouldn't the doctor be able to do that? hoći I'm saying is that every single MP, an independent MP, has to be on that committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7418	Mr. Neimarlija, please. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7419	The honourable MPs, since we still have the time to come to the chairman, here I have decided to make a small contribution to this debate, which at first seemed unnecessary, because, I fear, in the first wave, we understood this as a purely technical matter and, please, it is understandable to understand the application of this delegation's election to MPs who are going to work and that each of the MPs who are willing to work to make their contribution should be on the commission and on the other hand, especially those who understand themselves a little more in the Rules of Procedure are more interested in this issue. In view of these issues that have arisen, this agreement between the representatives of the clubs and this inexplicable situation with regard to the relationship of the clubs of MPs who do not have clubs in the sense that they are one at a time. We only now have two actual independent MPs, otherwise we didn't have independent MPs in this house earlier, which we should know, it was quite appropriate to make an earlier remark. Obviously, we now have a problem with the commission's work being understood at work, so to speak, but on the other hand and formally firstly, in full terms, because it appeared now obviously in this rush. It becomes an official commission for the first and, since it is an official, official commission for the Poslvonik on the work of our home, it will also assume obligations, which formally and legally oblige us to keep an eye on its composition and, obviously, the agreement that was made this morning, cannot be respected, because, indeed, it is neither normal nor formally accepted that the club of MPs who has nine or eight MPs or clubs, for example, which has nine MPs, will be represented in the commission with one member and that the independent MPs will also be represented in the commission. Obviously, in my view, the solution is, however, to resort to that formula that is being used and used in the selection of all other committees. In order to make this commission the way it should be, we cannot avoid primal mathematics here, we cannot, in fact, avoid the political configuration in Parliament and myself on our part after all the discussions we have heard, reminding you that it is becoming an official commission, to which the work, which will vote on proposals on future Rules of Procedure articles or amended articles of the future Rules of Procedure, will take over all the powers that other committees have. We can't even form it differently. All those who are in the mood and interested in contributing, have the right, of course, to participate in the work of the commission, and only the formation of the commission, obviously, we only have first or more space to agree on the number of members although the Rules of Procedure defined things for us. We know the relationship, we're only bound by the relationship of the entity and I think that this commission, and it's going to be extremely important issues of regulation of the work of this representative's home, I suggest that we don't waste our time obviously in the beginnings why this one and its formation, simply, subject the formula, which ate a valid one. Gentlemen, I am sorry, obviously, we cannot avoid the mathematics that obliges us to respect the fact that one party has five MPs, the other eight, the third nine, and that we have MPs who represent that option one by one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7420	Mr. Bogić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7421	Given that several participants in the debate found that this item was not prepared and that a number of club bosses had previously left the General College session, I suggest that this item of the agenda be postponed for the next session and be prepared by the next session, 66 taking into account everything that is said today, including criteria, entity representation, ethnic, national balance, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7422	Thank you, Mr. Bogić. We're in a big debate. I think your proposal is constructive and we thought there wouldn't be any objections for the next reason. Gentlemen, there will be no revotes, amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure only if we all agree. Every other approach, the approach to revote the Rules of Procedure will not result. I didn't discover America, I didn't discover anything new, it's familiar to all of you, and that's why we're looking for a solution to get to a commission that will work and solve some issues that we're all aware are open to, and that was an approach. But since we've had one strong bout today, where it's really a series of proposals, and it's impossible to sublime it all into one proposal, really. I think we should adopt Mr. Bogić's proposal and see that the club bosses, or the extended college, prepare the exact proposal for the next session and simply mix it all up. I'd have that suggestion. I ask Mr. Bogić's suggestion that we put it to the vote. Who's in? The voting procedure has begun. Here you go, Mr. Mijatović, and we'll vote. We have a proposition.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7423	I apologize, I say immediately to support Mr. Bogićević's proposal, but, gentlemen, dear, look what we're doing, we want to change the Rules of Procedure and we don't know how to apply it, so only according to the Business Service could a commission be formed. Please, fine, are we obliged to put up with the tour for an hour to figure it out? I apologize, but the College's proposal was against business, and we want to change the Rules of Procedure. I really can't understand it, and we don't have to put up with this much tourism and this kind of fuss over a non-quality proposal. And I'll make another proposal. After all, I support this proposal as a quality preparation and there will be no problems, and this is all that has been said that in the follow-up procedure is a matter of every club and every independent MP and every MP individually to discuss and to agree and adopt and to make a quality change to the Rules of Procedure. Gentlemen, I was saying this on the Constitutional Commission, the consequence of all this is that this assembly, this Parliament, has no legislative and legal service, not the commission. There is no one in this House who knows how to prepare quality anything and it is a tragedy of this Parliament unless it is established. We have adopted a lot of institutions so far, not some of them, but those that we adopted at BiH level, and this parliament does not know how to set up a congregation service for itself that will make this quality work out of experts from people who know how to do it. I would not agree with you gentlemen, it is the right of the MPs to propose everything, but a smart MP will always use the profession and form a service to do it in a quality way and prepare it so that with a fine proposal he can go out to this Parliament and not get into a mess like this. If the citizens of BiH listen to us, this has just happened, I don't know what their comment will be.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7424	Thank you, Mr. Mijatović. 67 I put Mr. Bogić's proposal to vote. Who's in? I ask the service even if it's been criticised to count the votes. Have you been able to count it? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Mr. Bogić was joking. He made a suggestion. There's no need for him to vote against himself. 34 senders voted - 34 for. The proposal was passed. I don't think I should say it again. It's already been repeated several times. Gentlemen of the Parliament breaks until 6:15 p.m. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7425	I suggest we go back to the 20th. Ad.20. The election of members and alternate members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegation in the Council of Europe You know that we were admitted to full membership in the Council of Europe in the fourth month, that we had a delegation representing us. At a meeting in Strasbourg, it was asked to sign that the delegation could be a delegation representing BiH at this meeting in the 4th month, but there were unclear interpretations, whether it was a delegation only for that session or whether it was a delegation until the elections. After all these peripheries and all I have sent a letter to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, Mr Valter Šimen, to explain to us what we should do to make no mistake, simply to explain whether we should choose members and deputies or only members and after this letter, I think that you have received both the letter and the position of the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, meaning that they should conclude that they are saying that this five-member delegation has been verified and that we should select five other representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly that will be ten and that it depends on them which of these five plus five new ones will represent, which will be members and who will be the deputies. In short, we should now select five members. According to the Rules of Procedure, delegations are set, criteria should be established, that is, Article 145 says the College will in coordination with the College of the Dima People determine how many members must be elected from both homes. The college will seek to find an exchange of formula reflecting the overall composition of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. We had certain criteria for selecting that delegation. They're what they are. I don't know if they're just when it all comes together, they were mostly the 3-2 House of Representatives of the House of Peoples. We tried, we organized a college of both homes. We didn't agree on some other criteria, and in my view, logically, if we don't have new criteria, and here are the members of the College, that these are old criteria, so the ratio of home 3 to 2. You, as you know, this delegation should reflect all the specificities, all the criteria it has and this House of Representatives, meaning it should be multi-party and multinational and that there are women in it and that there are representatives of the position and opposition, in the shortest, so, by all means, I propose and that's the position of our college to elect three other members. The thinking was, and our position was, on occasion, to agree to select three members and say that the current members of the current delegation are going to this session and the others who are going to go to this last one at 9. 68 months later, a new delegation is chosen according to new criteria, which is mainly the position of both the College and the College's proposal. So we've been thinking about this proposal, taking care of everything, we think we need three people, we should have three MPs. The College's proposal is that one representative of the SDA, one representative of the HDZ, plus the HDZ and one representative of the PDP plus the SND should be elected in this delegation and then in this second home to balance them against both this party and national and all other criteria. We can't affect these two. We can't determine, just wait. If we don't choose today, we can wait and try. The words of Mr. Neimarlija's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7426	To be honest with my fellow MPs, I expected the College to be a little more responsible on this matter. That's very serious. That's why before I state the position of the SDA Club on this, I will make two remarks to our Parliament's leadership. One is directly the chairman of both homes, the other is the leadership as a whole. The first concerns, to say, the behaviour of the heads of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly at the seminar and related to the seminar held by the Council of Europe and whose actors were vice-president of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Director, or the head of the Administrative and Financial Committee of the Council of Europe and the two other very important ones, in fact the head of the Monitoring Committee to which BiH is subject, in one word we had a seminar for Members of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which led prominent representatives and officials of the Council of Europe and, in fact, it was the most significant delegation of the Council of Europe, namely a delegation at the highest level of the Council of Europe, which came to BiH after our reception in full or full membership in this oldest European association. Appreciateing everything that the Council of Europe has meant to us, given, above all, I personally believe that this is very important, that in BiH alone there is, indeed, a public consensus of all political parties, will, political options, which is our involvement in European integration and... involvement in the Council of Europe as a way for our inclusion in these other Euro-Atlantic institutions, I have also expressed through a press conference that we have made our very harsh dissuasion over the relationship of this assembly's leadership towards the seminar and people who have been from the Council of Europe. I am sorry to have to repeat that the leadership of our parliament was present at the opening of a seminar alone. Some were longer, some shorter. From the chairmanship of both homes, however, one of the chairmans, who is also the chairman of our delegation to the Council of Europe, he was at least, in fact, he just came to the seminar and saw what was going on here and came back. The seminar was completed in relatively late afternoons. The MPs who were to the end know that these guests were respected high-ranking officials of the Council of Europe, and none of the hosts would at least express their gratitude for the seminar they held and which was concerned, which aimed at very serious education of our Members in the Council of Europe and, also, which was a significant issue for us, especially, of this monitoring and obligation that BiH has in the Council of Europe. So, and the obligations Bosnia and Herzegovina has in the Council of Europe. So as an MP, I have the need to reiterate my dissatisfaction, or chair both of the Houses of Parliament according to the seminar and officials from the Council of Europe who were in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Secondly, on the subject of these open questions about our delegation in the Council of Europe, two delegates in the House of Peoples of the SDA Mr. Genjac and my colleagues, Džaferović and I, as an MP, called a press conference in which, in addition to this disfavor, we expressed our dissatisfaction and public protest at the seminar because we found out that our temporary delegation, in fact, that the delegation in the Council of Europe, which we know of this assembly, is the right to represent us only at this meeting in April. In fact, we got the impression of ourselves declaring a permanent delegation with permanent members. Now, that's gonna be discussed, of course, but I'm sorry that I have to show dissatisfaction, dissatisfaction and some kind of protest. It was on our part and a protest and a call and an appeal for timely approach to election affairs or for resolving the issue of our delegation in the Council of Europe. Our statement, which was both prosthetic and appeal to address this very serious issue of Bosnia and Herzegovina's presentation in the Council of Europe, was followed by a response from the Public Relations Department where I don't know this is a new service with us in the assembly and I want to do a really successful work on my part, we need this service, we need a new quality communication with the public and I can understand that because of the speed or this pioneering service's character, a series of errors have been made in responding to our statement, so that one service, or the department of one service, has been appointed as an arbitration officer in this assembly. And among other things, in responding to this service, we said that the three of us were simply wrong, because we expressed the view that we do not have a permanent delegation to choose from, or we asked whether we had a permanent delegation with members of the Council of Europe and it was said in that statement, I ask you to get this statement. I'm sorry to bother you, but for an illustration our service has made, this new service for which for a reason we expect a more quality communication with the public. Its statement concluded, among other things, that it was concluded that a college of assembly homes agreed on criteria, in fact that not the 25th session of the House of Representatives since 23 May of this year, it was concluded that a college of assembly homes agreed on the criteria of full membership of the delegation, on the full membership of the delegation. We adopted today the minutes of the House of Representatives, which clearly states that the 25th session discussed the election of a permanent delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly after BiH's entry into the Council of Europe and that the principle of the position of the relationship between the two homes being 4+1 for members and 3+2 for the deputy members in favour of the House of Representatives. So here it is distorted or falsely presented the conclusion of our House of Representatives and that is why I express disdain. In addition to these first introductory expressions of disdain and protest and appeal that this is not happening in the future and given the attitude towards such important delegations that come to us from European associations and the work of our assembly services, I would now state the position of the SDA on the election of this delegation, i.e. regarding the clarification we received from the Council of Europe. On several occasions, I personally intervened, and I'm a little embarrassed to be forced here the fourth time I think I'm repeating things about the credibility of our presentation in the Council of Europe, about the credibility of what I'm verbally representing here. The first choice of delegation, as you know, was such that after the proposed fact-accepted, two delegates, or two members from Republika Srpska, were accepted, got stuck with the Federation, and after long neglect, we lost even the opportunity to participate in one of the meetings. This home of ours, you know, I repeat, I think, has been played because, unfortunately, at an agreement in this house, one of the members of the delegations was to reflect the political configuration of the Council of Europe's demands to be from the SDA, it was to be played and in the House of Peoples it was made that choice of delegation as it was made. At that time, the first request of the Council of Europe for the political configuration for which everyone here has been violated, we all swear at least here verbally to the public. We perform that we are all for Europe, we swear by plural democracy, we represent the opposition, one of the demands of the Council of 70 Europe, and one political mission of the Council of Europe is to affirm plural democracy, affirm the right of opposition. He was then literally violated and broken in one way that was almost brutal. I must visit you in the sense that, from the RS is represented in some way an entity position because they are delegates from the joint club Dr Turjačanin and from SDS fellow Tošić. The Federation of three delegates has been presented again, but only position. Among other things, with a delegate who is one of the only MPs from his party, and you have the SDA, you had HDZ, who together had as many as 14 MPs, were not represented as an opposition at all. What we are offered today in my opinion is really insufficient and credible not to say a lack of serious reaction to the failures we had about the election of this first composition of the delegation before the reception, and I, for my part, express really the strictest criticism of the reasons, and I will not enter into the motives of this proposal of the College, because this first does not solve the problem of the delegation. Please, the College's offer to hold this session in two days' time is half the Bosnia and Herzegovina's people are irresponsible. That means we don't have a delegation in the Council of Europe, because the delegation should be 10 members, is 10 members of regular and 5 deputies, 5+5. So we don't have a delegation. Why don't we have it amongst other things? One of the chairmans of the House of Peoples is also chairing the delegation so far. He did not find it appropriate, important to convene the House of Peoples and to make a choice or election and the remaining 5 members of the delegation Our solution is no solution. The solution of our college with all respect is flawed, or not a solution. Because here is either a solution or not a solution at all. We don't have any solution. So this is not a proposal for a solution. We know what this means for Bosnia and Herzegovina, we know which one we had, which all the rhetoric of that introduction into the Council of Europe from people who didn't find it necessary to call a meeting of the House of Peoples at which the election of members would be carried out. The same presidential delegation, which was not the vice-president of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, at the seminar. I simply don't understand things in front of such relationships, and as far as the MPs are concerned, there's just one more thing. In our record, we have established at the previous, previous session some, after a fine debate we had, a reasonable relationship between the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. On a whole series of issues that are less important or more important, we constantly stumble into these unexplained ones to say both functionally and practically and politically and relations between these two homes. The House of Peoples has 15 delegates among other things. We know his status and constitutional and by business. The House of Representatives knows how many MPs are elected. We are constantly in these purely functional and political issues, which is particularly important trying to command the House of Peoples with delegates, and we are elected MPs and this relationship 3:2 is the least said and politically unserious. This proposal or a semi-proposal that keeps any solution to me a bad relationship. Still, I do not want to be longer, given the importance of our involvement in the Council of Europe, the seriousness of the activities that include all the effects on which both the citizens and the peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina count, given our involvement in the Council of Europe. I, as an MP and as a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, cannot truly understand the behaviour, above all the president and our or the head of this parliamentary delegation. We know how he got to the boss. Not to call upon the House of Peoples to get this complete solution and logically to cause all the confusion and dilemmas in our home and give the basis for various conclusions. But this solution proposed by the College, fellow MPs, is not the solution. The SDA, according to mathematics that assumes the standards of the Council of Europe, has first and will require that it have one 71 members and one deputy member. Because according to the mathematics of the participation in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, these places belong to it. All other solutions will simply not be accepted for the reasons that so far these principles have been so brutally violated, and on the other hand, we cannot accept this solution in any way, because we do not consider it a solution. And here in the end, I believe that someone must be responsible or that someone is obviously responsible because behind this, for this session of this session of the Council of Europe, Bosnia and Herzegovina, after all the stories we've had for joining the Council of Europe, the Members of Parliament will not have a delegation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7427	I would like to thank Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija, the esteemed representative. The word has a respected deputy chairman, Mr Mirjanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7428	I, gentlemen, apologize for speaking the third time today, you know I don't have the usual to talk a lot. It's not a replica to Mr. Neimarlija. I must say, again, Mr. Neimarlija has given one brilliant analysis of a completely objective neutral analysis, as he often does. What I wanted to say to you is this. Gentlemen, you know that in the last session, I specifically told you that I, as the chairman of the House of Representatives, signed that this was our delegation from April 22nd to April 26th. As you can see, gentlemen, I've stuck to the decision of this house, and I've told you exactly how things are. And Mr. Bruno Haler confirmed even though the form you delivered states on April 22-26. So, gentlemen, the facts are clear. I just wanted to tell you that I always think that whoever represents this home, no matter what his name is, whose party he belonged to must work in accordance with the decisions of the House, which means that I also respected that attitude being the idignity of this home. One sentence that could cause confusion would read – the whole procedure was an explanation to representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Strasbourg. I am responsible for the three of us, members of the House of Representatives College, Mr. Ljubić, chairman, Mr. Avdić and I were not explained. In addition, this was explained to representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Strasbourg, and the three of us, members of the House of Representatives, are not representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Strasbourg. So it clearly states here that this was explained to representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Strasbourg. They might have known that, we didn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7429	I would like to thank Mr Mirjanić, the esteemed representative. Just some clarifications. On my initiative was called the College of Both Homes and I suggested this question, I won't say how anyone pleaded. Some people thought it was funny. Some people didn't want to talk. The only thing I could do was write a letter to Mr. Haler's initiative to invite a representative of the Council of Europe, Mrs. Mozer, to a conversation. That's all I've done, and the result is this letter. After that, I again said to forward the letter, yet again from another home some do not need to sit on it. And the only scheme based on 72 that we could do one part of the job is the one we have so far. As far as I'm concerned, it's no problem and it's off the agenda, but for one thing, I owe you one piece of information, I did, but off the record, I found out that our delegation gave five people out of here or six tomorrow to travel to Strasbourg. So there's no confusion. I know it off the record without anyone telling me. First, the honourable representative, Mr Amidžić, appeared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7430	Madam Chairman, fellow MPs, according to the conclusion of the Foreign Affairs Commission from yesterday's session, I am obliged to share my presentation in two parts. First, the Commission concluded that I would remind the House of the conclusions of the Commission on external affairs of 22.5. that is the 20th session that the Commission proposes to the House to come from the following criteria when resolving these issues. I quote them – the Commission has adopted the conclusion that the House of Representatives proposes that the election of both members and deputy delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Council of Europe be carried out at the next session; that the composition of the delegation be in accordance with Article 27(1). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives (proportional size of clubs), and proposes to the House that the criteria for the composition of this delegation be: adequate national representation, that the relationship between MPs in the House of Representatives, representatives in the House of Peoples in the total sum of 10 be 4:1 in favour of the House of Representatives, i.e. 8:2 and that, through the selection of deputy members of the delegation, the appropriate representation of the position and opposition is respected. This is the conclusion of the Foreign Affairs Commission. I'm just informing you of that conclusion. You can take him into knowledge. It's you, or we're home we can decide otherwise. The second part of my presentation is the representation of representatives in this House, meaning independently of the Commission for Foreign Affairs. I bind my statement to the previous session of the House of Representatives at which I first spoke about these conclusions and the second at which I decidently asked the College whether only the deputy or deputy members and members were elected at the next session today. The answer was a result at that time, both members and deputies. We have gentlemen and members and deputies on the agenda. Let us respect the Rules of Procedure of this House. Gentlemen, you have formulated the agenda for the selection of members and alternate members.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7431	I suggest you choose.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7432	Please, yes, but your explanation is mixed gentlemen. You're saying we couldn't make a deal, so we suggest we pick three and have a delegation go now. No, no, I heard what you said in the explanation. That's what I'm talking about. I read the letter, I have it before me, and I intend to talk about it. First the previous question, which is a little understatement, and second my understanding of this letter and the third proposal for a solution. In my neighborhood, there's an old story. Why is it cheese in the poor house? Why? The answer to see who's rude, so who's gonna pick up the Kajmak and leave the cheese. So it's about rudeness, and here someone took both cheese and cream. Now, that's not insolence, it's political impudence. And then where is the wisdom of Parliament and the diplomacy that represents us in the Council of Europe. I'm taking this out with full responsibility. So where's the wisdom? Let's go find 73 gentlemen. Let's function as an independent home that is not whose college couldn't agree with some other college how to function. Gentlemen, it should be noted that both the House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been previously elected, i.e. it is impossible for it to decide on a permanent delegation. How disabled. By writing these five Bruno Haler, you have to be, and you can choose the other five. So with that finding, we have to accept the fact. It is not a questionable letter, and I accept it as a fact and from it I am going to seek today's solution. What do I suggest? How do you find a solution? I don't care who goes tomorrow or who doesn't go. Whether he goes with the mandate of this home or not. And are we going to politically open this scandal and the affairs of individual action in this country? What's the solution? Next to the proposal...and Mr Neimarlija and the general state of affairs in this House, then the opinion of you and you from the College in previous discussions etc. Since the Council of Europe gentlemen have verified the mandate for the entire 2002 year for that 5-man delegation, what we can do. We can choose the other 5. I suggest we pick the other five. Secondly, since we can't agree not with the College, but with an individual from the House of Nations with a familiar name and last name, I suggest you respect the Commission's conclusions on foreign affairs and we choose all five, because he didn't call home, he's not interested, he's considered head of delegation, I suggest we choose all five. So the third -- so that's 8:2, so that's the account that shows all 5. Now what else do I suggest? For the sake of justice, for the sake of justice and for what has been wronged in the treatment of the opposition in this House, let's do the roschas between these 5 people in with that 3. We don't have to do everything. Let's get one from the SDA, for that meeting in the fall predicts being a member, and let someone from the current delegation be a deputy, because it is one of the best clubs gentlemen and that is our rules of procedure – writes proportionally to most clubs. I'm not rooting for anyone, but that would be some, that face would be saved. The face would be saved. So if possible, it means, and I think it's possible by one intervention among the members. And one more thing I would like to point out is that the delegation numbers 10 people, not 5+5. That all 10 should go. And I suggest we get all these five tickets by tomorrow and go to the Council of Europe with our conclusion. As deputies anyway at this point, as deputies or if we otherwise. We can decide among our people who will be a member of the deputy. It is known that they participate in the work of committees, but it is known that no deputies decide, members decide. According to this delegation, there are 10 people to finish it for all time. Ten people, it says here, gentlemen, this is where Bruno Haler wrote if we believe he gave it an interpretation. Ten men, gentlemen, and then let it be known that 10 people have gone, they have the right to do so. I claim all 10 people have the right to go. I was with Mr. Genjac and Bilbija in the Council of Europe for 8 days on a study trip from the OSCE paid. I've seen it work, gentlemen, here's the people, because there's no Genjac, here's Bilbija here. That's how it works, gentlemen. From Croatia, members and deputies of gentlemen and other delegations also come to the Croatian delegation. Because this is about parliamentary co-operation and party integration of gentlemen with related parties in the Council of Europe, political options. Why keep someone in isolation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, some kind of political option that can find its own related side that also in this way the state democratisation our political programme and democratisation etc. And in the end I will support, I will vote for, I suggest you vote individually, and I will vote for every number of people here, from whichever club is proposed, and in front of the HDU, I propose to Mr. mir Grabovac Titan. That's what I said at the last 74th session. We care at least once about our member seeing the Council of Europe and looking for some contact and connection that will benefit the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Gentlemen, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7433	I thank the honourable representative, Mr Amdižić. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Buturović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7434	Okay, I'll just relate to what my predecessor was saying. I haven't been to Strasbourg, but I've been to these seminars here that gentlemen have already told us all day. I got some things right. The Council of Europe is the oldest political organisation, one trans-national organisation. His congregation is the primary driver of all activities, and it has a specific way of working. It's not like a national parliament you know. It does not establish any laws, it makes proposals, makes recommendations, is the main Committee of Ministers. It is a specific instrument of the Council of Europe. And what I would like to point out here now is that our delegation would be a true delegation, that is, to be on the principles of the Statute of the Council of Europe, it must be 10 members. She can't give 5 at all, so now she's going to go 5 and then next time 5. It must count 10 members if it will be under the Statute of the Council of Europe. Check that out, please. Check that out. That's right, I'm sure I'm telling you it's true. She, because she's sitting in the Council of Europe. He doesn't sit in clubs, he doesn't sit in delegations. He's sitting in alphabetical order. And you don't represent your country there, you enter the Council of Europe, into a family of European countries. You join five political groups according to your political option. And that's where you develop your activities. That is the essence and it is a specific feature of the work in the Council of Europe Parliament. That, please, I don't believe those who need to know. However, I have a feeling that we have been consciously created this problem as well as in everything when we need something to always bring one minute to 12. I think this is all one skillful scenario. I can't believe these people. When I'm out of one meeting that I've been working on, and make sure I'm right, let him check it out, I'm saying I'm right. Here's what my predecessor said for 10 days or 10 or nothing. The deputies are equal members, only have no right to vote, but are involved in the work of political groups and represent various political options, not only the position options, but also the opposition. The entry into European integration cannot be achieved without the opposition's participation. It's a crucial and crucial question and let's not make a circus out of it. That's it. But now it's a minute to 12. We will again show the Council of Europe what we are. That we needed someone to come here and tell us you had to come 10. Here I am telling you that there must be 10 people to go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7435	Here we have members who are in place. Mr. Tošić. I don't think there's any confusion here. Looks like the House of People won't take this into consideration. They're the real ones, and those of us who did this communication, we're no good. That's how it works out.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7436	Please, please don't make another circus out of us here, and especially not from a delegation that's due tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, depends on the tickets. Now that you chose 5, if you had the consent of the House of Nations to take out visas and book tickets, that's 75 too late. We all end up the same as on purpose a minute to 12, and that's impossible now. Whether 5 or 10 will go, please, our Parliament decides, not the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe gave us while we were in position, please just so we know a special guest, secure paid tickets and stay in Strasbourg. It now falls exclusively on the budget and on the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So that's what we're going to decide if we're going to go with 5 or go with 10. I have absolutely nothing to add to what a colleague from SDA absolutely Neimarlija was right. So, but what we need to know is that we have to deal here with two colleges. Why did the other college avoid, probably because there are no arguments to this which Mr. Neimarlija spoke of, and that's why this was brought into tea. For these reasons, please don't make a fuss out of our Parliament. So this one has been confirmed by Mr. Brun Haler by this delegation and it has absolute and legal and legitimacy to go to this session, and by September we have time. Let's start at the first session next to discuss whether a delegation of 5 or 10 will go, in which it will be composed, and it ends as far as the delegation is concerned. There are new elections to be held, elections for four years when a new composition is likely to do all that. So all this stuff we're doing is unproductive, and I think we all understand that right now, and that's how we have to accept it. But since the next session, which will be on July 3rd or 4th, we need to agree on what the delegation will look like and what it will be. So, according to the Council of Europe, it's five and five deputies. Now that she has entered an equal membership of the Council of Europe. While we were special guests, we had 5 and they paid costs by the Council of Europe. How it will proceed will likely resolve the Council of Europe now. Will she leave it for this June and September session we'll see about this departure. So everything's still on the machine. Here they are already telling me, the secretary of the delegation means that since this, this departure of June, all the costs are borne by the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So that's something that's very important when it comes to costs. Are we Amdižić to go with 10 and I think we should go with 10 precisely because there is much to learn in parliamentary life, especially for those of us who are just now getting used to this work parliamentaryly and democratically, but that depends on whether the budget will be able to bear all these costs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7437	I would like to thank Mr. Tošići's esteemed representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7438	I am obliged to really do little more than an additional explanation on the line of what my colleague Tošić was saying. Perhaps I was really covered by the College of the House of Representatives in view of the fact that our colleague now pointed out that our home was being dealt with here, that he was discussing this problem, and that in fact everything was being broken in the way of the most brutal volunteerism in the House of Peoples. So, I'm staying with the remarks I referred to at the expense of leading our representative home, I'm really staying, but given the fact that our House of Representatives and the College was still dealing with this issue, and that we were brought to this teat, really brought in in one way by people who objectively insults me as a man. We made a press conference and as an appeal, warning that there was, because it was time for another 10 days to create a session of the House of Peoples. As a man, I feel, I now do not know what to say very helplessly, and I call on the representative of the SDP Club to find the proper form, I leave 76 to the standard to plead on our request as MPs, that is, the MP one and two delegates, whether the SDP is behind the behaviour of one of the chairmans of the House of People who is also the chairman of the delegations of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7439	I would like to thank Mr. Neimralija's esteemed representative. Here's a question, Your Honor, Mr. Bogićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7440	I thank Mr. Neimarlija for calling me at this hour to say something. Whether the SDP is behind what is happening to the House of the Peoples, Mr Neimarlija can ask the SDP president, the SDP presidency, the SDP's main board and will receive an answer. Do I stand as the head of the MPs' club behind what's going on in the House of Representatives or the House of Representatives, I can say I'm standing. I stand behind all MPs here, their active constructive work and everything that happens in the House of Representatives with maximum tolerance and maximum respect for plurality to the harm of these nine people. Look at the compositions of the commissions. Look at the presidents of the commission. Get the Constitutional Affairs Commission. There are two people from the SDA, two from the SDS, two from the HDZ from the SDP, only one from the top MPs. And so look at all the commissions. Have we shown maximum tolerance when selecting a delegation to the Council of Europe? The SDP from the House of Representatives doesn't have a single man. Here and today we wanted to show that we have such activity for the next two months, again without the SDP from the House of Representatives, back to the previous commission when we had the greatest understanding that we were working on a change of Rules of Procedure. And we have never, at any cost, at the expense of the election result, and these people here have insisted that the SDP go there in mind, I repeat this democratic plural scene in Bosnia and Herzegovina that we are at least seeking. And that would be my answer to Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija. So do I stand behind the Members' Club – I stand behind everything that happens in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7441	I thank the esteemed representative, Mr. Bogić Bogićević. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Lozančić, and let the honourable representative Mr. Amor Mašović be prepared. Come on when Mr. Lozančić's out.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7442	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, we have this on the agenda today and we have a letter from the Council of Europe and this memo is clear, but in relation to the previous discussions, and especially Mr. Neimarlija, whom I greatly respect in his discussions, I must say that we must return to the beginning of Parliament's work. And then there were inter-party agreements and among the clubs of agreements on the working bodies of this parliament in committees were whether which made up this parliament and in international organisations that parliaments had membership. And I must remind you then that such arrangements have also been reached when it comes to the Council of Europe delegations and the internal parliamentary union, both with the OSCE and with delegations to the Central European Initiative. And there was one ratio and a schedule that was both entityal and national and partyal. And finally something happened that shouldn't have happened, but at least we bear 77 responsibility for the delegation that the first time an inter-party agreement was played when it came to a joint inter-party agreement, but I would have come back here to Parliament. But I would remind you in all the parliaments itself that it was very difficult to put the opposition into an associated membership if in our special status and that in the past terms none was, I suggest Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija on several occasions, never received opposition to any place. The opposition was made by Mrs Mediha Filipović, whose party president was Prime Minister and that was 4:1. And that's pretty much what she's holding on to, that's when the Alliance achieved most of it. You add it up a little bit, so be very objective, I'm not talking to the relationship, we've come 5 to 12 today, and then we have a certain success. We are at least responsible, or all of us are credited through more calls, but I have to tell the commission that the commission was working, that her president called meetings that lobby, that she stepped into the Council of Europe, that she had sympathy. I cannot say the way it came to be the commission, because the commission was working and the commission was adopted in that term. Now all of a sudden, I'm really embarrassed to hear all of this. All the demands in the last two months are that the commission needs to be changed. I ask the question, nowhere in any parliament, see who was an associated member and who has a commission when they verify the mandate, they verify annually in 2002 that if they do not report that they have elections and that they do not reserve new mandates behind the elections. And now he's practically trying to say that since we're just going to have to change the commission. Then it is said directly that I as one of the parties am in that delegation, but relations should be taken in all delegations. It should be assumed that today other opportunities were entirely, that they should also give legitimacy in this Parliament and in the elections, that MPs did not recognise the relations of power and choice in this parliament, so they left, did not work, did not come. Thank God today is a whole different relationship. They built a new club that has most of it, etc. He's coming out of that position. When this delegation was elected, we were not in Parliament, and then we are like Hrvat, me and Violeta Kamberović. Just to remind you, it's not quite as good as it is to approach this election in such a way as to be in relation to one of the interparty agreements that is not related to this home. And it's very embarrassing to feel now in one delegation that's got results regardless of what we're not responsible for as our diplomacy and that we were only there special guests, yet in that term...now we dispute whether we're going to be at the next meetings at the next two sessions. You'll probably have to swallow from the SDA the injustice that was done to you and correct it after the election. I think it's the most real thing, everything else we can do not leave the delegations, we can leave other people, we can do others now. I think it would be good if we had five deputies and only five seats reserved for this session. So it's not 10. Maybe it's for the fall, maybe to make that compromise so the deputies go for the fall. That's true, and no delegation has been booked. Sir, I'll tell you, he can't vote together and the deputy and the delegate. There is no place, no delegation has any place in the Parliament of Europe. At least we know. There is not a single delegation of alternate seats in parliament, but delegations can change during the session. Which means it can go if we want to bear the costs of ten people all the time and change in the course of the session itself. I had an obligation to say this in order to remember a little about how the distribution was made in all the meanings of organisations, which means with international organisations, and then it would have to be re-opened inter-party agreements between colleges and relations between homes. I'm sure there's a relationship between the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples to the harm of this home, but that's what our college has done. I had an observation back then that it wasn't a relationship, but it was achieved, and I think we should respect what it says in the letter. Now it turns out, and I'm rooting for myself, it's 78 no matter now, but somehow on the human side it's important that you end up in that term that you're elected for, because it's going to end up in the Inter Parliamentary Uunija of the OSCE and the Central European Initiative, and we're not even guilty of becoming full members of the Council of Europe now, so it's now attractive for all of us sitting here. Here I wanted to go back and forth a little bit to say all these relationships and how I came to that delegation, and to say, no matter who had a grudge against this seminar here that the chairman had worked very well, that he called on the delegation that she had a very good lobby, that she had come forward, that she had her sympathies, that she had a pass on the political committees, and that maybe that helped our reception.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7443	I would like to thank Mr. Lozančić's esteemed representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Mašović. Correction of the wrong quote. Before the replica, then.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7444	Madam Chairman, fellow MPs, I must tell Mr. Bogić that he is wrong when he says that they do not have a representative. They have the chairman of our delegation, and that's their business whether they set it up, whether it's from the House of Representatives or the House of Peoples. So you consciously let it be in the House of the Peoples and that's it. You can't have five of you out of 57 people. That would be too much. That's one thing. And the other thing I want to say is that here, as far as I'm concerned, we're exhausted here, it's already too late, I think it would be just and something in this constructive, most constructive proposal, this is now brought into such a teatung that there's no change, and there's no effect that we're moving on here for free to each other now whether it's good or not. This delegation that is now to go, and the conclusion should be that the next delegation cannot go to those who are from this delegation, but will be chosen by the new criteria agreed on at Clegium by rope or wider. There's no reason for us to be exhausted anymore. I mean, it's unnecessary that we say now it can go 10, it can go this way, here's the guy saying visas are already done as far as I know. It's all over waiting for them to take off tomorrow. There's no way to make it right, and there's no political will to agree here right now, and I think it's unnecessary to exhaust ourselves. The best thing to do is to end this and go away, brother, and the next time, it means the next session to put the first item of the agenda and decide how to choose which delegation will represent us in September.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7445	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Spasojević. Here's to correcting the wrong allegation, the esteemed representative, Mr. Marko Amidžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7446	It is false to call for the formation of a temporary delegation. Here I accept that the way the temporary delegation was formed was okay. I accept her work was good. I accept that she has done much for the admission of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Council of Europe. But, gentlemen, the fact is that it is a permanent delegation, not entering the personal composition, we could, I am therefore 79 to have all five of you be who you are now in that delegation, but Parliament had to decide on that, and that cannot be decided by an individual. So it's his fault, it's all a hollow story, so don't understand when I'm talking about this I want to get someone out of the delegation. If I have to tell you, Bianca, here's a hand on the Constitution that I will vote you again, but Parliament has been voted out in that decision, gentlemen. Next, so I don't go into the personal lineup, I don't take credit for people, but I have a correct opinion about all of you, but what's the other question in the wrong quote. Mrs. Bruno Havel writes, but you still have to complete the delegation with five other members. Is this a credible translation, gentlemen? That's what you gave us for today's session. A full delegation, please allow me to read the quote – A full delegation of Bosnia and Herzegovina should therefore be drawn up from 5 already appointed whose credentials have been ratified as well as five new members who will be appointed by your parliament. When will the credentials of these five people be accredited? If their names don't go to this Council of Europe session, they won't be able to go in the fall. Don't let anyone paint me into it. It's a blockade. That is to make it impossible for another five people to appear in the Council of Europe, which is more impossible for Parliament. Ten people count people's delegations. It says a man here if, so you delivered this to me. Ten people deliver my men. He leaves the possibility for us to decide that these new ones can be members, and that they must remain in the composition of the delegation. But I'm also so that they don't touch each other, let them go five, be members now, but that's my people. What does this look like? This attempt to demining Parliament in decision-making. Please, I believe that, I conclude, gentlemen, there must be 5 names at the next meeting of the Council of Europe for an additional 5 names. Those five names are to be ratified by the Council of Europe as five members. Who at the next session of those 10 will go, it's a matter of parliament. That's my opinion, and don't you gentlemen, I say, please, here's the tape. I claim this is an obstacle to Parliament's completion of the delegation. Bruno Haler is asking us to complete the delegation so that 10 men gentlemen, everyone be now, all of them be deputies. But it has to be a delegation, it says a man that he has to be 10 people. If someone didn't want to call their home to name anyone, what does that mean? It means he's not for completing the delegation. He's about to keep it going. It says people have to be 10 people. I repeat, if I can't read, then correct me. But I don't want to talk about math. I won't answer any further. It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7447	Please establish the quorum. Please establish the quorum first, 24 we have the quorum. Mr. Mašović has an esteemed representative for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7448	Very, very short, little mathematics only in favour of my colleague Amidžić's discussion, not about this last one, but about the previous discussion. So it seems to me that this debate has made us choose these five members or not to choose at today's session to give us a little bit of the essence of the problem. The main issue is therefore, which is the number of members of the Representative House, which is the number of members of the House of Peoples to enter the permanent delegation. So here's the math, if the relationship is 6:4 as proposed to us today for the benefit of the House of Representatives, this is expressed in percentages means 14.28 members of the 80 House of Representatives will enter the delegation and 26.66% of the members of the House of Peoples, they are obviously twice as smart and more beautiful and know twice as many languages as we do. That's obvious. If the relationship were 7:3 this would mean that 16.66 members of the House of Representatives would be included and 20.00% of the members of the House of Peoples. So they're a little smarter and a little nicer than we are. If the relationship were 8.2 as proposed today, it would be 19.04% in favour of the House of Representatives to 14.4% of the members of the House, which seems quite logical to me. I appeal to my fellow members of the Permanent Council from this home to refrain tomorrow and the day after tomorrow from travelling and thus deny support for the House of Nations representatives and I think that this might have some final result now that they have felt the benefits of travelling around Europe might be a little more reasonable in further talks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7449	I thank the honourable representative Mr. Mašović. Is it a replica or. The replica has Mr. Tošić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7450	Please, since I'm a member of the delegation, I don't want to defend anything. At first, I think what counterpart Mašović has now proposed is not exactly standing. We only have one here, if it's a problem, but we should go back to Mr. Lozančić to see how we made that delegation and who's where it represents and what. Now we have put everyone else aside and now we are only engaged in a delegation of the Council of Europe. Please, but then we must return all delegations and see all travels. Who are the presidents of the commission, who are the chairman, how is the position as the opposition, as Republika Srpska? So this is a much more serious problem. Secondly, it would be unserious, absolutely unserious of this Parliament that now that we have first time to go and officially vote in the Council of Europe not to leave. I mean, that's crazy. So we're absolutely making fun of this institution. Now we're talking about her, we're talking about her now, and now we're saying now we're going to show them how we can obstruct the Council of Europe. Please, if there's a problem I'm an objective man, there's only a variant, I'm an opposition in this and therefore, there's my place, not to me, but to my party, and there was a place for you from the SDA as the second strongest opposition party. When it comes to representatives of the Croatian people, please speak from the Alliance bloc and the opposition bloc, from Republika Srpska we are the strongest opposition Federation party you are the strongest opposition party. That's what I'm talking about. So there's only one problem. Is that a representative of the SDA or from the Alliance? If we want to put it on that pharmacy scale. And in order to get that back, then we have to start from the OSCE, from the Interpalramentary Union from other committees when it comes to European integration, and then return to the presidents of the Commission, and we will see where who is who and who is in position, who is in a better or worse position. For these reasons, please, I suggest we end this, because there's no reason to be exhausted. You can't decide about this delegation or 5 people the way someone suggested. We'll do five, we don't care what the people say. The concept as so far worked by the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina The House of Representatives and the House of Peoples has just agreed on a consensus, on a college and on one and the other home, on an extended college. The problem is we haven't met at least 10 days before on this subject and agreed. Now I think it's all unnecessary. There's no further story. 81 and a third of me to have someone invite me to give up now, and Bruno Haler sent us a call to go, I don't think it makes any sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7451	Here first came the replica of Mr. Neimarlija's esteemed representative, so Mašović, then Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7452	I know that we are respected colleagues that we are in the end and I am really very much out of the desire to bother anyone, but the replica of the first respected colleague, Bogić Bogićević, who, of course, was fine on my request, said that he was responsible for the MPs' club in the House of Representatives and that as a SDP club in the House of Representatives, he was not even a bit responsible for MPs in the House of People who is from the SDP. Of course he was responsible and should have been responsible, because I reminded him of the choice of delegation when my colleague Bogićević, who was then chairman of the SDP, was involved in an agreement that was accepted by the SDP Club, which has 9 MPs and which was violated by a single SDP delegate in the House of Peoples. On the other hand, counterpart Bogić does not have the right to be neutral and to be neutral, actually the SDP MPs' club, because the SDP Club also suffers from its MPs. That's one thing. The second thing, what my colleague Tošić was saying, people I am perfectly aware of, please, so it is clear to all of us that this discussion cannot produce a change of state in the Council of Europe, but people produce and, colleague Tošić, did we understand what this is doing? So it produces ridicule and the Council of Europe and this home of people. So this result, counterpart Tošić quite justifiably asks the question of what makes sense now to say that we are not going to the Council of Europe. That would be a disgrace to Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the same time, isn't it a shame what we are doing in this way in the Council of Europe? I'm not talking because we claim to be from the SDA to the delegation at all costs. I come from the fact that these are the principles of the essence of participation in the work of the Council of Europe. If we are to behave in such a way as to fail the fundamental principles of the Council of Europe, then what is a delegation to the Council of Europe for anyway?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7453	I would like to thank Mr. Neimarlija's esteemed representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Amor Mašović, of the replica. Quarum 22, 24, I think. You're asking if you think we don't have one. To determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7454	I didn't say something by my colleague Tošić, and it's a false assumption that our delegation tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, is not traveling. I have invited you colleagues from this House of Representatives to sort of side with this home in this conflict of interest between the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives, and let the gentlemen of the House of Nations go tomorrow. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7455	I thank the honourable representative Mr. Mašović. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7456	I think this has become more than unserious and that it is spreading pure political presence of political dilatism. I believe that the College of this House is responsible if five new representatives are not elected to the Council of Europe, bearing in mind that the agenda has been removed from the last session, and knowing that it will be in this tank, without repeating what Mr Amidžić said unless the accreditation for the new 5 will be sent for the next session, he will not be able to attend. So it's skillfully played, I won't be taking the time now, but the responsibility will be exclusively to the College and we will send an objection as a club to the Council of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7457	Thank you. The replica was reported by a respected representative, Mr Mirjanić. I suggest you pick whatever you want, I'll just run the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7458	Ma'am, there's a change of thesis here. This college is not responsible for anything. This college initiated conversations with another college, but we can't convince anyone to accept a deal with us. Whoever didn't understand it didn't understand one brilliant analysis of Mr. Neimarlija who twice provided a brilliant analysis of the situation. So I don't want to add or subtract. So we don't mind as much as a college. We've done everything, but there's no good will on the other side. At least that's clear to everyone. So no one, we're not defending each other as a College. We can tonight, Dom has a quorum can make any decision he wants. Propose if you think you should propose and choose to vote. Don't transfer your responsibility to someone who isn't guilty. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7459	I would like to thank Mr Mirjanić, the esteemed representative. Sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7460	Can I just have a minute? The College cannot avoid responsibility, given that, having taken the agenda off from last session, that it has asked for an opinion, means for the selection of new members, and that it has received a reply to this college on request from him where he says you have to choose a new 5 more, i.e. that the delegation must be completed by 10. So you had to make sure that if Bosnia and Herzegovina doesn't have a complete delegation, so it doesn't matter what these 5 go to, today it had to be ensured, pick a new 5, it doesn't matter who they are. So, just a little bit. So if you don't choose, I'll tell you if you don't choose the debt you owe means you've been making sure there's no quorum and the point is the last one. If the College is not chosen, it will only be by our club, or responsible... and we will send an objection. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7461	Thank you. I'm not anybody's mom or aunt here that, please just slowly let us understand ourselves we've opened the agenda point. I'm ready to sit as long as it takes. If you suggest 5 and ask for a vote, I'll take that vote, no matter what that means. So don't forget, I'm withdrawing consent to those three, that ratio is 3:2. So there's no relationship between me. Mr. Brika's Honorable representative has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7462	Is there a quorum? I'll try to be really specific. Everything my esteemed predecessors have said I appreciate, especially what Mr. Neimarlija said and Mr. Amidžić said. I support from word to word what they said to both and each other and please ask a question to all of us, to all of us here, I don't know the answer. I wouldn't ask you if I knew. Can this House of Representatives afford to have someone roll around for two years? And it is obvious that this home, a gentleman with a familiar name and name, spins this home from the constitution of this House to the selection of delegations to today's day. So we have a situation to say in the democratic state of Bosnia and Herzegovina is acting like a tyrant king and keeping us here in some kind of captivity. If that's what we're supposed to do, that's how it has to be. Does anyone have a state responsibility or political responsibility? I invite someone from this house to tell me if we can be someone's prisoners. I don't accept that. I do not accept that anyone in this House, one MP, not the entire House as a prisoner of anyone. We know that in this case this gentleman has a familiar name and last name. You all know who I am. That's, I ask the question and I don't allow myself to be anyone's prisoner. You know it well. Still. I suggest we choose what Mr Amidžić said to five people, and I suggest that in some way remove the injustice of the SDA. You all know it was an injustice. I propose today two men from the SDA club Mr Salih Kulenović and Mr Buturović to be members of the delegation to the Council of Europe. I suggest we pick five people today and that's the end of it. And please, please answer me today how to invite a man to a responsibility that doesn't do his job and I completely doubt that this Mr. Chairman has good contacts out there, and he's always out there, he's always out there, when he doesn't have good contacts with our college. How can I trust him to talk to strangers and talk normally? Where are your results? If with these colleagues in this building he can't have normal communication for a year and a half or two years.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7463	I would like to thank Mr. Brk's esteemed representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Cuplov.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7464	I am to be honest with a lot of patience here by argument which is less familiar to all of us, I am listening in a repeated form in a different formulation already on several occasions. I ask you nicely, we must go from the facts that are today – the delegation travels tomorrow. This 84 moment to choose all 10 people, you have the right to do so. It's technically impossible to send these people to Strasbourg, please. Please, it's a naked fact. The second is a fact, it is a parliamentary delegation from the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament, which consists of two homes. You cannot choose 5 people, actually you can, but that choice is not valid and will not be accepted in the Council of Europe. It's a naked fact too. I ask you nicely, regardless of the emotional charge associated with this, we must stick to the fragmatic of what is objectively. The objective people are traveling tomorrow. Apparently, Mr. Haler, by letter sent to this House, has made it clear that the legitimacy of the five elected members is consistent at this time. They're quite regular leaving tomorrow. I'm asking you nicely for practical reasons you can't join people, it's technically inconclusive even if it's possible at this point. You can name it, you can't name five people. I will not participate in this, because I absolutely know that this is a delegation from the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament, which consists of two homes, and you must have representatives of two homes, regardless of the percentage and what Mr Neimarlija has expressed which is a classically beautiful and accurate argument. I accept that, it's true. But we've got the condition that it is. We can continue here for five hours now. I'm telling you tomorrow people are traveling. At this point, it's impossible to make any practical move.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7465	Correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7466	Since I've been called, I have the right to answer, right? And I thank you for giving me a chance. So there's not much to it, but please repeat, no one touches an existing delegation, gentlemen. It's about a letter that needs to be completed by ten people. Please, someone, here's the Merdžana to whom Mr. Goun is called. Let him say whether the delegation should have 10 names tomorrow or the day after tomorrow in the Council of Europe or 5, and it doesn't matter how many will go. It doesn't matter how long it goes. I'm not getting into that. Let the people who took the tickets go. I'm not getting into how much he's going to go. Second. Gentlemen of the College, don't be angry, you're authorized to talk, you're authorized to comply with the laws. Did you come to us with a harmonised attitude to say - we couldn't agree with them on ratio 4:1 to go 3:2. It's a harmonized attitude of the College. I place the motion to the House to go 3:2. I wouldn't discuss it. I'd like to make a statement about that, gentlemen. But you have no attitude towards this issue. That's my opinion. Question number two. I'm sorry about all the procedures, so this isn't my people's voluntary fire company, this is the state parliament. All procedures exist to my people. All procedures exist to my people, it's all clear. Who signs these people's travel orders? Is he on his own? No, I don't. Someone's signing. Can it be signed without Parliament's decision? He can't, I don't think he can. Let them choose to sign themselves, and then we'll open up other questions. So the procedure exists, it's just whether we're going to open up problems or not. But I'm not for this problem, let it stand. But let's solve it, if you gentlemen of the College think it's not fair 5, let's choose 3, but give a stand to choose 3 and you choose your 3 men. And it is our right in clubs to inform the Council of Europe and individually about the behaviour of people. We accept the fact that Mr. Haler wrote. But we're distinguished and deceived, that's a fact. Mr Mirjanić, is there someone there not you, you are, no, you have said in your explanation it was told to a permanent delegation, not to you, but the fact that people have made it through the Council of Europe. Those are the rules we didn't know. So let's solve a part of the problem, part of the problem. We're not gonna fight low, but let's open up a problem and let him deal with it. Who has the right not to, gentlemen? Me when I'm on my way, I'm looking for a travel order. Who signs travel orders. Is there a constitutional and business relationship to sign a travel order if it says that the delegation must have 10 people, not all 10 go, but 10 names should be at the next session. These five and five other names. I, of these five, propose Mr. Grabovac for one, and I will support everything else that you propose for the composition of the delegation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7467	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Marko Amidžić. I'm now saying, as far as this college is concerned, no one has signed anyone's warrant anywhere to go. Therefore, I do not have any criteria of my own precisely for being serious that we do not represent a free group of citizens, which is why I could not propose any criteria to say that we choose. We leave it to all of you for those who are proposed I will vote. Ms. Violeta Kamberović's esteemed representative came forward to correct the wrong allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7468	I have to correct Mr. Chairman. It's not just a correction to the wrong quote, it's a replica and everything. Please, there's only one question to ask after what we're doing. After this debilitation and finally the harassment that we have a quorum in the hall, but all those other MPs, the MPs who have left, ask the question – who among us is wise, are we who are left or who are gone? I will ask the question at one session of the next session of Parliament - why are MPs leaving Parliament's session? That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7469	I thank the honourable representative, Mrs. Kamberović. The word has the distinguished representative Mrs. Bahrija Osmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7470	I have to wait for the debate to end in Parliament. I think we've become a little bit sick so we won't do it right, so we'll make it wrong, fight both our heads and our beards and all our powers just so we don't do it right. Well, for God's sakes, we're so exhausted, we've got three or four months ahead of us and twice that delegation to go to Strasbourg. Is it worth this much debate? Is it worth it worth it to exhaust ourselves on these two trips to those five new people who are supposed to be going tomorrow, the day after they go, when they have to go, the next time they have to go? Well, for God's sake, can't we talk about it? I totally agree with all these debaters who talked about it, but you've all confused me so much now that I don't really know what the man in this situation is going to do anymore. I'm sitting up there watching already three or four MPs go out with pills to drink them there. What does that mean? That's one thing. 86 Second, look how much time we spend here. I, with full right, ask the Doctors to stay with us until the end, because if we continue like this, we will fall more. That's what I'm suggesting, and I've seen others present, rather than finish this job, really finish it. We, if we are going to do what is right to be and to drag out sieves and sheep in number, must respect that there must be representatives in this delegation, both of the House of Representatives and of the House of Peoples. If we initially respected it and said 3:2 let's do it and now that it's been working that way for a year and a half, let's do it for the next three months. I ask you to let those 3 men we propose at this session and end up, respecting the full right that the SDA should get that place and should have gotten it before, but that's how it was to correct a mistake if that error can be corrected to appoint its member to appoint a HDZ and someone third and to end this village. I think if we keep this up, it's gonna be a little bit of a night for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7471	I thank the distinguished representative, Mrs. Bahrija Osmanović. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Buturović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7472	Here, I'll make a little suggestion as a doctor. I can see that we are obviously very interested in being members of the European community. I don't think we have a quorum here, but it's on the border, it's running away, I think it's really nothing like this. This is another cynicism of what we want and what we want and thank the dear god that will soon be 4th of October. I hope that the new assembly of Parliament with new people will know how to lead us to Europe. Thank God that 4th of October is close. In consultation with your people here from the club we as members of the SDA party see that that's the case. We wouldn't propose any candidates. Do this the way you did, let this farce go all the way. Thank God it won't take long. Please let me tell you this. So many people from Europe are tolerated to us. So much they understand our specificity and they want to help us, they respect us, so they let us rotate the members ourselves right through this letter. It's done we know it well in January of the month. But they are respecting all this which is objective, because we have talked about it again, which is not by the rule and by the Statute of the Council of Europe. And yet we pretend, play, and so forth. And we'll play it again. We're wasting ourselves for nothing, and as a doctor, since it's really over every step of the way, there's no point in talking about this, to end this trouble, it's going to be as agreed, it's going to be as agreed and we would really give up. I don't think it really makes sense. And hopefully later, we'll have some chance of having a part in the delegation. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7473	The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Kovačević.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7474	You know what, this is beyond reason, and so we don't get involved anymore, what we have right to have is this delegation and it's going. Don't be ashamed the delegation isn't going. And three to choose these from three nations, three, if this is the relationship, and let the House of the Peoples make their mistake for not choosing. And we from the 87th order of Republika Srpska from the Serbian people propose here from Tihomir Gligorić's position, let the SDA agree on who will be theirs and agree with Titan Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7475	Mr. Kovačević, Mr. Gligorić is a proposal from our club, not yours.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7476	So we suggest. Did I hear that suggestion?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7477	Who else is answering for a word? Who's on the phone for another word? I mean, there's nothing to vote on when we don't have any suggestions. Mr. Bilbija. Bog, God, this really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7478	I first have one technical question. Does it mean anything that without the House of Nations, we choose one, two, three or five today from the House of Representatives? Does that mean anything?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7479	So we choose our own. Everyone chooses.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7480	Okay. If it means sitting we've been working, negotiating, negotiating. You wouldn't be causing controversy right now, discussion. I see those who continue to live and travel are all gone looks like I'm staying now. So now that I'm on my way, there's not one before. Most of you are here somewhere within a mile, 10 or possibly 50. My suggestion is to at least select these three members, here is Mr. Gligorić. Let us select three members to finish our work, to leave the possibility to the people's home if they want to call tonight to make a deal. If someone has to hold a phone session, but it's not up to us to really be unserious after so much fighting conditions at the time of the screening, it would really be a shame that the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina doesn't have a delegation in the Council of Europe, respecting all the views and clubs and parties and everything, but we have to solve something, because if we keep sitting here like this, and we wonder why we're sitting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7481	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Bogić Bogićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7482	I'm asking you to try to bring this to an end while we have the quorum. Respecting the Rules of Procedure on the work of our home, Article 145 is quite clear, before the appointment of members of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to participate in parliamentary assemblies and other international institutions, the College will in coordination with the College of the House of Peoples determine how many members must be elected from both homes. The College will seek to find an 88-proportional formula that reflects the overall composition of the Parliamentary Assembly. That's number one. That's to the College. It would be good if the College told us now a proportional formula, please don't anyone get angry. So it's not up, please, we don't have proportional formulas. I'm not criticizing anyone, please let's try to finish. 145th point 1 is up to the College conditional. 145nd Point 2 to our home. Point 2 we appoint our members to participate in international parliamentary parliaments. And point 145(3) is to a delegation which, within 7 days, has to meet, has to have a Rules of Procedure, etc. Let's sort things out. Since our college failed to reach an agreement with the College of the People's House, can we skip that phase and go right to Article 2 145 to choose people? This morning, a framework agreement was reached in the enlarged College, which was announced to you, respecting the position and opposition and presenting in the Council of Europe this structure of Parliament that from our home where we alone and we can choose to be representatives of the political parties SDA, HDU and Mixed Club. That's right. And we accepted that. That if you can do the fourth, be careful, as far as I'm concerned, you can do the fifth. No, I haven't been there and I'm asking you not to take this any longer. ____________________: What are the arguments that you agree to at 3:2? [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7483	We have nothing to agree to, because we didn't have to talk to each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7484	No, they didn't. ____________________: They need to make arguments. [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] If they say 3:2 okay. Make your argument. Let's hear it. What are the arguments? Is this what I was saying, brains, beauty, language knowledge, percent, what are their arguments?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7485	Please. Let's try to solve this. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7486	So, by respecting this procedure that I have presented, we have two suggestions first. [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] Our college didn't make a deal with the House of Peoples College. We have two suggestions on the numbering representation of the House of Representatives. One 41, the other 32. It's math. I can't accept it in any way to be 32. Our college is, but part of the Expansive College is part of it, not everyone accepted what you just said. We now have 37 more represented than the House of Representatives. If we go back to 32 then that's it, the basic principles of the equal process of agreement are broken. That's why I'm helping that, uh, the chairman doesn't mind if we make a statement about these two proposals, and we're also helping...
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7487	89 [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7488	Please come out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7489	You need to go out for a pay phone for recording, please. It can't be recorded from the scene.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7490	I thought that, however, always, if a political content solution cannot be reached, then it is the formal solution that binds us. A colleague Bogić has offered this procedure, however, it is also stuck. Please, there is no way to accept the simple fact at the beginning of selecting this first composition of delegations this home was represented by a part of the House of Peoples. Please. There's no way to appreciate that. It's a elemental fact. Furthermore, I must note with all this respect for these arguments that my colleague Tošić presented. The failure of a delegation that has so far represented Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Council of Europe is among other things, and that it has not taught us its own status which we have learned only today that they are actually appointed and that they remain members either as members, either as deputies. And finally, apparently, our college has begun to agree on these things, and the College of the House of Peoples avoids agreements and it is up to us to make clear how many representatives we will have in the delegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7491	I would like to thank Mr. Neimarlija's esteemed representative. Who's calling? Mr. Loznačić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7492	We haven't located the problem. We've been talking here for five hours, and we don't know, and we're not gonna tell you where the problem is. This delegation will not work without the signature of both homes and not to be parliamentary. So whatever you choose. Secondly, we have to say that the College, we should have started the College's change activities that he could never agree on and he never agreed on, and not now on the delegation, turns out that this delegation didn't teach you, passed on or appointed you. She was named by the decision of this home and both homes. She was appointed, she signed the chairman's appointment and she was as such certified. We're going in reverse order. I know what the problem is. We all know what the problem is. It's damaged the SDA, but there's nowhere in the world to give me now. That's been going on for a year and a half, and that's true. Okay, that's on the sidelines now. But I will, we haven't located, we keep talking about it, and we know that it will be verified in the Council of Europe if there are both signatures of both homes. And there's not a single delegation anywhere that has any more of the opposition than the position. The opposition is represented everywhere, but there is no opposition anywhere more than the position in any delegation. Now we would choose here, not knowing the choice of home to the people, and we could break it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7493	But I don't know who the opposition is, and who the position is. Come on, don't keep us. It was us who were also candidates who gave up. So it's not about personal matters, it's about 90 whether or not we're going to honor what we're asked to do. The attempt was to, I'm ready if here, if we offer a delegation of 4, I'm willing to vote for it. But in that case, it would be correct for the SDP as the highest party to have another party.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7494	Okay, I say it'll work.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7495	And then another home to see who needs it, is that SDA?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7496	She can change delegations, she's certified the mandate, but she can change. You got it. I also wanted to replicate Mr. Mašović a long time ago, so I didn't get it. This isn't a tourist trip. We work there, and we are chosen by Parliament, and as long as we have that mandate, we should travel. That's how the term of office goes on. And what's happened here is the least we're members of the delegation's fault. Therefore, we can discuss on other topics, on a variety of other trips from this Parliament, but the Council of Europe delegation is being discussed as someone to refrain from travel is inappropriate.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7497	Abdurahman Malkić responded. I mean, this doesn't make sense. This is what two people need to send out.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7498	The fact is, gentlemen, we can't do this very well today. I therefore propose one conclusion on this matter and that the College of the House does not come this way unprepared for this item of the agenda and that we ask for the responsibility of those who have brought over the political manifestle, the one who is practicing to us Mr. Chairman of the House of the Peoples Sejfudin Tokić, to ask for his responsibility why we are sitting here for 5-6 hours and asking ourselves whether someone is smarter or who is gone. He would suggest to all of us that we leave an opportunity to conclude that the SDA has two members for the next meeting, whether it is one of the audio or 2 from here or from the House of Peoples and the rest are filled in accordance with the proportional representation of all 10 members of the delegation in the Council of Europe. That's my suggestion. And finally, I want to offer Mr. Bogić a table of members in the committees of the chairmans and to say that what he was saying is absolutely not a reflection of the truth. Here are 2 members, 2 chairmans of the SDP, 7 times 2 are members, that means 14, plus 1, 15 other members of the others. That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7499	I would like to thank Mr. Malkić, the honourable representative. Who else is answering? What do we do? Where are we? How? You make a suggestion after I run the procedure. No, as soon as you suggest, I'll put it to the vote. So far, we've only proposed three. 91
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7500	May I ask you, indeed, to accept the proposal, to be smart, to ask the Kolegijum of ours and the Kolegijum, which in the short term of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples to meet and to discuss this problem again. To offer such a proposal at one of the scheduled Plenary sessions, so for 15-20 minutes, we can only verify it. And everything else that we would do to me at night and propose all that late for this delegation to attend this session. So for the next session to be prepared, which is that it means two colleges sit back and study this issue and find a solution and offer it to us. There is no solution to the third. I'm asking you to accept this and bring it to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7501	It means that a business procedure is established and that it is respected and that the responsibility of all those who have violated or who are to be in breach of this procedure is sought.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7502	Come on, let's get this session over with.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7503	You're free to go.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7504	I think that the College has already tried to meet, if it has not met and failed to modify the earlier agreement that was at the beginning when the commission was formed and therefore the old rules remain, which is the ratio of 3 we choose, and remain to the House of Peoples 2 and that is the purpose that should be chosen here by the three if you will, unless there is a completely clear situation why there is no Bosnia and Herzegovina complete team in the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7505	Here's Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7506	With all due respect to this intervention by my colleague Grabovac, respecting the logical order to say the priorities in the proposals of the conclusions, my conclusion was a more principled nature and therefore has the advantage, because it regulates the relationship more fully to say the setting up to this problem. The proposal is to re-negotiate this issue and that our request goes to establish the responsibility of those who brought us into the situation that two days before the continue session in the Council of Europe we do not have the composition of the delegation. I suggest we make the point first, because it's the most basic of nature. Everyone else depends on him, so he has to make a statement first. If it doesn't pass, then let's go to these other conclusions. 92
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7507	Thank you. I suggest we make a statement on this conclusion by Mr. Neimralija. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Just wait till we count. I mean, this doesn't make sense. Wait till we see. We have to be subjective. Who's from the Federation for? Who's from Republika Srpska for? I'm just finishing up a session. It's okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7508	The agenda item is not finished. There's no quorum. It can only be interrupted and it can continue. Please don't. I'm asking the College to determine what's going on with the fate of this session. Please. Excuse me. I'm asking, I'm a representative of the College to determine what's going on with this session's fate. The sitting cannot end with an unexhausted agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7509	There's no quorum going on.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-06-20-0.u7510	The session is adjourned. We're moving on. Thank you. Thank you. Done. ............................................................................................................
