ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7511	Honorable gentlemen, MPs, distinguished guests, what confuses me as a man and makes me think more and more, and where I find myself in which country I am in is the fact that our agendas are increasingly like Article 105, although it is known that this article writes, and that the distinguished gentlemen in this order should know that this member should only be used in exceptional cases when it is necessary to pass a law that requires explicit urgency or is insignificant so that there is no need to implement the commission phase. The question of the chairman and the Kolegijum is – are these laws that are now in force? That's the first question and the second question. If the function in which the urgency and approach to today's agenda are manifested. The third question – does this mean that here and now we sitting around don't know how to think about ourselves and our country in a way acceptable to ourselves? If that's the case, and I'm starting to think that someone thinks they are, then obviously this institution needs to be changed. I think you gentlemen owe this House to you who called the session and those who asked for the application of Article 105 where that urgency is if the laws work, where that indifference is if the second part of the article is 105. Rules of Procedure applied and why are you doing this to us? Why do you gentlemen take the right of me as an MP to take an argumential part in the adoption of extremely important laws for the state, and my argumentary participation is based on the voices of a people who trust me to give it up? What right do you gentlemen have to take away my basic human right- the right to think? Who has the right to do that? Why does he use that right? And is all this farce, gentlemen? Farce of democracy. You owe me an explanation for what you're doing. I want an explanation to know what to do next. You can't ask me to be the man someone wants to think is an amputated brain. I want to take part in an argument in the work. I want to make reasoned remarks, I want to be heard and I want to be explained if you accept why, 3 if you refuse why. I ask you to explain in detail what I asked because it depends on my further appearance in this congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7512	I would like to thank Mr. Mirko Banjac, the esteemed representative. Is anyone else picking up? If no one answers, I'll close the debate on the agenda. Since there has been no change around here, no proposal for new agendas, so I think the agenda has been adopted the way you got it. And now let me explain why I called the session in a shorter time than it was supposed to be, why it is. So these are the laws declared by the High Representative. They function, they're on a temporary basis. The procedure has been explained to us, not to ourselves, but to all of us that these laws can only be adopted as they are. So the only procedure appropriate to Article 105. When we adopt them they become to say our property and this home and then we can have a much more effective impact on them, then I think we can also make proposals for amending and supplementing the spirit of the law, and that is why I think it is urgent, and then we are asked to do so, there are laws that are very urgent because of the obligations that Bosnia and Herzegovina and the member of the Council of Europe and as a potential candidate for other memberships in other European integrations that need to be adopted and that should be adopted by different rules of the game. So the agenda has been adopted. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad. 1. MP questions and answers or actually to read the agenda complete for a stenogram. 1. Agents' questions and answers 2. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure (Article 105). Rules of Procedure, 3. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure (Article 105). Rules of Procedure, 4. The Council of Ministers' request to consider the proposal for a law on legal assistance in official co-operation in criminal matters between Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska and Brcko Bosnia and Herzegovina's District by emergency procedure (Article 105). Rules of Procedure, 5 / 1 Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure (Article 105). Rules of Procedure, 6. Request for consideration of the Law on Administrative Appropriations and Tariffs of Administrative Fees under Emergency Procedure (Article 105) Rules of Procedure) - Proposer Mariofil Ljubić, and you can join whoever you want, 7. Request for an examination of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes of BiH by a hasty procedure (Article 105). Adviser Mariofil Ljubić, 8 / 8 Request for an examination of the BiH Court Act under emergency procedure (Article 105. Rules of Procedure) – Proposer Mariofil Ljubić, 4 9. Request to consider the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Framework Law on the privatisation of businesses and banks in Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure (Article 105. Rules of Procedure) – Proposer Mariofil Ljubić, 10. Request for an examination of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the fill-in of the vacancy of members of the BiH Presidency by emergency procedure (Article 105. Rules of Procedure – Proposer of the House of People We are moving to the agenda if you are, to remind you, that all these laws have been adopted by the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Ad. 1. Representatives Boro Bjelobrk and Mr Ibrahim Đedović have received questions and answers. Perhaps the answer that Mr. Boro Bjelobrk received is not complete, but if we do not get a satisfactory answer we will again ask for full information to be delivered to us, because it is also the right of representatives to simply the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in cooperation with the institutions of the entities to give a satisfactory answer to the representatives of BH Parliament regardless of whose authority it is. For today, today's session before the start of its parliamentary issues in writing was referred to by the distinguished representative Mr. Muhamed Begović. Whether one of the honourable MPs wants to ask a representative's question and answer today or whether you have a reference to the previous one. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Boro Bjelobrk, and let the distinguished representative of Mrs. Bahrija Osmanović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7513	I have a first question, is this the chairman of the Council of Ministers something angry with us. Thank you. There are three letters sent to Mr Dragan Mikerević, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, in the documents I received on the issue. In return, there is no answer. I'm really asking if a man is angry. Secondly, he's not in the session today so I can at least orally discuss what's going on. In this regard, I would like to refer to the position of the Obdusk of Bosnia and Herzegovina that rightly in the process means quick action without undue delay, and I will remind you that I have been conducting this procedure since 19 May 2001. Somewhere or Mr. Mikerević or I are making a mistake in estimating speed. And second, to be guided to be impartial means to make sure that someone's prejudices are not a factor in deciding. I was just about to discuss with him today whether I was under some prejudice or maybe him. Secondly, Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the effort you've made this time, but I will remind you that you have already broken the deadline from the Rules of Procedure under which you were obliged to take measures to get answers from the Council of Ministers to the questions of the Bosnia and Herzegovina arms trade review either from the inside or from the outside, and also to examine countries where 5 can uncertain a diploma from the Bosnian Herzegovian universities. I guess that's not such a hard question, so I have to wait a year and a half again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7514	I would like to thank Mr. boriti Bjelobrk, the esteemed representative. We'll update this to get an answer to this question as soon as possible. The word has a distinguished representative, Mrs. Bahrija Osmanović, and may the honourable representative of Mr. Sead Buturović be prepared. If anyone else wants to sign up.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7515	Dear gentlemen, I don't know if it makes sense to go out for a pay phone and ask so many times a parliamentary question. I don't know if I've asked the same parliamentary question four or five times that I didn't get an answer to today. I ask the Council of Ministers to answer me whether I can get an answer, if I can't, I can't, if I can give you finally send that answer to the asked parliamentary question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7516	I thank the distinguished representative, Mrs. Bahrija Osmanović. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Sead Buturović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7517	Dear Members of the College, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, gentlemen of the delegations, MPs, would particularly be apostrophe over this issue by representatives of the international community sitting here and means of information. I'll dati you a little introduction, and I'll ask you a question and suggest a resolution. The situation of activities financed from taxes and contributions by health care, education, MUP, culture is significantly different in individual cantons in the Federation and throughout the country, and this is particularly expressed in Sarajevo compared to all other cantons. I'll set an example. In Sarajevo canton, among other health workers, a regress for an annual holiday of 400 KM dinars was distributed. In the same canton, there are about 200 medicines and more on the list, and there are 200 that go to the burden of the fund. In the HN canton, and so a little better situation is the same bad and in other cantons in the same branch the situation is next. Health care professionals receive irregularly and with a great delay in personal income. The institutions receive material costs with a delay of several months, and to say that only a collective contract signed by an independent health workers union with the federal government over three years ago is only applied in the past few months. On the HN canton, what's the worst doesn't work at all is a list of medicines that go on the burden of the fund that makes it even more complicated and worse anyway. The above examples show that two neighbouring cantons violate fundamental human rights which is in direct contrast with the UN Universal 6 declaration, and a European declaration of human rights, which the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a full member of the Council of Europe since 24.4.2002, are obliged to respect. This example, as well as a number of others, shows that in such a difficult socio-economic situation, this decentralised state governance system cannot function in the interest of all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and once again gives strong support to all those struggling to strengthen and strengthen the functioning of state institutions. I therefore propose to the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the possibility that certain types of solidarity should be established at the state level in order to allow the above-mentioned activities to function with approximately uniform conditions. This is an explanation for my question to the Council of Ministers which reads: – When will Bosnia and Herzegovina as an international entity guarantee and achieve full protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms? That's the question. And I can take it today, you'll get one resolution in the context of it, and I'd like the House to declare it. I submit the resolution under Article 121, etc. Not to read it, and it reads: – The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina guarantees human rights to all citizens of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and thus obliges all state and entity authorities to provide mechanisms to protect them. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7518	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Sead Buturović. The resolution will be shared with all MPs and will receive the treatment it needs. Is anyone else answering the question? If he doesn't answer, I'll conclude and thank you. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. Ad. 2. The Council of Ministers' request to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure (Article 105). Rules of Procedure) This is therefore about the request of the Council of Ministers for the examination of the laws under emergency procedure under Article 105. Does the proposal for a representative of the Council of Ministers have a need to dà an explanation? There isn't. So it's the same thing about a law that was declared by the High Representative on our provisional basis that it would become our law with a normal period of time so it wouldn't be temporary and that we could change it. We should consider it today and I hope to adopt it. I'm opening a debate on a request for Article 105. I hereby conclude the discussion of the request for consideration pursuant to Article 105. 7 We should now declare whether we accept the request for a hearing under Article 105. Who's in? Thank you. Would you mind? No abstentions? There are no 36 who are present 34 for, without votes against, without abstentions. So we accepted a request from the Council of Ministers that this law be considered in accordance with Article 105. We move on to the debate on the Bill Proposal in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? If no one hears from me, I will conclude the debate and I suggest that we enter into a plea on the draft of the Law on the Ombudsman for human rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? No abstentions? There are no 37 who voted 37 for, no votes against. So we adopted the proposal for a Law of the Ombudsman for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There's no need for an entity vote. Thank you. Moving to point 3. Ad. 3. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure (Article 105). Rules of Procedure) I am opening a discussion of the request for consideration under Rule 105. Is anyone picking up? If no one hears from me, I'll close the debate and I suggest we make a statement about the request for a debate under Article 105. Rules of Procedure. Who's in? Thank you. Would you mind? No abstentions? There's no of the 36 who voted 36 was for. So unanimously. Thank you. We're moving on to a discussion of the law itself. Who's answering for a word? If no one hears from me, I will conclude the debate and I suggest we make a statement on the proposal for a state service law in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's in? Thank you. Would you mind? No abstentions? There are no 37 present 36 for, no votes against, no abstentions. So we passed a unanimous law. There's no need for an entity vote. Thank you. 8 We move to point 4. Ad. 4. The Council of Ministers' request to consider the proposal for a law on legal assistance in official co-operation in criminal matters between Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska and Brcko Bosnia and Herzegovina's District by emergency procedure (Article 105). Rules of Procedure) I am opening a debate on the request for consideration in accordance with Article 105 of the Rules of Procedure. Who's answering for a word? If no one hears from me, I'll close the argument and I suggest we make a statement. Mr. Mirko Banjac's honorary representative has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7519	Dear Mr. Chairman, I just have to tell you that I did not take part in the vote and that you did not record it because you did not answer my questions in the order I asked and the second reason is that there is a violation of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first law you adopted, instead of the Council of Ministers stands the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As a man MP and president of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, I cannot participate in the business of direct violation of the Constitution, because I have sworn here that I will honor the Constitution of this state. Since that's not what I'm allowed to do, I'm not in a position to plead. So I'm unable, personally I think the laws need Bosnia and Herzegovina. I personally believe that they are in force, functioning, and I personally think that we should have been able to discuss these laws here, because I think that they also violated the concept, parity and rotation that they were one of the main elements of the establishment of the Dayton Peace Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7520	I would like to thank Mr. Mirko Banjac's distinguished representative. If it's a technical mistake, she's right. You can always run changes and additions. So there is a debate on the very request for consideration in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. Is there anyone else? Is he answering his word? If no one is answering, I suggest we make a statement about the procedure for the motion for a debate on Article 105. Rules of Procedure. It means an emergency procedure. Who's in? Thank you. Would you mind? No abstentions? So of the 37 that are present, 34 for, without votes against, without the abstentions, we have adopted a request for a hearing in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. We move on to a discussion about ourselves, not all we need is a technical correction and it will correct when we prepare the law for publication, so. We figured it out, no need. So we continue the debate on the draft law on legal aid and official co-operation in criminal matters between Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republika Srpska and Brcko District of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 9 Who Answers the Word? If no one hears from me, I'm closing the debate and I suggest we make a statement about the bill. Who's in? Thank you. Would you mind? No abstentions? There are no 38 present 35 for, no votes against, no abstentions. So we adopted the Bill on Legal Assistance and Official Co-operation in Criminal Matters between Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska and Brcko of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. Moving to point 5. Ad.5.Requirement of the Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure (Article 105). Rules of Procedure) We have two proposals within this point on which we can conduct a single debate, and we will make the statement in particular. The reason is because these two texts are set out at different Council of Ministers meetings. a) Proposal for a law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, which was adopted in the Service on 24 June and b) Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Election Law that you received today at the beginning of the session. Did all the MPs get these materials? The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Adem Borić. That's what I meant by that. I suggest here whether it's enough time for everyone to get these out of the service. Well, here they say they didn't all win, so there wouldn't be any confusion. Or we could work, skip this point, do some more laws, then take a break. So, I suggest that we skip this one, we keep doing a few more points, that the services multiply a sufficient number of copies if they don't have, that we share a short break maybe for lunch and, in the meantime, make these preparations. So we skip this point 5, we go to point 6, and the service in the meantime, does Mr. Borić agree with this? So point 6. Ad. Six. Request for consideration of the Law on administrative fees and tariffs of administrative fees under emergency procedure (Article 105) Rules of Procedure) I propose for technical reasons. I, as a proposal, consider the days to be necessary for any opening presentation. I am opening a debate on the requirement for this law to be considered under Article 105. Rules of Procedure. Who's answering for a word? If no one's answering, I'm closing the argument. 10 I propose that we make it clear that this law is being considered in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. Who's in? Thank you. Would you mind? No suzdržati? - 1 The vote was 32.1 abstention, no votes against. There's no need for an entity vote. So the request was passed by 32 votes in favour, with no votes against and one abstention. Thank you. I move to the debate on the very proposal for a law on administrative fees and tariffs on administrative fees under emergency procedure. Who's answering for a word? If no one answers my word, I'll close the debate. I propose that we make clear on the proposal for a law on administrative fees and tariffs on administrative fees under the urgent procedure. Who's in? Thank you. Would you mind? No abstentions? There are no 37 who pleaded 35 for, without votes against, without abstentions. So the House of Representatives passed the Law on Administrative Taxes and the tariffs of administrative fees under emergency procedure. Thank you. We're going to the 7th item of the agenda. Ad. Seven. Request for an examination of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes of BiH by emergency procedure (Article 105. Rules of Procedure) There is no need for an introductory explanation. I'm opening a debate on a request to consider it as planned 105. Who's answering for a word? The word has a respected representative, Mr Mirko Mijatović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7521	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues, I would like to ask for an explanation. These are the laws declared by the High Representative, and we need to confirm them in order to become ours as you said. There is one place to propose the Council of Ministers, and another you. Why couldn't it be all of us? I don't understand why it's such a procedure. I don't really understand the procedure. And I think it's unusual, so I'd like you to really explain to me how it came to be that you're the only one who proposes and that there's the Council of Ministers. Maybe it's some special relationship with a High Representative we don't know, and we'd like to know. I mean, at least we have to say something. You're saying there's no need for an introduction. I think we could've done this on the phone and not done 11 of us doing unnecessary expenses. It takes a little bit to explain. I mean everyone. I'd like to know if the other colleagues know it, how it comes to that. It's no big deal, but at least we know.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7522	I would like to thank Mr. Mirko Mijatović, the esteemed representative. I also offered other colleagues to be legislators since the Council of Ministers didn't propose to us, I wanted, I thought it was more appropriate for us to propose, than to propose it to us to the House of Peoples who have already adopted them and I tell the Ev Oz of this all the following however he wants to join, let it be our joint proposal. So I think it's more appropriate for us to propose than for the House of Peoples to propose these laws to us. So, since it was a shorter term than a regular convocation, that's how it was done. Here I suggest you all be the legislators of these next laws, if that's okay with you. So we'll text. So now it's a matter of urgency request. Is there anyone else? There isn't. I'm closing up. I propose that we plead, to support this law being considered in accordance with Article 105. Who's in? Thank you. Would you mind? No abstentions? No thanks. Of the 36 who are present, 34 is for, without votes against and without abstentions. So we've accepted an emergency review request. We're moving on to a debate about the bill itself. Who's calling for a hearing? Niko one's answering. I'm closing the debate. I propose that we make clear on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on administrative fees for BiH. Who's in? Thank you. Would you mind? No abstentions? There are no 36 who voted 35 for, no votes against, no abstentions. So we passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes of BiH. Thank you. We're moving to the 8th point of the agenda. Ad. 8. Request for an examination of the BiH Court Act under emergency procedure (Article 105. Rules of Procedure) Proposers most of the representatives of this House. 12 I am opening a debate on the request to be considered under Article 105. Who's calling? Niko one's answering. I suggest we make it clear that we accept the debate under Article 105. Who's in? Thank you. Would you mind? No abstentions? There are no 36 who are present 31 for, without votes against, without abstentions. So we accepted article 105, an emergency hearing. I'm opening a debate on this bill. Who's answering for a word? It means a debate about the text of the law itself. If no one hears from me, I'll close the debate and I suggest we make a statement about the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's in? I thank you. Do you mind? No abstentions? - 3 abstentions of 36 who voted, 31 for, without votes against, without abstentions. Here it is suggested that it would be good to check the entity. Who's from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina for? Which one of the Republika Srpska for? Thank you from Federation 26 for, from Republika Srpska 6 to, up 31, so we have the required majority. The Law on the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina was passed. Thank you. We're moving to agenda nine. It's Ad. Nine. Request to consider the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Framework Law on the privatisation of enterprises and banks in Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure (Article 105. Rules of Procedure) Here are all those who want to join. I am opening a debate on the request for an emergency procedure, Article 105. Rules of Procedure on the work of the BiH House of Representatives. Who's answering for a word? Niko one's answering. I suggest we plead an emergency procedure request. Who's in? Thank you. Would you mind? No abstentions? There are no 37 who voted, 35 for, no votes against, no abstentions. This house has been adopted to discuss matters of urgency. 13 We move on to discussion and decision-making on the bill. Who's calling for a debate on the bill? No Niko's answering. I'm closing the debate. I propose that we state on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Framework Law on the Privatisation of Business and Banks in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? There are no 37 who are here, 36 for, without votes against, without abstentions. I agree that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Framework Law on the privatisation of businesses and banks in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been adopted. Thank you. We're moving to 10 points, that's Ad. Ten. A request to consider the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on filling the vacant seat of members of the BiH presidency was proposed by the House of Peoples, here are fellow MPs. I am opening a debate on the request for a debate on the need for urgent consideration of this law in accordance with the procedure of Article 105. The rules of procedure of this house. Who's answering for a word? No Niko's answering. I am concluding and proposing that we plead that we discuss this law under Article 105. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? – 2 Are there any abstentions? There are no abstentions of 37 who voted, 35 for, 2 against, without abstentions, so you don't need an entity. So we've accepted Article 105's procedure. I am opening a debate on this bill of amendments and amendments to the law. Who's answering for a word? If no one hears from me, I'm closing the debate and I suggest we make a statement about this bill. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? – 2 Are there any abstentions? There isn't. Of the 37 who pleaded 34 for – 2 Priotims, without abstentions. So, there is no need for us to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on filling the vacant seat of members of the BiH presidency. This concludes the 10th point of the agenda. 14 We are left with the need to return to point 5. Ad.5. Proposal for an election law I suggest, is a half-hour break enough? So, I'm taking a half-hour break to conduct our consultations and that everyone who doesn't have to get this bill from the Service. So, half an hour. Let's continue with the 5th agenda. [[PAUZA]] This is a request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Act under an urgent procedure under Article 105. It works essentially under a. and b. and essentially that's two points. So, we would have to formally declare that the floor is also available by emergency procedure and by b. I propose, first of all, as regards this amendment law and the additions to the BiH Election Law, which was sent on 24.06. this is the first part. The Proposer is the Council of Ministers. I just, unfortunately, will have to call them too to explain. There's a need for us to be clear. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Act, which has 18 members. To know what, it's basically the implementation of those three High Representative decisions. That's the first part. To clarify the material that carries the date 24.06.2002, so we know which one it is. So, the one with 18 members. We are discussing the urgency of this first part of the bill on amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law, which has 18 members, so that there is no confusion. Is anyone answering for a debate on the need for urgency of this law in accordance with Article 105. If no one answers, I suggest we make a statement. Who is to consider this floor a) in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure on the work of this house? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. Of the 34 who pleaded 34 for, without votes against and without abstentions. So we agreed to discuss this proposal for amendments and additions to the Electoral Act (a) in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure on the work of this house. So now we're moving on to a debate on this bill of amendments and amendments to the Electoral Law. So this material that has 18 members. Who's answering for a word? The word has been respected by Mr Miloš Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7523	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that everything we've done so far has been really sad and ugly. The largest institution of this state has been valued, so it's been valued in some way by the state, and we as MPs have been valued, valued and humiliated, but that's what it is. On the agenda is the proposal to amend and supplement Election 15 laws. We know that a large number of members of this law are already in application. But one thing that, let me say, is not clear to me, which is why we're talking about article 17, which is why it's in constituency number 5. So constituency number 5 to elect MPs to the RS, which is why the number of delegates is down from 12 to 11. If we know how to determine the number of mandates in one constituency, then I really don't understand why it was done because the number of mandates is determined on the basis of the electoral body. I'm sure there's a number of voters in this constituency, the number of people who have the right to vote that's been increased. So the number of voters has increased and the number of seats has decreased from 12 to 11. The other thing, but if we have on the agenda changes and additions to this law, I don't understand why the Council of Ministers or anyone else who could suggest it, it's not my fault that we didn't put the Republic Election Commission on the agenda. The Republic Election Commission has not been elected by us, and according to the Electoral Law, the Republic Election Commission has appointed this home. So, already, if we've accepted everything the High Representative has brought in, which is why we're not to appoint an election commission, because now the question is simply being asked. Who is this committee responsible for? Whom is the report to and to whom is it appropriate? Probably according to what's been done, it means, to the high representative. I'd like to, I don't know if anyone from the Council of Ministers should say this second part, the second one of this amendment and the addition of the Election Law can be explained. What I saw was just a little bit more elaborated on this first part of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7524	I thank the honourable representative, Mr Miloš Jovanović. The word has a distinguished representative, sir, no, giving up. Does anyone else want a word? It's about this first part of the members. If no one's answering, I'm closing the argument. I propose that we make a statement on this bill of amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law. This is a) material that has 18 members. So there's no confusion. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? Of the 36 who pleaded 33 for no votes against two abstentions. I agree that we have adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law. This part one, so 18 members. Thank you. b) The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law is a matter of material established by the Council of Ministers. This material shall also be required to be considered in accordance with the emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. It is necessary to first determine whether this material will be distributed under Rule 105 of this Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Adem Borić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7525	Dear ladies and gentlemen, therefore, the SDA's Club Member has requested a half-hour break so that he can read this law that the Council of Ministers has delivered to us today on the benches, so that we know what we will vote on. After a quick analysis of the legal text, we have come to the realization that this law should not go by emergency procedure today because we have some 16 questions to be referred to the Council of Ministers, because, according to our court, the solutions in this law are contrary to the Constitution and the declared amendments. In our opinion, this principle, which has been promoted in the very law in Article 10, point 12, has already been abandoned in the same law in Article 16.16a) because we are not clear, we have been dealing with the calculus and mathematics that it is possible in the Mediterranean Canton, the Herzegovic-Neretva, the Sarajevo Canton under this law, Article 19, let us say, that in the Mediterranean Canton number 6 delegates to be elected from the order of the Bosniak people 1 – 3 from the order of the Croatian people and 1 from the order of the Serbian people and 1 from the order of the others. For example, point 7 in... canton counts 7 of the Herzegovina-Neretva canton is selected 6 delegates, including one in the Bosniak order, 3 in the order of the Croatian people and 1 in the order of the Serbian people and 1 in the order of the others. In... The Sarajevo Canton is elected 11 delegates of that 3 in the Bosniak order, 1 in the order of Croatia, 5 in the order of the Serb people, 2 in the order of others not to read. I could mention the Un-San canton. Our... 91st year and the situation of 91st year tells us something different. That's why I'm suggesting. To hold a debate and get an answer from the Vijećaministar to these questions so that they can be more clearly identified.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7526	I would like to thank Mr. Ademo Borić, the honourable representative. Does anyone else appear in the first part of the procedure to be discussed under Article 105. Rules of Procedure on the work of this house. I call on representatives from the Council of Ministers. Is that from your area? Can you... simply on behalf of the Council of Ministers answer these questions that are raised here. The word has a minister, Mr. Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7527	Respected Presidency, honourable MPs, allow me to say a few words about the law of amendment and addition of the BiH Election Law which set out the Council of Ministers at its last session and referred this to the BiH Parliament for an urgent procedure. This is, in fact, part of the Electoral Law relating to the adopted amendments to the entity constitution, which refers to the choice of indirect choice, notably the president and vice president of the Federation of BiH, the election of the House of the Federation of BiH and the election of delegates in the Council of Peoples of Republika Srpska. These are, therefore, indirect elections for certain functions at BiH level, i.e. both entities. This was left out by the High Representative from those declared who, I suppose, had just been discussed, also, concerning direct elections, to amendments to the constitution of one and another entity. This part of the Electoral Law was left to the BiH Council of Ministers to implement in a brief procedure and that BiH would have a complete electoral law. So, as soon as we are not late, all those participating in the elections and political parties and individuals would have a complete electoral law so that they could be prepared and removed in good time for the upcoming elections in the election campaign that will soon begin. These amendments and additions to the laws that are now under consideration were made in collaboration with the OHR and there was this proposal that is today on the table before you. The election of presidents and vice presidents of the Federation. You've seen here which version was defined by the Council of Ministers. It means that it is regulated in Article 9.13 that the election of President and Vice-President of the Federation 17 BiH is at least one third of the delegates of the club representatives of the constituent peoples in the House of the Federation's peoples propose candidates for the seats of the president and vice president of the Federation. Article 9.14 discusses how this works in the House of Representatives and further procedure 9 in Articles 9.15 and 9.16. Article 2 of the proposed law amending and supplementing the law provides for sub-chapter B of choice in the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH and here it is said that the House according to constitutional amendments to the Constitution of the Federation of BiH, that the House numbers 58 delegates, of which 17 from all three constituent people and 7 from the ranks of others. It is also here that members of 10.11. are told that representatives of the Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian people and others in every canton assembly choose delegates from their constituent people in the canton. Further, elaborate mathematics means pure mathematics what Bospodin Borić asked how to get the number of cantons from the constitutive and other peoples to this 58-digit figure. So here's pure math. If something in mathematics is wrong, then it's a technical mistake, but I think Article 10.12 has been elaborated in fact the process of electing delegates in the cantons in order of all three constituent peoples and order of others. You have here in article 19.16. Exactly how much each canton selects delegates in the House of Nations according to this formula given in Article 10.12. Finally, we have introduced in Article 3 after Chapter XI a new Chapter XIa is added. which is the choice of delegates in the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia sub-chapter (a) and here it is true that the home, i.e. the Council of the People of the Republic of RS, numbers 28 delegates of which 8 of all three constituent peoples. Article 11.11. of the Sub-chapter states that members of the Council of People shall be elected by the relevant delegates in the National Assembly and shall be further worked out in Article 11.12 in which the lists are established, etc. It was on the Council of Ministers and other variants on the development of constitutional amendments to one and the other, i.e. mainly in the Federation of BiH at the Constitution of the Federation of BiH, because there was a greater possibility of combining until the proposal for the election of delegates in the RS Council was no longer variations except for this one that is here today. The Council of Ministers decided that, given that the law has put in place an emergency procedure that cannot be sent in variations and decided on this proposal that you have received here today. We propose that this law goes according to an emergency procedure, as we enter into a time teat, related to the elections and that it would be good for BiH to have one round-up legal procedure, i.e. the electoral law. I hope that, after today's adoption of the amendments and the addition of this law, we will also make a consolidated text of this law, which is likely to agree on how and how to reach the consolidated text of the electoral law in order to make it available to all political parties participating in the elections to look at everything in one place, the complete procedure concerning the elections, which will be held on 5 October. Of course, there are various things here and probably in Parliament as was the Council of Ministers of Different Views that some things can be regulated differently and they can indeed, but based on the opinion of the Council of Ministers' Legal Service, it has been estimated that these amendments to the laws that have been offered to you today are in accordance with the Constitution of BiH and the Constitution of one and the other entities after the amendments adopted, which, in part, were declared by the High Representative and were adopted in the Parliament of Republika Srpska. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7528	I thank Minister Mihajlović. I think Mr. Borić wasn't talking about technicals. He's more about strategic. The words of Mr. Borić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7529	I didn't, of course, even get an answer to the asked question. It is not the first time that this Council of Ministers has violated the Constitution and the principles that are precisely laid down in this law. The only comfort left to me is to vote against and to have a sadifact...
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7530	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Borić. The word has been respected by Mr Miloš Jovanović. The debate is still about listing 105.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7531	Ladies and gentlemen, for as long as I've had time to look at the amendments and the additions to this election law, it seems to me that, as far as this law is concerned, he should be in charge of the entity assembly. Here, look at Chapter IX (a) says the president and vice president of the Federation of BiH, so that I say it should probably be considered at the Federation of BiH assembly. Chapter b) The home of the people of the Federation of BiH, as well as the election of delegates in the Council of the People of the Republic of RS, means the Council of the People of the Republic of RS, so this should have been considered by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. So I don't see her here in any member that's the jurisdiction of this house. So, I think that the amendments and additions to this election law as proposed here should be in the jurisdiction of the entity and by the time I got out, here I saw a technical... says Article 11.11. Members of the National Council are elected by the relevant club delegates in the NS, it seems to me that a club of MPs should stand in the NS is just one correction, but my suggestion is that this should be held in the entity parliaments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7532	Thank you. Who else appears in this first procedural section? Since no one's answering, I'm closing the argument. I suggest we make it clear that this law is being considered in accordance with Article 105. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Thank you. Are there any abstentions? Of the 36 who pleaded 23 for - against 6-2 abstentions. So you need an entity statement. Who's from RS for? Who's from the Federation for? From the Federation of BiH 16 for – from RS 8 for. So we've accepted that we're dispersing in accordance with Article 105. I'm opening a debate in accordance with Article 105 of the Emergency Procedure, a debate on the law. 19 The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7533	Gentlemen chairman, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, anything to say will be excessive. But I have to say this. Taking into account individual solutions to the provisions of amendments and additions to the Electoral Law offered by the Council of Ministers and considering those provisions, I consider it necessary to allow the introduction of amendments to individual solutions. First of all, next. In Article 3(3) and Article 3 of the amendment to the amendments in Article 11(10), the amendments and additions should be more specifically specified. In fact, the Council of Nations is based on parity so that each constituent nation has the same number of representatives. That's a pretty easy question for us here. Three constituent nations and we can calculate that. But they'll read the layman and say maybe there's two or 14 constituent peoples times 8 of 18 plus 4 is 22 times 14 we'll go to the table and some members of the council of the people. I therefore propose that the composition of the people is based on parity so that each constituent nation of Srbin, Bošnjak and Hrvat has the same number of representatives, i.e. this second part of the sentence is too high the same number of representatives of the parity. Article 2 The council of the people consists of eight members of the Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian peoples. I think it's more correct and it should stand for a reason not to, we know, you know, you ministers, but tomorrow someone will read and say what I said at the beginning. Article 11.11. Members of the National Council shall be elected by the relevant delegation club in the National Assembly. Also, I think that here we should specify what the relevant club of delegates is. Here it is understood that the respective club of delegates is with a particular constitutive people. It's the same here that's unaccounted for, so it leaves a lot of room for controversy and ambiguity. Article 11 point 12. In the third sentence, candidates cannot be MPs to the NS or council members of the municipality. It seems rather vaguely precise. The candidate doesn't necessarily mean he'll be a member of the Council of People. He's a potential member of the Council of Nations. So, with this, it is said that if, eventually, a member of the congregation of the municipality or a council member of the congregation, you cannot even be nominated, that is, to be a candidate in the National Council. That leaves room for controversy and it wasn't likely your intention. If it is, then you need to clarify that it is, then give precise, decadent clarifications. Article 1114 of the last sentence shall be spoken in the event of termination of the term of office of members of the Council of the People. It says, unless such a candidate is present, he shall organise the elections for the relevant constitutional people in accordance with Articles 11.3. and 11.4. of this Law. What I do know, it seems to me that these members of the law we adopted earlier are not a precise choice, but amendments and additions have been told how they will be elected and these are members from 11.11. to 11.12. I believe that this should enable the amendment to be tabled and that today we first this text that is not, does not reflect the best situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7534	I would like to thank Mr. Malkić, the honourable representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Sead Buturović, and then representatives of the Council of Ministers may, at the end of the discussion, answer these questions. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7535	I'll say it, but I know it'll all be the way it'll be. He may not drink water, but he should say. What Mr. Minister was saying is probably a combination of numbered, you know, globally. When it's said it has to be 50... 17 of the order of one, the second and the third people, and then the combination was firsted, but at the edge of the canton. There's no math here. You can certainly do that, I say. What kind of math is that? from the canton where I come from is one Bošnjak. There's no communicator. That's not true. So, it doesn't certainly reflect the population census in 91, I say, it's only a sixth. You did make a combination of being 17 Bošnjak at Federation level okay, but you combined among cantons at the expense of the canton population that's again a situation of basic law, again I'm on human rights. I'm sure that's not true. At least there must be two Bošnjak, and I think that Mr. Minister, that math is not good for you, it's not true, and you don't know how to work well. This isn't math, math is exact science, no philosophy. Two and two are four can't be six. But here it looks like three and four and seventeen and sixteen etc. So, you did well, but at the expense of knowing the population of the cantons of certain cantons and then weighing it to turn out to be 17 - 17 - 17. That's not good. Please, that's it, I have to say it for the population I represent. I have to say it. I can't reconcile that our tenth part is down. That's not true.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7536	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Sead Buturović. Rijeka has Minister Mr. Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7537	First, I would like to respond to the honourable MP Jovanović who gave the opinion that this law should, these amendments and the additions to the law, be adopted by entities rather than by the BiH Parliament. It is also an obligation for entities to adopt these amendments and supplement the law each for their respective part, so that the RS will adopt amendments and amendments to the law relating to the election of delegates in the Council of Peoples and the Federation of BiH will adopt these two chapters, related to the election of the Federation president and vice president, as well as the election of delegates in the House of Peoples of the Federation Parliament. So it's their obligation to harmonize. I have already been in contact with representatives of the RS who have said that most likely their present, the current elections of the law included these amendments since they knew when they had passed the electoral law for these amendments that it had included and that there would probably not be a need to bring new amendments and additions, but they will look again if they had to do so, they will probably very quickly at the Parliament of the RS to bring these changes. Most here, there are objections and opinions on the election of delegates to the Federation of BiH parliament. There's a little bit of illogicality here. Here, the illogicalness is also that the canton here in Sarajevo is Sarajevo, which is just a canton, a canton of IX when you see that 11 delegates are elected including 3 in the Bosniak order, 1 in the order of the Croatian and 5 in the order of the Serbian people and 2 in the order of the others. The representation of Srbin in the Federation of BiH apparently from all cantons the largest here in Canton IX, so these 17 of these formula delegates had to be found as many cantons as possible. At first glance, it's illogical. Obviously, the structure in the canton is not what it is, but at the level of BiH the 17 must be located in each canton and therefore there has been this mathematics helped by the OHR and the Election Commission together with members of the Council of Ministers to reach this formula and this election. Is she righteous, righteous, etc. It can now open a debate. Discuss whether one canton should have one more Bošnjak less Srbin, the other vice versa, etc. but a row of 17 as far as the constitutional amendments are planned must be incorporated into the Federation of BiH. So, 17 from every constitutive nation, that is, from the order of the others... This is the reason why 21 proceedings have taken place so that there is no confusion, development, development of this member, which is elaborated on 19.16a) and is precisely known in advance without any calculations as many cantons as cantons and can be represented in the House of Peoples of BiH. Whether this is the happiest solution, the Council of Ministers has taken a stand to offer this to Parliament, and if there have been different opinions, perhaps different finesse. But it essentially comes down to 58 delegates that need to be deployed to 10 cantons. That was the essence of our proposal and attitude. It was, I must tell you, there was a variant where a certain number of cantons had one, only one, more, or less from one or the other constitutive people, but in general there must be 58 delegates from 10 cantons. Once again, I wouldn't go into the controversy if it was ideally good, but the Council of Ministers has accepted this variant that we are offering to you today. It was big at first. We have had three meetings of the Council of Ministers of Extraordinary Sessions to come to this proposal agreed upon. The technical error is what Mr Jovanović said there not to be a delegate in article 11.11. but MPs, it should be first, it is a technical mistake. So, members of the Council of People choose... the club of MPs in the National Assembly is Article 11.11. Article 11 of the RS, Article 11.12, is to give the procedure for selecting candidates for the House of Peoples. We have defined ourselves, together with the OHR's opinion, that candidates cannot be MPs in the National Assembly, council members in the assembly of municipalities. As a rule, they can't be the bearers of two electoral functions, so we've defined that they can't even be candidates. It's a proposal from the Council of Ministers. Finally, and that candidates cannot be selected, i.e. they must give up some functions if elected, etc. This is already stated in the Electoral Law in previous chapters that are not an integral part of these amendments and additions. When there's a complete electoral law, then you can see it's not about each other. Article 11.14 here is clear, at least that's what I think, that if there is no choice, unless there are more candidates on the list... from the list, new elections are being held per member as regulated by section 11 and Article 11.12. So, when the list is exhausted, there are no more reserve candidates, then the election is repeated as provided for in Article 11th point 11th and Article 11th point 12. That's the way it's supposed to be. You don't need a council of nations here based on parity. So every constituent nation has the same number of representatives. No constitutional peoples are listed here, but when a complete constitution is looked at, or the Electoral Law, then it is said in previous members who are constituent peoples in BiH, meaning Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak, etc. I'm not saying this is an ideal law, but we suggest that these amendments and additions be adopted today and that we have a complete law that will be available to us and that we can make choices by it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7538	I thank Minister Mihajlović. Who else is answering for a word? Mr Malkić, the esteemed representative, appears for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7539	I don't think it's right that in Article 10.10 when the House of Peoples is formed, that is to say, the election of the House of Peoples and the finding of the number of delegates, it clearly states. The kantonalan, or legislative body is elected by 58 delegates in the House of Nations 17 from the order of Bosniaks, 17 from the 22nd order of Serbia, 17 from the order of the Croatian people and 7 from the order of others. It should also be in article 11.10, where it will be written. The majority of the peoples consists of 28 members – 8 representatives of the Bosniak people – 8 representatives of the Serb people and 8 representatives of the Croatian people and 4 representatives of the others in order to have a unique text and not a possibility of speculation. If the minister gave an explanation in Article 11.11. where members of the Council of People are elected by the appropriate club of MPs, then the situation is even worse. In the RS, we have the relevant clubs of SDA, SDP and others, and it is clear that the club of delegates of a particular people chooses and here does not change delegates with an MP, but only behind delegates should the constitutional people be inserted.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7540	I would like to thank Mr. Malkić, the honourable representative. The word has been made by Minister Mihajlović to give the necessary explanations on these issues.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7541	In Article 11.10, in the election of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia in point 2. The Council of Nations consists of 8 members of each of the constituent people and 4 of the other peoples. I don't think it's disputed that according to the analogy provided for the election of delegates in the Federation, where it's being told in brackets next to the number and which people it is standing here. Unless, of course, it's against the Rules of Procedure. But that's understood. I think it's quite clear, although the same analogy has not been applied, that in the bracket next to the number stands the name of the people, which means the constitutional nature. We in BiH have three constituent nations and that is not disputed. I wouldn't mind, in essence, being around the fence here, but if it doesn't conflict with the Rules of Procedure, changing the text that is existing.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7542	The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Banjac, and let the honourable representative of Mr. Miro Grabovac be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7543	Dear gentlemen, I do not intend to delay this very effective session, but I do aim to warn of something that as a man I cannot accept and what I find negative and dangerous, which is. In the BiH Parliament, the Council or the House of Peoples is elected in one way that I believe is more democratic and far more democratic than what has been installed today for entities in the Electoral Law that we have said is better. The fact is, it is unacceptable and that my thesis that the situation is needlessly complicated to the harm of all of us, remains in force I still think so. First, gentlemen, there is no possibility in any parliament of the world that there is a democratic system that is multi-party, that the club of MPs is formed on a national basis and if it knows that such a provision does not exist. It just doesn't exist. It had to be arranged differently. However, I truly wanted to talk here and today about better solutions that will help us all to make progress, because as long as we don't start a politically stable BiH, there won't be any economic prosperity or development and, of course, that was the main reason I came forward and said I simply didn't think that 23 allowed me to participate as an MP in a democratic dialogue with you and an argumented dialogue to share arguments and take suggestions if they were positive. Also, gentlemen, I cannot accept that in the 21st century we have a verbal delinquent in BiH. The penalty for verbal delinquency, and if we have agreed here, we will not use it as something that must remain the past, it is again in the BiH Election Law. There's a question of where this is going. Gentlemen, gentlemen, please, in the legislation of this country in positive legislation in the periods that were in force in the premises of the former Yugoslavia, only a man could have lost his right to be elected if he was sentenced to prison. It's no different. It's not acceptable for someone to be damaged for part of basic human rights, which is to be chosen. It's not acceptable for me for him to stay free and take away his human right. So punish him, gentlemen. Find a lawyer's solution if he's done an evil deed, let him answer for it and go to jail. Don't do it here and call it democratic development. I can't accept it as democracy and I'll never accept it. There is no explanation for such actions, but, gentlemen, this is all a story in the wind because you brought us into a process that shouldn't have gone. We all know. I am absolutely determined that the Electoral Law should have been upgraded, but at the same time it should not have been degraded in certain places. That's the essence of my remarks. Of course, gentlemen, I know I've taken your time and I apologize for that, but I've taken the time to make this a message to the public that this is no longer working, to be a message to those who come to think first of all, whether they can develop BiH as a democratic community or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7544	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Banjac. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Miro Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7545	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, I believe Mr. Minister that the article Mr. Malkić spoke of in the 11th 10th is technical nature and that it is constitutional obligation, when it comes to listing this part of the constitutional peoples. So I don't think there's anything that needs to be technical and that's, that's understood. Therefore, it does not change anything, given that this is in Article 10.10 when it comes to the Federation Parliament, and since it is being adopted, it also needs this constitutional obligation in two homes. So, to list the constitutional peoples, given that the RS will adopt this law, this section regarding its electoral part, I believe that it is a constitutional obligation and here it should be, and it is done by my understanding that this is technical in nature that it is not, at all, something that should be disturbed, given that we are voting under Article 105, and it would be good to find it that way. Thank you. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7546	I thank Mr. Grabovac. I think this is where the lawmaker can intervene effectively. I know constitutionally it is a category, and I think the Proposer should accept, since he also proposed a law under Article 105 to accept this and offer this law. The word has a minister, Mr. Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7547	Since Article 10.10 has been elaborated on and said that the House of Peoples in the Federation of BiH is elected, I think the same analogy should be in Article 11.10 so that Article 2. The National Council consists of 8 of the Bosniak people, 8 of the Serb people and 8 of the Croatian people and 4 members of the others. So they'd be the same members only in different homes. It's also a constitutional category. Since in Article 11.10, we have now rewritten it, there is the same text as in Article 10.10. where this is worked out exactly from the Constitution, so it is said next to the number and we have said what are the constituent nations and in Article 11.10. we have worked to make the same analogy in Article 10.10. and in Article 11.11. and then... and we have the same analogy for one and another people's homes in one and another entity, considering that this is a technical error and that we have the same text just different...
ParlaMint-BA_2002-07-03-0.u7548	I thank Minister Mihajlović for this explanation and clarification, because they are the legislator of this law. Who's next to the word? If no one is answering, I suggest we conclude that we make a statement on the proposal for this, on the proposal for an election law with the first ones. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Thank you. Are there any abstentions? Of the 32 who voted 23 for – 5 against – 1 abstention. An entity vote is also needed. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Thank you. Who's from RS for? The Federation of BiH 16 - RS 7 - means we adopted this as well. Thank you. We've finished this session. See you on the 16th. It will be included 16. We're the only ones who shared it right now so we don't have to send it. So, the 16th session is new. The seat is over.
