ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7799	Gentlemen, I am opening the 31st session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to the MPs, the meeting invited the chairman and members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, the OSCE, the UN mission, the UN's monitoring mission and others. I find that the session has a sufficient number of MPs present at 32. The absence was justified by the esteemed Mr. Bjelobrk Bjelovrk. So the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. I welcome all present representatives and guests. I also welcome representatives of public information funds. I would like to point out that gentlemen of honor can take advantage of the opportunity to take pictures today, who did not do so, to simply record this mandate. Gentlemen, you received a draft agenda in the motion for the session. At today’s session of the Enlarged College, there have been some changes. You received an amended agenda proposal on the benches. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Does anyone want to? The word has been given to Mr. Bilbija's esteemed representative. Please note that we have agreed to hold the next session of the House of Representatives on the 24th of this month. So let's try to finish up some of these questions that are in the final phase that we don't leave a new council.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7800	The Honorable Chairman, honourable members of the Presidency, fellow MPs, present members of the Council of Ministers, as no agreement has been reached at today's session of the House of Representatives' College, and there is a possibility of a compromise, I suggest on behalf of the Club that we take this off the agenda today and leave it for the next session, because this is one of the most important laws for BiH and we are on our way to find a compromise solution to adopt this law. 2 Since we discussed at the extended college that the next session could be the 24th session, I think it would be good if we left these few days and agreed on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7801	I would like to thank Mr Željka Bilbija, who proposed that point 4 be not considered for reasons of further consent to be included in the agenda of the 24th of this month. So we're going to have to vote on that anyway. Anyone else want one? If no one wants to, I'll close the debate on the agenda. I think we should say first whether or not we should take off this agenda point, actually, that for reasons of further consent, we should leave it for 24 this month. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. I find the House of Representatives unanimously with 32 votes to adopt that this point means prolonging for session 24. Now we're going to read the agenda and make it clear that there have been some slight changes compared to what you've got. 1. Journal of the 27th, 29th and 30th session of the House of Representatives, 2nd. Appointment of members of the Joint Commission of both homes to reach an agreement on the Veterinary Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina, b) The Law on Features, 3. Agents' questions and answers, 4. Report from the Commission from the College on an effort to reach agreement on the amendment and representatives of Željke Bilbija and the amendment of Ms Emina Začiragić's distinguished representative at the Proposal for a Law on Gender Equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 5. Report from the Commission from the College on an effort to reach agreement on a request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Registration of Legal Persons established by the Bosnia and Herzegovina authorities under an emergency procedure, 6. Report by the Joint Commission on the conclusion of an agreement on the uniform text of the Governance Act, 7. Report by the Joint Commission on the conclusion of an agreement on the uniform text of the Law on concessions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 8. Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Labour and Employment of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), 9. Proposal for a law on the use and protection of the name Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), 10. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Industrial Property in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), 11. Proposal for a law on the movement and stay of foreigners and asylum (first reading), 12. Proposal for a law on interstate and inter-entity communications (first reading) – Proposers of distinguished representatives Mr Malkić, Begović, Buturović, 13. Proposal for a Law on Road Transport Contracts (first reading) – Proposers of Honorable Representatives Mr Malkić, Begović, Buturović, 14. Proposal for a Law on State Roads (first reading) – Proposed MPs Mr Malkić, Begović, Buturović, 3 15. Proposal for a Law on Road Safety (first reading) – Proposers of Honorable Representatives Mr Malkić, Begović, Butorović, 16. Proposal for a law on inland and maritime navigation (first reading) – Proposed representatives of Mr Malkić, Begović, Buturović, 17. Proposal for a Law on Postage (first reading) – Proposed representatives of Mr Malkić, Begović, Buturović, 18. Report by the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum on visits to a number of municipalities, 19. Report on the work of the Commission to examine the status of persons naturalised in the period 06.4.1992 until the entry into force of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 20. Report by the Commission on Finance and Budget on the specific audit issue for the CIPS project 21. Adherence to ratification (a) Agreement on the Development Credit "The Road Management and Security Project" between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the World Bank and the International Development Association, (b) Convention on Biological Variety Rio De Janeiro, 5 June 1992) UN Convention on the Facilitation of Dissertification in countries affected by severe droughts, particularly in Africa, Paris on 14 October 1994. So that's the agenda. I only owe one note. This point is 2. The formation of a committee to comply with the Veterinary Act, given the importance of the law, we have decided to form a commission, if it is okay, at the beginning, and we have ensured that the committee of the House of Peoples who will agree to this law is here today present to try to bring the text into line. It's about the important law. We came close to adopting him, so we wouldn't leave him. We now have a duty to make a statement on the full agenda, given that there have been slight changes. Who's for a full read agenda? Thank you. Do you mind? - nemati suzdržati? Of the 35 who were there, who voted, the vote voted 35, with no votes against, no abstentions. So we adopted the agenda as read. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad. 1. The minutes of the 27th, 29th and 30th session of the House of Representatives in connection with this point, I am obliged to give you only one note. In fact, you know that Mr. Marko Amidžić intervened at the end of the 27th session that the session was not completed, but that it was interrupted. Since no agenda item has been completed – The election of members of Parliament's delegation to the Council of Europe, you gentlemen are familiar with the further sequence of events related to the election of the delegation. The college estimated that a later debate on the election of the delegation had lost its actuality. As the end of the term of office of this House of Representatives and the House of Peoples is near, and for this reason we believe that the conditions have not been met. 4 So in this context we should adopt the record as proposed. Here you go. I'm opening a debate. Do you have any objections to any of these records? Mr. Marko Amidžić has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7802	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, I address the College of the House to explain this proposal to me, if this is not an opportunity for the whole House. Are we adopting the minutes from the unfinished session from point to point or at this point and finishing the session, the 27th seems to me? So I have no claim to reopen the debate on the composition of our delegation to the Council of Europe. Let's just say, I'm also aware of the fact that at this point it's a little bit absurd to choose that delegation, but I'm also firmly convinced that the session that's started should end in business. So you just need to open up the sequel and close the session for the archives, because of what's left in this home. I mean, it's impossible that it's even inconclusive that we should leave this one in this term one session that was long ago started and unfinished. So I, you can call me a formalist, but watch out for business provisions are inexorable. Do not take responsibility for adopting a session log that is not finished. Or suggest to the College that your conclusion to this home be agreed that this session, that this point be removed from the agenda. Let the House plead and bring the session to an end even if it was a purely formal matter. But I think the session should be over. Don't explain to me that he can do it this way. It says clearly when the session is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7803	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Marko Amidžić. We're adopting minutes from the 27th, 29th and 30th sessions. Is anyone picking up? If he doesn't answer, I'll close the debate. I suggest we adopt each other. Who is it to adopt the minutes of the 27th session of this house? Thank you. Do you mind? Thank you. Are there any abstentions? Of the 35 that are here, 25 for, 8 against, no abstentions. We have to be subjective. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Thank you. Who's from Republika Srpska for? Federation of BiH 15 for Republika Srpska 11 for. So the minutes of the 27th session are adopted. 5 We are going to vote on the minutes of the 29th session. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. Of the 34 who voted 34 for it. Minutes adopted unanimously by the 29th session of the House of Representatives. We're voting on the minutes with the 30th session of the House of Representatives. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There's no way I can konstatirati out that 35 who voted, 35 voted for it. So the 30-session minutes were adopted. That ended the first item of the agenda. Thank you. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. Ad. 2. The appointment of members of the Joint Commission of both homes in order to reach an agreement on the single text of the Veterinary Law in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Law on the Features of BiH The Honorable Gentlemen of Representatives, as you know we have adopted the Law on Veterinary Affairs of BiH, as well as the Law on the Features of BiH. Since the House of Peoples later adopted this law in a different text, we need to appoint three members from this home to the Joint Commission in order to reach an agreement on the uniform text of the Veterinary Act. Also, if we appoint this committee on the Veterinary Act, we've made sure that the other person's commission is there, so please try to agree. Now we should first propose three members to the Committee on Veterinary Law. We had the presidents of the clubs in the extended session, and they had some suggestions, so, please, let me suggest here. Who's proposing? The word has been given to Mr. Bilbija's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7804	Dear gentlemen, we propose Mr Branislav Lolić to be a member of the committee for the text of the Veterinary Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7805	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ms. Začiragić, and then a distinguished representative, Mr. Titan. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7806	I welcome all present. For this commission, I propose in front of the Party for BiH Club Dr. It's a piece of cake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7807	I thank the distinguished representative, Mrs. Emina Začiragić. The word has an esteemed representative Mr. Miro Grabovac Titan, and then a distinguished representative of Mr. brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7808	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, in front of the HDU Club, we are proposing for the Veterinary Act for Mr. Marko Amidžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7809	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Brka. I thought you wouldn't propose on behalf of the club, that you would propose on behalf of this house three people, but here's the look. Only three can.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7810	I really thank the chairman for allowing me to propose a man who has been very actively involved in the creation of this law with his amendments that is Professor Dr. Kulenović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7811	I would like to thank Mr. Brk's esteemed representative. Now we have to agree on how to vote. I've also proposed 15 amendments, and I've all been accepted so I don't have to...to this committee. Here's what I'm calling club presidents, and here's all these guys who suggested we see how we handle it. We pick three, and we have four. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7812	We had an extended college, not to go out for a pay phone to get these commissions and a proposal from an extended college with the presidents of the club MPs, except for the simply chairing SDA MPs' club to be Lolić, Cuplov and Amidžić, and they were proposed. Let's vote on those three. That's it. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7813	I mean, we have to vote on every proposal he's got unless Mr. brkati's esteemed representative. I suggest. All right, then. I suggest we propose this other commission, and then we'll see how we handle it, or we'll take a break and we'll make a deal or we'll move on. Okay, I suggest we also go to the proposal of this committee to bring the text of the Law on the Features of Bosnia and Herzegovina into line. The word has a distinguished representative Mr. Miro Grabovac – Titan.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7814	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm afraid we're about to fall into a trap. He proposed to the extended college, and he evenly set it up. However, since it is already on my way, I propose, so I suggested Amidžić in the first, and I propose Zdenko Vukić to the second for the medal.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7815	Here you are, the ones who were there, don't hold on to it. That's why I voiced my suspicions, and I didn't want to propose, because I said no president of the SDA Club. Who's still proposing? Rijeka has a respected representative, Mrs Bahrija Osmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7816	I welcome all those present, I would like to propose to Amor Mašović for the Rewarding Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7817	Thank you. Who else is answering for a word? The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Tošić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7818	The SDS Club proposes Mr Mirko Mijatović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7819	I would like to thank Mr. Tošić, the honourable representative. So, is anyone else suggesting? He's not suggesting. So we have a problem with this first commission, we have four, whether club presidents can agree to be a committee in common that will count three members. So you're all staying with your proposals. I suggest we make a statement by voting on these three MPs. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Brka. I would like to thank Mr. Brk's esteemed representative. 8 I propose that we declare the text of the Law on Veterinary Veterinary in Lolic, Cuplvo and Amidžić. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? The abstentions? Of the 36 who voted, 36 for. So we accepted this commission. I propose that we declare the composition of a committee to bring the text of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Declarations Act in the form of Vukić, Mašović, Mijatović. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? - 1 Of the 36 who voted, 35 for one vote abstention. So we adopted this committee as proposed. Thank you. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. Ad. 3 Representatives' questions and answers In the period from last session to this answer to questions were received by distinguished representatives of gentlemen: Salih Kulenović, Ibrahim Đedović, Miloš Jovanović, Sead Buturović, Abdurahman Malkić, Franjo Majdandžić, Osman Brka, Senad Šarganović, Branislav Lolić, Damir Mašić, Muhamed Begović. Some MPs answer a number of questions. To note that the Council of Ministers has answered a number of parliamentary questions this time. However, there are still a number of questions we have not received answers to, and apparently very difficult to get by the end of this term. Here you go. Do we have any respected MPs today who want to ask questions? The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Kulenović, and let the honourable representative of Mr. brkati be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7820	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all. So today I have no intention of asking any question, but to comment on the question I have received. I can immediately say that I am not satisfied with the answer, although I would like to thank the Council of Ministers at this time for what has been expedient about this. That's what this is about. I will tell you to visit you that at the 27th session of the House of Representatives held on 20.6.2002, I asked a question concerning the allocation of land in Bjelajic near Mrkonjic City on state property. Of course, following these events, the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications sent a letter to the municipality Mrkonjic City and the municipality of Mrkonjic The City answered about this issue and on the basis of this, and the information was conceived to answer my question. I have to tell you right away that since it's about my great-grandfather's great-grandfather, it's about my father-in-law that unfortunately there's a circle of ethnic cleansing, and that this land isn't what it's all about, taken from us before World War II, but 9 was taken away from us in 1960, and I'm undermining the 1960s, and it's like, it was an arrondation, and another law took away that land. That's one thing. The other thing, I'm interested in how, I don't have anything against those people who got that land, 27 people got the land to build houses. The houses were built without any construction order. I don't know how these people's water supply will be, and besides, it was never building land, it was agricultural land. And I'm interested in another thing about this, how I can be avoided and displaced from the same place. So he just moved off his own and came to that. I'm warning you that this property is under all regulations, and it should be subject to restitution. And at the end of this comment, I am asking Minister Mihajlović, the Resort Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, to report all this to the authorities in Mrkonjic City and to act according to their mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7821	I would like to thank Mr. Salih Kulenović, the esteemed representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Brka, and let the honourable representative, Mr. Begović, be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7822	The Honorable Chairman will be very brief, just to remind me of what my question was. – When will the BiH Council of Ministers take over the motor power in the development of this country? Namely, I've got the answer. I thank you for your response, but this answer is purely bureaucratic. He's talking about what the Council of Ministers' tasks are. That's what I know, and I shouldn't have answered that. But I also know that people who are in those positions in the Council of Ministers, it doesn't matter who, when, not only does this apply to these people, but to any government, the Council of Ministers, are certainly the best knowers of all problems in BiH. They just have to be where they are. That is why I asked the question – when as such people with such knowledge will become the engine of BiH's development. Not to be there are people who are actually holding back BiH's development. I'm only setting one example. Back in two years from BiH, which was a very, very valuable country in the world, we came in a position to be viewed with suspicion. Why? Isn't that the consequences and work of the Council of Ministers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7823	I would like to thank Mr. Brk's esteemed representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Begović, and let the honourable representative of Mr. Miro Grabovac - Titan be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7824	Ladies and gentlemen, in 18.6.2001, I referred the Bill on the Government of BiH to the Council of Ministers, which is that ours, the chairman, will launch the issue of how to regulate and organise the BiH government, not the Council of Ministers, but the Government of BiH. I delivered the text of the 10 laws to the chairman at the time. To date, I have no real answer to whether this proposal will enter into the procedure or not? I waited patiently for the answer. I didn't get an answer for that. Second question. I was not completely satisfied with one answer, and this was partly given when I asked the question of the adoption of the Law on the names of cities and settlements. You're witnessing that now and in entities, somehow whoever wants to change the names of cities that represent the historical category, and that kind of irritates people, irritates the builders on the ground. We cannot go towards reconciliation, towards peace, towards establishing peace if we hear this question. So I have proposed that this issue be discussed, that the Council of Ministers prepare a bill on city names, on changing cities and settlements, to be seen from the state level. I didn't get an answer to that question until today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7825	I thank the esteemed representative, Mr. Begović. The word has a distinguished representative Mr. Miro Grabovac - Titan, and let the distinguished representative Mr. Abdurahman Malkić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7826	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, my question has been addressed to the College, and also to the House of Representatives, since this House has passed the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am interested in Chapter 8 of Article 8.1 when it comes to the election of members of the BiH presidency. I am interested in whether those who have not spoken, who are running for certain representatives of the people, and who have not declared themselves to belong to that people, whether they can run on behalf of that people, that is, I am solely interested in this law of the candidate of the Croatian presidency. If listed in '91. He did not declare the year as a Hrvat, and given that the Dayton Peace Agreement, i.e. the structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina, was based on the description '91. years per national key. This chapter is certainly, this matter is certainly regulated in the BiH Constitution chapter 5, which shows that it is a constitutional category. With that, too, through this House of the Constitutional Court of BiH, my question is - Can anyone run who is not in '91? has been declared a Hrvat on behalf of the Croatian people, i.e. as a Croatian member of the presidency, i.e. one and the other institution again, does this mean that someone who is not a Hrvat can plead out of the order of the Bosniak people and of the Serb people as Hrvat and thus be elected to the election units in Bosnia and Herzegovina and thereby violate the constitutional category of Croatian people, i.e. to violate the equality of Hrvat to choose their own representatives? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7827	I thank the honourable representative Mr. Miri Grabovac Titan. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Malkić, and let the distinguished representative of Mrs Bahrija Osmanović be prepared. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7828	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, distinguished guests. I have three questions, two concerns, or two needs answers to dá College of our home. First question. Why hasn't the House College included a report on the work of the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina so far? I therefore propose a agenda for the next session – Report on the work of the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina and during preparations for the upcoming 2002 elections. Second question. It is also the College or Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly. Who sent the information funds to the House today, and in what way? Third question for the Bosnia and Herzegovina Election Commission. How many persons, how many persons have been removed from the voter lists under the CRPC Decision, i.e. by preventing the election of persons living in other people's homes, and the owners of those houses have received CRPC decisions based on how much has been removed from the voter lists under Article 19.8.? Second question to the Electoral Commission. I also ask the Electoral Commission to interpret the electoral censorship, i.e. that enables parties to enter the Parliamentary Assembly, i.e. the legislative bodies for which they are competing? I have information that the Election Commission is interpreting in a way that is not relevant to the Election Commission, i.e. it does not comply with the provisions of Article 9.6. 2 and 9.7 of the Electoral Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7829	I would like to thank Mr. Malkić, the honourable representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mrs. Osmanović, and let the distinguished representative Mr. Vukić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7830	This time, I want to say that I'm ashamed of myself and all of you here and all of the audience that's following us this time. It's about the next one. I've been asking the same question for eight months now for this pay phone that I never got an answer for today. It's about respecting the Labour Relations Act and quitting work on black in this country. Gentlemen, I can't understand, if I couldn't get as many numbers in this country as the worker is working on black, then at least I get an answer on whether something's going on? Will such crimes be interrupted today and will we once begin to do as all God’s and human laws command. Please, gentlemen, we want and we want to go to the Council of Europe. For such one mistake, the return ticket has been prepared. Working on black is forbidden everywhere, and in our country it's not. Imagine what that means for school, for health care, for retirement and for everyone else. I may not, when I haven't received that answer in eight months, I probably won't get it in this term, but I want to publicly express my disdain and such a shameful, disgraceful act to take it off my responsibility. Thank you very much. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7831	I thank the distinguished representative, Mrs. Osmanović. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Vukić, and let the distinguished representative Mr. Buturović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7832	Ladies and gentlemen, respected role models, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to refer one question here to the Federation of BiH government, because it is simply likely that what happens is that there are no comments. It's got two parts. The first would be, I think, that it is necessary to provide information on 63 million KMs used from the Federation of BiH budget for 2001 for the payment of internships to workers. So which company did that go to? What are the amounts and what is the national structure of workers? Also, what are the reasons, i.e. the motives for the illegal removal of the Management Board and the management of the Federation of BiH Peace Fund, i.e. taking over the role of the Governing Board by the Government of the Federation of BiH? We are witnessing in the Federation that there is indeed an erosion I would say relations within those who share power today in this Federation and it is devastating, I must say by the Croatian people in the way someone exercises that power in the Federation today, I am talking about executive power. And here it should be made clear and loud, because unfortunately all this time many don't know who they're courting, and they don't have the strength to point this out where it is. I would like to refer a question to the BiH Council of Ministers about this earlier issue. I would tell everyone in my eye a certain person who is doing his wits and criticisms that she is causing, and you should know that from an earlier time when he was at the head of the MiO Hercegbosna Fund that he bothered many because he insisted on obeying the law. Council of Ministers – What will you do to ensure the performance of the chess Olympic team at the Olympics in Slovenia? This is a simple question, however, since I had already asked questions at the House of Representatives' meetings about sports issues and pointed to that. Especially the chess team that only has an Olympic medal. She did not participate, and I must say last year at the European Championship, this year the Olympics are being held in Slovenia, for relations with sport, disorder when it comes to legislation. We have a situation today that it is still a matter of good will for individuals whether the team will go to the Olympics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7833	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Vukić. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Buturović, and may the honourable representative of Mr. Senad Šarganović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7834	Dear gentlemen, the chairman, the esteemed MPs, and I would particularly like to absorb the presence of representatives of international organisations, the means of information, I would ask 13 to really publish what I'm about to say, and I'm not going to ask a single question here, because I've asked a series of questions about these trials of lemmes. I got the answers, but I can tell you that I'm not happy with those answers. Not that the answerer did not respond in quality, but that once again points to the problem that we really have such a complex system of management and management that everyone transfers responsibility from one to another. I understand that. Because this is the state of Dayton. I said it. I'm gonna do it again. It doesn't guarantee human rights. I'm going to Ukazaću out a drastic example of human rights violations, which refers to the HN canton. In the HN Canton, here for 3-4 weeks, children of Bosniak nationality are not going to school, while children of Croatian nationality are going to school. Reason. Simple. The budget does not work, the budget is not common, the budget is divided into money coming from the Croatian side and money coming from the Bosniak side. Unfortunately, the money coming from the Bosniak side is insufficient to cover the costs of this public spending. It's health care, education, etc. On that set of examples he pointed out. Please, I appeal to you as a man, as a citizen, with no connection and no involvement in politics, because this is about human rights violations. Children are not allowed to go to school. Do we have to hit a child of 7 years of age with a stamp on his head that he's a citizen of 2nd or 13th row? Let's not let that happen as people, as citizens. I urge that everything be done to solve this problem. So we're talking, we're doing each other. The formal legal budget is common, the core budget cannot work on the HN canton together. That's what we've pointed to in both the federal government and the federal prime minister, etc. etc. Please, I urge you as a man from this pay phone to remove this problem of human rights endangerment from the agenda and at least to allow established elemental rights to all people, as it says, here I am carrying this recommendation of the Human Rights Department – the authorities must treat people rightly, justly and impartially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7835	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Šarganović, and let the honourable representative, Mr. Jovanović, be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7836	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. President of the Presidency and members of the Bureau, Ministers of the Council of Ministers, I would like to thank you for the answers that have been exhausted so far and in accordance with the powers of the predsjednštvo. My question is about the reconstruction and electrification of the UN railway, and it is said – at what stage is the reconstruction of the Unika railway and when will complete reconstruction be completed, including electricity, given the importance of the Unsko-Sanska canton, the Banja Luka region, normally and in a wider environment for ports such as Split, Zadar and Sibenik? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7837	I thank the honourable representative Mr. Šarganović. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Jovanović, and let the honourable representative, Mr Franjo Majdandžić, be prepared. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7838	I'm just, I'm gonna be brief, I'm asked by a married couple from Zvornik, because they can't return the apartment to the Banovici for four years, and I have this complete file, so I'm gonna deliver it. But what I want to say, and I also want to express my disdain because I didn't get an answer to three questions asked and what I can do today, means personally that all those laws and bill proposals that came from the Council of Ministers that I'm going to vote against today. So whether or not we're good or bad, it's my disdain that I'm voting against the law proposed by the Council of Ministers today. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank some members of the Council of Ministers, especially those sitting in the Council of Ministers, and the presidents are their parties, as they raise the SDS by their statements and I think thanks to their statements the SDS will have another MP more in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7839	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Jovanović. Mr. Franjo Majdandžić has an honourable representative, and let the honourable representative, Mr. Ibrahim Đedović, be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7840	I welcome the chairman and member of the BiH presidency, the chairman, the distinguished representatives of ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the ministry, the Council of Ministers. This is how I asked 30.6. which concerns considering the Decision on the ban on exports of cut construction, boards and other materials as raw materials that are necessary for our industry and which severely damages and destroys forests that have its wider effects on the ecological, other, not to say economic, etc. I got an answer saying they didn't, that it wasn't in the jurisdiction of the entity ministries. It is therefore within the jurisdiction of one of the BiH Council of Ministers' ministries. It further notes, however, that it is in the jurisdiction of the federal ministry of agriculture and forestry and the water industry that is considering this possibility and which will give its proposal to the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economy Relations. So the Council of Ministers. And it also adds that it is not being discussed by the ministries, not one of the RS ministries. So my proposal is for the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to also consider the possibility of this decision in the RS area and, together with a decision to be delivered to her by the Tederal Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, to launch activities, clearly if this is all reasonable and economically justified to ban the export of cut construction, boards and other products that are very much destroying our forests and which are not very safe for us. Thank you. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7841	I would like to thank Mr Majdandžić, the esteemed representative. Mr. Đedović has an honourable representative, and let the honourable representative of Mr. Bilbija be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7842	Gentlemen of the Presidency, the Honorable Chairman of the Presidency, a member of the Presidency, fellow MPs and journalists and all present. We are witnessing very frequent use of official vehicles back 20 to a month across Bosnia and Herzegovina with belonging to its scalers. We are witnessing very frequent references to the use of official vehicles for party purposes. Not wanting to join the playoffs of those who unargumentedly call the question – is the use of official vehicles regulated during the election campaign regulated? I'm asking the College of this House, the College of the House of Peoples, the colleagues of the ethnic homes and the chairman of the Council of Ministers and entity governments. Secondly, I ask that this home and the public meet during the end of the campaign by name and last name who had the number of orders, which the relations were going through, and how much did this country code, regardless of its function? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7843	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Đedović. Mr. Željko Bilbija's esteemed representative has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7844	Dear gentlemen, during this term, we have adopted several agreements on the transport of goods and passengers with, say, Switzerland, Germany and other countries. I have often asked a parliamentary question and followed the course of signing such agreements with countries in the environment. At one of the previous sessions, Mr. Mihajlović said an agreement with SR Yugoslavia is under way. No, I've officially learned that such an agreement has been signed, but I'd like to get accurate information on this home whether it's signed or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7845	I thank the esteemed representative, Mr. Željko Bilbija. I'm closing this agenda. We're moving on. _____________: I didn't get answers. There's a chance they're giving up now. But from who. 16________: From College. You weren't listening.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7848	Can I have a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7849	About this. The word has a distinguished representative Mr. Miro Grabovac – Titan.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7850	Given that you have gone over these answers, I am asking on behalf of the Club for a break of - an hour, and I suggest that the College be shown on a parliamentary issue that is exclusively related to the BiH Constitution, that is, the Electoral Law that brought this home here BiH Election Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7851	I thank the honourable representative Mr Miri Grabovac – Titan. The break is not controversial. I'm not that kind of expert, and I'd better say I'm not inconclusive that I can give an answer within two minutes on such a few questions. Half an hour, count. The HDU's counseling club asked for a break. I need to explain. A little quiet, please. We're going back to work. We're on the fourth wheel of the agenda. 17 Does the HDU Club want to or should it be explained because he asked for a half-hour break? No, you asked for a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7853	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of MPs, the HDU Club has asked for a break because it sought interpretation, or an answer to the question I asked, as regards the Electoral Law of Chapter 8 of Article 8.1 of the Electoral Law which this House has passed. Asked the College to give an interpretation when it comes to the part, could anyone run for office who did not declare himself on the last list as a Hrvat on behalf of the Croatian member of the presidency? This is the obligation of the College if there is no exit, then I suggest that the College propose a conclusion, or that the proposal to the House of Representatives to adopt this home, or to give an interpretation to this part. So the College makes its proposal. If the College is not able to do the same, I suggest that the College form a committee that will be in front of this House and the House of People, which will give an interpretation for the next session of this election law that is related to the election of members of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7854	I thank the honourable representative Mr. Miri Grabovac - Titan. As far as we're concerned, we don't need any way out. We have enough exits. I would ask you to state whether this is a request for an answer to a representative's question, or whether you have a request for an authentic interpretation of that and that article, that and that law. If that is how the laws are interpreted by the one who brought it, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and this report for the Parliamentary Assembly, and therefore for the House of Representatives, would be logical to prepare a Constitutional and Legal Commission in which it says - the Commission is considering issues relating to the legal system, the electoral system and other issues from the Dom that are not part of the activities of other committees. We can help you get out of this, here's a stenogram, if you don't have a written request to get out, to authorize it, and to go into the procedure that should go. That's it. The word is Mr. Grabovac. I note that we held the College in a break and that this is the position of the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7855	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Constitutional and Legal Committee is not the committee responsible for what I am talking about. The Constitutional and Legal Committee is not in charge of interpreting that part, and I think you know it well, that it is not. She's competent to pass the law, and when the law is passed then she's only competent to be interpreted by the one who brought it in. So I don't think you've made the right suggestion. I remind you of Article 19 d. which speaks when it comes to the obligations of the College, so I ask that the College is manifested or that it makes a proposal to the House of Representatives to tell whether the interpretation is what the College proposes or someone will say that he sees this different interpretation. 18 I therefore reject fully when it comes to the Constitutional and Legal Commission and you do not have a business foothold for the Constitutional and Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7856	Thank you. You have nothing to reject or reject. I mean, if you are, if you want to look for authentic interpretation, you know, file a request. They'll have treatment like any other initiative. So, what I'm saying is that I have a foothold in the Rules of Procedure, I'm just reading the Rules of Procedure. I don't know. Anyone else want one? The word has a respected representative Mirko Baković. We're on the fourth wheel of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7857	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, say a few words here. Nothing in particular, nothing talented, nothing intelligent, nothing brilliant, but in a word a few words that I think will confuse relationships with common sense. I think today in our political reality that we really miss it at the level of the BiH state, at the Balkan level as such, we often lack common common sense. I see that the political campaign, the pre-election campaign, and that even this parliament, this honorable house is turning into that. It's turning into an agitation stands. The issue of a candidate from the Croatian people competing for a future member of the BiH presidency was raised here. I don't know who he is, but I have a hunch who he is. However, the hunch is not a certain knowledge, so I won't say it, but in my opinion, if a man has pleaded one way or another, he has the right to participate and to plead today as well. I can be HDZ's today which I am, tomorrow I can be HDU's and I don't need anyone to argue and I don't need to ask for any legal sanctioning for it. Therefore, I think about making such a halabuk that it is not in place and that we must respect the choice and choice of the nation and the choice of faith that can be carried out freely without any pressure each day and as such being considered legitimate and legal. And I don't think there should be a debate here in Parliament right now. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7858	I thank Mr. Mirko Baković. You can have a replica, I'm finishing that question I'm going on. You have if I give it to you. The word has a distinguished representative Mr. Miro Grabovac Titan. If I don't give it, it's different.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7859	I am surprised to say that Mr. Baković has been exposed to a political campaign. She did, but I did not go out here for a political campaign, but only to protect the constitutionality of what belongs to the Croatian people, which is Article 5. The BiH Constitution, where it explicitly says a member of the presidency is elected from the order of the Croatian people. And I was 19 completely clear. Those who approve it can go one way or another are legalizing that tomorrow, representatives of the Bosniak people or representatives of the Serb people can choose a Hrvat without a single Croatian vote. I can't, and that conscience doesn't allow me to support something like that, and that's why I'm asking for an authentic interpretation of the College, or this home that passed the law, and I've also asked the Constitutional Court for an answer. Therefore, the College has an obligation, so it must do in its own framework what the clubs or individual representatives are asking of it. If unable to do so now, I suggest that the College establish one ad-hoc commission and propose to the House of Peoples that a commission be set up to give a proposal to both the one and the other homes for the authentic interpretation of the Election Law of Chapter 8 of Article 8.1 and the Constitutional Court will indeed give an answer when it comes to this part of the violation of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7860	Thank you. If I understand you correctly, you're changing your attitude and proposing a request. Please provide the request in writing to the service and it will have treatment like everyone else. The law is interpreted by the one who brought it, so do not transfer it to the College. The college doesn't owe you anything. The College is obliged to implement the procedure when it receives the request and the procedure will be carried out as the Rules of Procedure has said. Is anyone picking up on wheel four? Everything else is finished. It is about amendments to respected MPs, amendments and representatives of Željke Bilbija and amendments to the distinguished representative of Ms Emina Začiragić at the Proposal for a Law on Gender Equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the last meeting of the amendments and of the Željke Bilbija on Article 19(1), the entity did not receive an entity majority as well as the amendment of Ms Začiragić's distinguished representative to Article 8(1). The Commission has not reached its agreement on amendments by respected representatives of Bilbija and Začiragić. We need to make a statement about the amendments. So I'm putting on the vote of the amendment and the honourable representative of Mr. Bilbija. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? So 35 who voted 15 for, 16 against, 3 abstentions. So this amendment didn't get most of it, it doesn't have to go any further. I would like to place the amendment of Ms. Emina Začiragić's distinguished representative. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. The abstentions? So of the 35 present, for 16, versus 13, abstention 4. So he's got most of it, but we need to go to entity. 20 Who's from RS for? Who's against it? Round two. The amendment of Ms. Začiragić's honourable MPs. So that's the second round. They only go against it. Must be two-thirds of the way they can't. Right? Who's from the Federation of BiH against? Did he pass? So from RS 10 against, from Federation 3 against, it didn't go through. Now we have to vote on the law. Who's in favor of the law set? Thank you. Who's against it? The abstentions? Of the 36 who voted, 24, no votes against, 11 abstentions. We're going to an entity. Who's from the Federation of BiH for the Law? Thank you. Who's from the RS for the law? From Federation 22 for, from RS 3 to. So he didn't make it through, he's going for a match. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda. Ad. 5. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request to consider the Bill on the Registration of Legal Persons set up by the Bosnia and Herzegovina authorities on an urgent procedure, that is, Article 105. Rules of Procedure report you've received. As you can see, we have not reached agreement. Does anyone want a word? If he won't, I suggest we make a statement. Who is in order to adopt this request to be considered pursuant to Article 105. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you, abstentions? Of the 36 who are present 26 for, 10 against, no abstentions. We have to mean entity. Who's from the Federation of BiH against? Who's from the RS against? So, from the Federation of BiH, no one against, RS 10 against. So it didn't go through Article 105. He's going into a regular procedure. Thank you. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda. Ad. Six. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of an agreement on the unique text of the Law on Administration Report of the Joint Commission you received this morning on benches. As you have seen, the Commission has reached an agreement on the uniform text of the Management Act. We should now plead, vote on the Commission's report. 21 Does anyone want a word before the vote? He doesn't want to. So I'm putting it on the Commission's report. Who's in? - Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. Based on the results of the vote, I find that of the 36 present, 36 voted in favour. So that's how we adopted this report, and that's how we agreed to the Administration Act. Thank you. We're moving to the seventh item of the agenda. Ad. Seven. A report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of an agreement on the single text of the Law on concessions of Bosnia and Herzegovina Report, I hope you have won the benches. According to the Report, the Commission reached an agreement on the text of the Law on concessions. Does anyone want a word? If no one is answering, we should make a statement about, to vote on the Commission report that agreed on this text. Who's in charge of this report? Thank you. Who's against it? The abstentions? Have you been able to count it? Of the 35 who voted 25 in favour, against 2, who is from the Federation of BiH for? Thank you. Who's from RS for? Thank you. From Federation of BiH 14, RS 6 for. So the law, the adopted report. So the text of the concession law is in line. We're moving to the eighth item of the agenda. It's Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Labour and Employment of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) At the 30th session of the House of Representatives, this law was adopted in the first reading. The amendments to the proposal for a law were submitted by the honourable representative, Mr Sead Avdić, by calling for Article 94(3)a. So we're opening a debate in the second reading and continuing on the amendments. Who's answering for a word? The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7861	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, dear guests, here I was free to propose, given some new moments, seven amendments that have been agreed or which are a product objectively and of Convention 88 and 122 on Labour and International Resolutions on Labour and Employment. 22 This means nothing new, but here I will propose the following in short lines, which is – to enable a more efficient system of these amendments and to respect what the Council of Ministers has proposed, etc. I'm giving up amendments I and II that go against the agency's title and I suggest that the agency still leave, retain the title it has in law, which is the BiH Agency for Labour and Employment. So I'm giving up on Amendments I and II. amandman III would be Amendment I, and when a new text is added behind the word 'entity institutions', which reads 'and the Brcko District Office', you well know that it is simply necessary and necessary to treat the Brcko District as an integral part of this law. It means nothing new. Amendment IV shall become Amendment II and shall be added to certain points f), g), j) and k) and l) which simply give and establish a mosaic of the functioning of a simple future agency for work and employment. Amendment V becomes Amendment III and is an amendment which practically establishes the obligation of the Advisory Committee, which has 5 members and which simply make up representatives of the union, 2 employers and 1 representative of the Council of Ministers and Director of the Institute. Something that is a democratisation of the functioning of this agency for work and employment. Amendment VI shall become Amendment IV. Funding funds for the Institute will be provided from contributions to insurance of unfavourable persons from other sources in accordance with the functions and obligations established. amandman vi becomes Article 5. (probably referring to amendmentV) The entry into force of this law is the legal successor of the Employment Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's also nothing new. The fact that the High Representative has declared a simple Act on the transfer of assets and the mere existence of this institution means that in this context it is fully in line with the declared law by the High Representative and amandman vi becomes Amendment VI. On the day of entry into force of this law, the Institute retains equipment, property, archives and workers of the BiH Employment Service, which is necessary for the continuity of the functioning of the Institute. Here she is in short lines. There is one broad explanation here that arguments these six amendments, which are necessary to supplement the simple Agncija for Labour and Employment in full, one of the most difficult missions in BiH with a view to high unemployment and the necessity of new productive employment and resolving the most difficult problem in the Bosnian Herzegovina society. It's just over 430 thousand unemployed people. I therefore believe that these amendments should be accepted and that they do not hide any controversy within themselves and are in agreement with the international organisation of work, i.e. in the conventions on work within this international organisation of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7862	I would like to thank Mr. Sead Avdić, the esteemed representative. Is anyone else answering for word? If he doesn't answer, I'll close the debate. 23 So we first need to make a statement. Since the honourable representative, Mr Avdić, has given up the first two amendments, we are about to begin a statement on amendments that are III, IV, V, VI, VII and VIII. I'm putting on a statement of amendments now bearing the name amendment number and making sure he gave up. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Thank you. Are there any abstentions? Of the 37 that are there, 26 for, 8 against, 1 abstention. Who's from RS for? Thank you. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? From RS for 3, from Federation 21 for. So you need to agree, because you didn't get the necessary majority. We're moving on to Amendment II. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Abstained? Of the 36 who voted, 26 for, 9 against, no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH who's in favour? Thank you. From RS who's in favour? From Federation of BiH 23 for, from RS 3 for. So he doesn't have the necessary majority. There's a match. Thank you. Moving to Amendment III. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Abstained? Who's got a abstention? Of the 37, 26 for, 8 against, no abstentions. From RS who's in favour? Thank you. From the Federation of BiH who's in favour? Thank you. From Federation of BiH 23 for, from RS 2 for. So he's following the consent procedures. We're going to Amendment IV, right? Who's for Amendment IV? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Abstained? Of the 38 who voted, 26 for, 10 against, 1 abstention. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Thank you. Who's from RS for? From Federation 19 for, from RS 3 to. There's a reconciliation procedure going on because he didn't get the necessary majority. 24 We move to the Declaration on Amendment V. Who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Abstained? No abstentions. Of the 37 who voted, 26 for, 9 against, no abstentions. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Thank you. Who's from RS for? Thank you. 22 from the Federation of BiH for, 3 from RS for. So he didn't get most of it. There's a match. Moving to Amendment VI. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Restraint? From 37, 26 in, 10 against, and no abstentions. Who's from RS for? Thank you. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Thank you. 21 from the Federation of BiH for, 3 from RS for. So he didn't get the necessary majority. Consensus procedure. So we're left to agree on about six amendments that's for us to agree on about six amendments, and that's when we've completed the procedure for today. I hope we agree until the next session. Thank you. Moving to point nine. Ad.9. The proposal for a law on the application and protection of the name Bosnia and Herzegovina, the second reading of the draft law at the 30th session of the House, was adopted in the first reading. There were no amendments to the bill. I'm opening a dispersion. Who's answering for a word? If no one hears from me, I will conclude the debate and I suggest we make a statement on the proposal for a law on the use and protection of the name BiH. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? Thank you. Of the 35 who voted 33-1 against – 1 abstention. So there's no need for an entity statement. We adopted the Law on Use and Protection of the Name of BiH. Thank you. Ad.10. The draft law amending the Law on Industrial Property in BiH – the second reading of the Bill was adopted at the 30th session of the House of Representatives in the first reading. There are no amendments to the proposed law. I'm opening a debate on the proposed law. Who's answering for a word? I am concluding the dispute, given that no one is answering, I suggest we make a statement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Industrial Property in BiH? 25 Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? Of the 36 who voted in favour, 35 – against 1 – with no abstentions. So the law is passed. So, we passed the Law amending the Law on Industrial Property in BiH in a second reading. Thank you. Ad.11. The proposal for a law on the movement and stay of foreigners and asylum – it is about first reading – is proposed by the Council of Ministers at the 29th session of the House of Ministers at the request of the Proposer to consider the bill in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. The competent Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Whites and Asylum delivered a report to the representatives at the 30th session of August 1st. The debate is being held today as well as the first reading vote. So we don't discuss the principle and we don't vote on amendments so there's no confusion. Who's answering for a word? About the first reading. Not about the amendments. If no one is answering for a word, I suggest we say that we adopt this bill on the movement and residence of foreigners and asylum in the first reading. You're a little late, but this time we're gonna... it's just about principles.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7863	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I have one principle question that would actually suit this first reading. Is the proposed law in line with European standards in this area and whether it has been delivered to Parliament or to someone in Parliament in this regard by written statement or notice, which would be very important for further procedure in this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7864	I would like to thank Mr. Cuplow's esteemed representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7865	I'm thanking you. I will try partially to respond to a member of the Commission. We didn't know that when we had a session of the Commission, but this morning I received material from the General Director-General for Legal Affairs of the Council of Europe and the Director-General for Human Rights to comment on this law and I know that they have no objections to our four amendments that our commission adopted and forwarded to Parliament. So, the Commission has done its part of the work, to the soul, Mr Mriofil Ljubić told us that we will not talk about it today, but responsible people from the Council of Europe have no objection to the part adopted by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7866	I would like to thank Mr. Brk's esteemed representative. In order to avoid confusion, it is about the first reading, and all that has come will come only I did not want to complicate things here and say that someone has asked and that a letter comes from the Council of Europe to the Deputy Minister of Human Rights and Refugees next to the live chairman of the Council of Ministers, next to the Minister, I did not want to complicate it here 26. So we don't need any side channels like that here. I think we're in a very cooperative mood. Therefore, everything that has come will be forwarded, only I say I didn't mean to mention it on purpose, but when the already respected representative asked for it, here I thought it was inappropriate for me to mention that communication goes past the Council of Ministers here and that a letter comes to the persons where it is not appropriate to come so. That's it. Is anyone else picking up? If it does not appear, I suggest we make a statement on the proposal for a bill on the movement and residence of foreigners and asylum in the first reading. Who's in? Who's against it? The abstentions? Of the 36 that are here 24 for – 8 v – 2 abstentions. So we also need an entity. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Thank you. Who's from RS for? From Federation 22 for – RS 3 for. So there's a reconciliation procedure, since he didn't get the necessary majority. We're moving to agenda 12. Ad.12. Proposal for a law on interstate and inter-entity communications – first reading – the legislators of the law, respected representatives of Mr Malkić, Begović, Buturović, the bill was sent to MPs 6.2. o.g. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 8.3.2002. The competent Commission for Transport and Communications submitted its report on 22.08. Debate and decide on first reading. Who's answering for a word? If no one answers, I suggest we make a statement. Who's in? - First reading. Who's against? Thank you. Restraint? Of the 37 who are there 22 for – 10 against without the votes abstention. Entirely. Who's from RS for? Thank you. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? 22 from the Federation of BiH – 3 from RS. So, there's no entity and he's going for a tryout. Ad.13. Proposal for a law on road transport transport contracts – first reading - the legislators of the law are a respected representative of the gentleman: Malkić, Begović, Buturevićć The bill was sent to 6.02. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion 8/03. The committee responsible delivered its report on 22.08. I'm opening a rush and then making a decision in my first reading. Who's answering for a word? If no one hears from me, I'll close the argument and I suggest we make a statement. 27 Who's in favor of the bill? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Restraint? Of the 37 who voted 25 for – 10 against without the abstentions. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Thank you. Who's from RS for? Thank you. From the Federation of BiH 22 for RS 3 to go more coherent. Ad.14. Proposal for a Law on State Roads, first reading – Proposers are respected representatives of Mr Malkić, Begović, Buturovićć The bill was sent to 6.02. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its report on 8 March, and the committee responsible delivered its report on 22 October 2008. I'm opening a debate in my first reading on this bill. Who's answering for a word? If no one's answering, I suggest we make a statement as to who's in favor of the bill. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. The abstentions? Of the 37 who voted 25-10 votes against without abstention. Who's from RS for? Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Thank you. From RS 3 for – from the Federation of BiH 20 for. He's going for the consent procedure. So he didn't get the necessary majority. Ad.15. The proposal for a law on road safety, first reading – the promoters are respected advocates Mr Malkić, Begović, Buturovićć This legislative proposal was also sent to the lawmakers on February 6th. Opinion of the Constitutional-First Commission was delivered on 8 March and the report by the committee responsible on 22 August o.g. I'm opening a debate about the bill. Who's answering for a word? If no one's answering, I'm closing the dispersion. I suggest we make a statement on the proposal for a law on the basis of road safety. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. The abstentions? Of the 37 who voted 26 in favour – 10 against – without the abstentions. We've got to do it entietically. From the Federation of BiH who's in favour? Thank you. From RS who's in favour? Thank you. 22 from the Federation of BiH for RS 3 for. So, he didn't get the necessary majority going for a match. Ad.16. Proposal for a law on inland and maritime navigation, first reading – MPs of the respected Mr Malkić, Begović and Buturovićć The bill was sent to representatives on February 6th. Opinion of the Constitutional-First Commission delivered on 8 March. A report by the competent commission delivered on 22 August 2002. 28 I'm opening the first time I read it. Who's answering for a word? If no one hears from me closing the debate, I suggest we make a statement about this bill. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? The abstentions? Of the 37 votes, 25 were against 9 – without the abstentions. Who's from RS for? Thank you. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Thank you. From RS 3 for – from the Federation of BiH 20 for. So, he didn't get the necessary entity majority going according-to procedure. Ad.17. Proposal for a Law on Post, first reading – Proposers are respected advocates Mr Malkić, Buturović, Begović, Proposal for a Law, also addressed to MPs on February 6th o.g. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 8 March. The competent Commission for Transport and Communications delivered its report on 22 August 2002. I'm opening a first-reading splinter. Who's answering for a word? If no one's answering, I'm closing the dispersion. I suggest we make a statement about this bill in the first reading. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. The abstentions? Of the 37 who are there – 24 for – 9 against without the votes abstention. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Thank you. Who's from RS for? From Federation of BiH 21 for. From RS 3 for. So there's no need for a majority. There's a consent procedure going on. What we're dealing with here is consenting. We're going to have to extend our mandate to this agreement. Ad.18. A report by the Commission for Human First, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum on visits to a number of municipalities You have received a report from the Commission on a visit to a larger number of municipalities. As you have seen, the Commission is also proposing this time the conclusions that the House should adopt by adopting a report. I'm opening a debate on this report. The word has been respected by Mr Brka's representative as President of the Commission and as one d'rapporteur certainly.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7867	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues, I will try to be very expedient and I will just say a few words and conclusions. Namely, since it is practically rounding up at this session one part of the work of this Parliament's session on these activities from the Commission for Human Rights and Refugees on a visit to a number of municipalities, I will draw a few sentences myself. We have visited over 40 municipalities throughout BiH during this term of office, and some of these municipalities have been visited several times and we have repeatedly submitted this report to this Parliament and I can proudly say that we have made a number of dozens of conclusions, probably something around 29 70 we have proposed to this Parliament. Just about one conclusion, if you remember those 70 we didn't have a consensus, just about one. Many have been skeptical about the work of this commission for which I take it upon myself to say that in this term of office, it has satisfied and made a quality step in this regard and I am sure that it has had an impact on the field of responsible political structures, not only in people but also in those who cared about these visits. That is why I would like to say here a recommendation to people who are sitting in these benches for the next four years, based on my experience, I am sure 100% that parliamentarians have to go on the ground more often and talk more often to responsible political people on the ground as well as to ordinary citizens, and that this way will certainly make things easier and will bring things together for the benefit of BiH citizens throughout BiH. And I will now say very briefly here that in the last tour of our visits we also formed three groups, one in which I, Mrs. Kamberović and Miloš Jovanović, visited the municipality of Center, Ilijas, Iija, Odzak and Brcko. The second group in the company of Mr Grabovac Titan, Mustava Cuplov, Bahrija Osmanović was visiting Livna, Tomislavgrad, Kupres, Kiseljak, Jajic and Dobric. The third group, composed of Mr Filipović Omer and Mr Franjo Majdandžić, Mr Stokić Dušan, was scheduled to visit Dervent, Teslić, Prijedor and Sanski Most. During the visits themselves, there were some small adjustments, but they did not significantly affect the course of our visits. Since you have received this material and I will not say anything about these visits, but, indeed, I find it important and I find it significant that the conclusions adopted unanimously on the Commission and unanimously, as the Commission and unanimously propose to Parliament for the public and for our media, I hope that sometimes someone will publish some of these conclusions and, if I have to say in the end, that I am not at all satisfied with the work of our media when visiting these commissions on the ground was. I have asked several times in the previous reports here to present the conclusions in the daily press or in other media. But it's just that our editors don't have hearing, probably because this isn't scandals. This is work, one hard work, continuous work, a constant work that, however, brings results, but is not closely monitored. That's why I'm here to read those conclusions and thank you for your patience. 1. It is necessary to implement the adopted amendments to the Constitution of the Federation of BiH and the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia as soon as possible, based on the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people throughout the BiH area, the mains of the municipal level. 2. The Council of Ministers is tasked with launching an initiative to harmonise entity laws on refugees and displaced persons as well as harmonising these laws with the state law on refugees and displaced persons in BiH. 3. It tasks the Ministry of Human First and Refugees to launch an initiative to establish a single BiH-level database on refugees and displaced persons, as well as data on submitted claims for the return of private property and housing on which there is a tenant right, as well as data on returnees introduced in the possession of property. 4. It is necessary to establish a refugee and displaced property fund at the Central Bank of BiH, which is also an obligation under the Dayton Agreement. The fund would be charged from entity budgets 30 as from dedicated donations. The Fund would finance return and credit self-employment and employment of returnees to contribute to sustainable return. 5. It is necessary to establish adequate co-operation between the ministries of the Federation of BiH, RS and Brcko District in order to address the health protection of the population of the entity's border areas. Also, entity ministries require better coverage of wood protection in general, which is an intense return of refugees and displaced persons. Six. At the level of the Federation of BiH, it is necessary to pass a law on the rights of fighters and, at the level of cantons and municipalities, to ensure equal financial treatment for the HVO and the BiH Army in order to reduce the housing problems of these categories of population. Seven. It is recommended that entity ministries that have jurisdiction in the resolution on issues of fighters, disabled and civilian war victims establish co-ordination of rights and these categories of population in the Federation of BiH and RS. 8. Address BiH entities' governments and seek greater dynamics of law-making and relief for the employment of a refugee and exiled population. Nine. BiH's foreign ministry aims to carry out activities towards the SRJ to ensure the country's processing and use of property on both sides of the BiH-Yugoslavia border to regulate borders in the part with Yugoslavia. Ten. To speed up the adoption of regulations that would improve privatisation regulations and the restitution process, thus enabling greater momentum of private entrepreneurship and employment. 11. The BiH Council of Ministers should step up activities with the competent authorities of the SRJ and the Republic of Croatia on the faster return of refugees both from Yugoslavia and the Republic of Croatia to BiH and those from BiH to these countries. 12. In order to ensure a faster and sustainable return of refugees and displaced persons, it is necessary to mobilise all BiH authorities as well as its entities in order to provide greater funds for the return, improvement of accommodation capacity and faster resolution of the unemployment of returnees, and this should be a permanent task of the current authorities. 13. That the competent institutions of BiH and its entities in charge of controlling employment relations in businesses and institutions record the status of BiH citizens in international humanitarian and other organisations and take the necessary measures to curb illegal employment. 14. Requesting competent authorities to demining the priority in demining to be property and property of returnees of their beams easier to reintegrate. 15. That the entity ministries agree on education programmes as soon as possible, to overcome the large gaps between them, and to overcome the non-recognition of these... 16. Request the competent authorities to achieve faster and unconditional co-operation between the municipalities of both entities in terms of resolving the two-way return of the displaced population. 31 17. It requires competent companies and other authorities to prioritise full electrification and water supply of the most returnees and to avoid the population in order to create favourable conditions for their survival. 18. Directly meet with the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees as well as the BiH Refugee Resoring Ministry of Refugees with a view to establishing the control activities of the implementation of these conclusions. I ask you as colleagues and Parliament that these conclusions be adopted in Parliament, because indeed, after a broad consideration, the Commission adopted them and considered them worthy of attention to be presented to the public as Parliament's position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7868	I would like to thank Mr. Brk's representative. If you've agreed, I don't think there's gonna be a problem here. The word has a respected representative, Mr Jovanović. But if you were unique, I don't think we're gonna have a big debate here. I think the conclusions are pretty good. They're a little wide.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7869	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I have to admit that I wasn't on the Commission when the conclusions were adopted, and the rest were good, so I shouldn't say it was unanimous, and the main reason I'm going to vote against this report is because I asked the Commission to deliver a report to us in Canton Sarajevo on the return of apartments. We were visiting three municipalities in Sarajevo. However, municipalities are not competent to make such data. I've asked and prayed on the Commission, and it seems to me that I've been twice to deliver reports in Canton of Sarajevo, meaning, about the return of apartments. That information, we didn't get that information and to say that's one of the reasons why I'm going to vote against this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7870	(speaks from the place and you can't hear it.)
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7871	Mr. Franjo Majdandžić has the floor. Is anyone else answering for word?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7872	I would like to propose, and I would ask you to support me if that is clear, cooperative and reasonable, in the upcoming session of the 24th, to be one item of the agenda where we will consider this issue and to assign the corresponding ministry to carry out this further in its duties and through the relevant entity ministries. This is because we have taken the appropriate obligations, which we are obliged to do by all of our obligations, and what, if we don't, we will be very much, to say unserious, but we will very much be unoperative and not get those municipalities from us, and down the executives who, indeed, are difficult and who expect that help from us. 32 So my proposal is to include one point. Let these conclusions go, no matter how much they stand or don't stand, and we open a debate with the corresponding ministry of ours that we have on this issue where we agree on what other conclusions they are and what further this ministry will implement directly and through the Ministry of Entity in order to make our commitment to me do so. Look, we're that way, what we're supposed to do on the ground and here and we're done and then it goes on its own during the cooperative into that realization. I'd like to ask you, I really feel like I'm right and that you support me and that it's going to be done that way. Everything else will be, you know how she said, closed the papers and the second, the third, and we don't benefit from that. There's a lot of problems where we're going to say it, and I wouldn't say it here right now and we have a few, I'd say, burning points that we need and I don't know that's, come on, Grahovo, Srebrenica, so part of the Sango Bridge on the return of citizens of Serbian nationality and theirs to say so. So we have these and these very cardinals that need urgent, explicit solutions, etc. Eh, now I don't know how we're gonna make it happen that my support, my suggestion whether you support it or not, is either we want to vote on it or it's going to come in as a proposal for my Kolegijum to make that decision. Look how we should do it now, but let's just end it and do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7873	I thank the esteemed representative Mr. Franja Majdandžić. The word has a distinguished representative, Mrs Violeta Kamberović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7874	Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to point out that the Committee on Human Rights and Refugees and Asylum is the first commission in this Parliament that has worked systematically, which has come out on the ground and has faced directly the problems of the people we represent here. If all the committees in this House did what this committee did, I think we'd get some results. I say this only because, I repeat, the Commission has faced and faced the problems of people with people's life problems, and I think that some politicians, and also MPs in this House, are not away from their constituents for potential miles but light years, and may need to move more on the ground and watch people live and face what they are facing. I am therefore saying that this report and these conclusions that the Commission has made should be adopted and should be adopted and I would agree with Mr Majdandžić that the Ministry of Refugees and displaced persons should take action based on these conclusions so that people return to their homes as soon as possible in order to achieve a sustainable return of people and finally reach their homes and see their eyes, as they say.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7875	I thank the distinguished representative, Mrs. Violeta Kamberović. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7876	I just came out to confirm that sentence I just said. Our mutual contacts and constant conversations and permanent stay together on the ground will certainly bring results. Why am I drawing this again? Because I am 100% sure that 33 Mr. Jovanović was at that session would adopt these conclusions 100% I know. I would just like Mr Jovanović to tell me what is the contention, which the Commission adopted unanimously when it was not present. If he's controversial, I'm gonna have to remove him immediately. I don't think there's any dispute. That is, I am absolutely certain that no normal man will find in that conclusion anything controversial about anything that will violate the rights of any BiH citizen, any one. There is not a single conclusion that can be said to have endangered an individual or a people and this is only for the reason that, perhaps something else I would not like to say here, because I do have very correct relations with Mr. Jovanovic all these two years and I will try to keep them on. But I'd like to be quite specific to say, eh, this conclusion is controversial and that's why I wasn't on the Commission but I can't accept it. There's no such thing as simple, I'm saying there's no such conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7877	I would like to thank Mr. Brk's esteemed representative. Mr. Marko Amidžić has an honorable protégé.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7878	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, I am one of those who is concerned with the return seems to have always given me the proper importance in his engagement. And in previous similar discussions, I've been involved in this commission's reports. You remember that I also made some suggestions at one point when the first or second debates seemed to me when we always came to conclusions and we always got them presented as the Commission's opinion and we always pleaded and we could never adopt them. It is evident that this home means he could not draw those conclusions and we cannot then claim that we in the working method or commission or individually achieved some extraordinary results and that we represented some unique view of the House on these issues. So that's my opinion and it'll probably determine my relationship to these conclusions. Especially at this point, this issue of the refugee population and its fate and troubles should not be used very much. And, I'm not ready to talk about it much. I think this report came now in a bit of a difficult and awkward time, that's how many choices we have for 10-15 days, and we need again that people who have had that accident don't even know how many times they've been led or watered by BiH from one end to another who's been approved or promised this and that, etc. All BiH authorities seem to have particularly dealt with the issue of return in its entities, but the question is always whether the issue is put on the agenda in the way one government works. Please, what does "return" mean? Let's go a little bit, let's be banal in the interpretation if we need words, 'cause it looks like someone needs to explain it. What does "return" mean? What kind of return is it to give me back the foundation of my house or yard and the field of other nuts? And, is that a particular exercise of authority on that issue? What we offered these people in conversations and stories. What does restitution mean? Restitucio means Latin back to fast and to first, to establish a previous situation, the process is legal terminology, to return to the previous position, to establish broken rights. When we talk about restitution we have a condition that we have a law in one entity in another we have no restitutions. We're talking about restitution by the '90s. Something until '90. But I also understand the return as a goal of restitution and homework. If restitution is what it is, it means to people of '91. and '92. The year should return what belongs to them. The fund, the Social Fund for Return, means that the government is specifically starting to deal with the issue of compensation of BiH citizens for lost property in the war. That's what it means. The state will be clean 34 in front of me when I get back what I had in '92. the years when the war started and if someone took it, crashed it, drove it or something else. So I think we need very clear and clean laws in this area. We don't have time to bring them. We don't need a lot of politics and stories about who's to come back who's to make promises, who's to help someone of 5 or 10 thousand marks, or who's to get a block and a chip that makes himself the house he had. So, I want to point out that, regardless of what we've been dealing with these issues often, we've been playing with methods very often and... The government needs to come before its citizens and tell them who lost what in the war that someone has to make up for it, and there's no one else but either a state or an entity or a community who in their jurisdiction or that military force, and they're all from this country that did it and they know what they did, etc. We need to legally ask these questions in terms of compensation, not from the compensation of property on human rights, and not in terms of let us help them to be treated or employed there, and I have invested some of my 30 years of working life into some health fund in some pension fund, etc. If we want to make recommendations from the gentlemen of the future government, we'd better say that we haven't done much in this field. You know why. There was probably resistance on the ground, it's also a fact that if the government wants to be serious about voters next and future, and not quite as unserious as we do, it has to bring those regulations and those first people realize in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7879	I thank the honourable representative, Mr Amidžić. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Cuplov.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7880	I will begin my address with paraphrasing two statements, Mr Amidžić will not be angry with me in which he says that in this country everyone is a refugee. I, as a member of the Commission, must say that the Commission has failed to deal with life, related to an extremely difficult area, which is the return of what the Dayton Agreement requires, and not only is the government not adequately dealt with, but even that part of Annex VII of the Dayton Agreement, which crystal clears that if you find your foundations, I rephrase this situation, someone must make up for what you have been destroyed. Unfortunately, life is what it is. A part of the refugees is under tents today and we cannot wait for the full legal regulation that should be brought from this area and that life goes in this segment in the way that it is going right now. We tried to be very useful and I think as a member of the Commission that we did this job well, not wanting to praise us at all. Our attempts to animate with the conclusions of Parliament in which we are all here together are precisely on this background, not of political nature, but of life. Our conclusions, if they were binding on the bodies that we call here in a certain way for part of the job, could be done significantly in this existing legislation. The thing is that what and what it is, the law, which is the legal regulation in this area, is not being implemented in the field. Believe me, we never wanted to impose our conclusions here. They were on the verge of life trying to complete the problems we found in the field. That's exactly what your conclusions are on. Here, if you look at today's conclusions, you'll see that if part of these conclusions 50% of these conclusions today were binding on those who are in charge of that part of the problem, we would have a significantly 35 better situation with these people. Often not leaving without talking to people who are in one problem. We have a completely different proposition. The people who came back have a lot of problems. People come back and it's impossible that every day they live their lives, every day they don't have electricity, they don't have a job every day, they don't have health care, and it's going on right now. Of course, the legislation in this area is up ahead and part of the proposed laws are not the best solutions but will be improved. You can or cannot adopt our conclusions, but by not adopting conclusions we remain on what we have brought here as a problem, which we have sent in the report, but we are not offering any solution. It is our humble attempt to offer solutions to certain problems.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7881	I would like to thank Mr. Mustafa Cuplov, the honourable representative. Rijeka has a respected representative, Bahrija Osmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7882	As a member of this committee, I must express great dissatisfaction with my fellow Members that they do not trust us with what we have written and those measures that we have proposed. Gentlemen, you have chosen this committee. I am responsibly telling you that the commission's duties of all the commissions that were ahead of us were the most difficult. What we saw on the ground, not from the cabinets of the hall, but in the field, gentlemen, after seven years of Dejton's signing, it's unfortunate that we have our citizens, citizens of BiH, no matter what faith and confession they live in collective accommodation. I can't agree that they couldn't have a roof over their heads until today. This country is rich in both land and land. The woods and the tow truckes have gone somewhere by my house every day, and I don't know where, probably those who run it probably know. We have such equipped workshops, starting with carpentry, locksmithies, and not saying that to this day we could have all and one unhappy who was without a roof over his head bothered to have his own home. In addition to saying, it is our responsibility, for us here, and for all those before us, to remember that a good part of our population is in collective accommodation. I can only mention the municipality of Dobrotic, and these, unfortunately, are a large number. That the Elektrojajce are in close proximity and that households could connect to an electric current of five or six kilometers of air. The international organisation that conditioned such facilities to be raised was supposed to have electricity that we didn't have the money to get to the destination. I'm telling you that everything that's written in our reports and all the conclusions had only one intention to once again confirm what is on the ground and that we once again tell our own that it would be better for those who wait every day and that they should welcome these cold winter days under tents and huts. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7883	I thank the distinguished representative, Mrs. Bahrija Osmanović. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Dušan Stokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7884	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, esteemed guests, since I am a member of the Commission myself, I would like to say that this commission, indeed, has made a great effort in all this time trying to visit a large number of municipalities in the whole of BiH in order, indeed, to get a more objective picture of all the problems faced by refugees and displaced persons in BiH on 36 grounds. As far as the conclusions are concerned, however, I do not have any big comments, which I have learned from Miloš that in Canton of Sarajevo, or Sarajevo, when they were not getting all the information that is very important, which is important to make certain conclusions, I think that the Commission, or the group that went to Sarajevo, should have, in the preparation itself, been required to insist on the authorities to provide these data so that they could gain real insight into the situation on the ground. I mean, it's very Sarajevo, or Canton Sarajevo itself, and the city of Sarajevo itself is a very important region, we know how many Srbin lived in Sarajevo before the war. How many private housing units and apartments were owned by the Serb population in Sarajevo and we do not know what the situation is today. Is that, I don't want to believe that it's consciously done, it's a data that wasn't available to that group and that's why I'm joining Miloš for the very conclusions in general, I don't have any big comments. I think in this way we can't get a complete picture, because the goal of these reports is to put pressure on both the public and certain institutions that need to solve these problems to improve what is not good and we're missing basic data based on which we're going to present how the situation in Sarajevo is, or in the city of Sarajevo itself. Therefore, there are some reserves which I, as a member of the Commission, cannot vote for this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7885	I would like to thank Mr. Stokić's esteemed representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mrs Violeta Kamberović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7886	I have to react to what Mr. Stokić said we can't decide. We can, Mr. Stokić, you were a member of the Commission and you were with me in the field and with all the other members and you saw well the conditions of living people and what was happening to them on the ground. Therefore, we can give the report and conclusions, and it is up to you, gentlemen, that you decide whether to vote yes or no, I just think that what we saw is relevant, Mr Stokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7887	I thank the distinguished representative, Mrs. Kamberović. The Republic has a distinguished representative, Mr. Stokić, and let Mr. brkati be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7888	Mrs. Kamberović, I guess we didn't understand each other. I didn't say I was against conclusions in general. But the bottom line is, the point is, if we want to make quality conclusions that will have the ultimate effect, then it's important that some of the important things are listed in that report, and that's what we haven't been able to get here that's clouding the whole situation, that's what the statistics say, something that's not so important to show and what's important to keep quiet. So that's what my objection to all of it is about. I don't mind. You said right, we went around and we saw the misery has gone too far. However, if we have 37 good intentions to the end, we must be honest to the end and express honestly in all municipalities the situation without hair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7889	I would like to thank Mr. Stokić's esteemed representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7890	I apologize for going out for the third time, but I really must, after all, have not had any hairstyle, I immediately reject it, and as chairman of the Commission and as a member of the Commission, it is simply not true. It is true that Mr. Jovanović requested that report from Canton. We didn't really have it, and it's true that the next day practically after I visited with the secretary of the Commission who wrote the memo, I signed the memo, sent that report to Canton. That report Mr. Jovanović requested. As for the Commission, or the Parlment of us here, we asked Canton to do so. We haven't got that yet. Does this mean that because of one request, everything we've done is not adopted. In other words, this is our practically last session. I thought we should round this up, and that's why I thought, really, before Senator Miloš told me he wasn't going to vote for this, because we unanimously adopted it on the Commission, and then no one had any objections. He wasn't on the Commission, and I don't know he wouldn't vote unless he was on the Commission if eight of us voted. That's why I'm, indeed, rejecting any intention, of someone ugly to hide something, but it's in the process and the next parliament let's keep working on this where we left off. That's why I'm, indeed, asking the chairman to put this to a vote and let's know who voted for these 18 conclusions, and let the brother and who didn't vote. Which we must always be unique. Let the people know who is for, I would beg someone from the media, pray, if I had the money I would pay, I can't, I would pray that someone publish those 18 conclusions, which the Commission unanimously adopted and that the people see what the conclusions are and that the people know who voted for them and that the people of all BiH know who voted for them.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7891	I'd like to thank Mr. Brk's esteemed representative. I am concluding the debate, since the Commission has proposed that we make a statement on the adoption of the report with conclusions. I put the report and the conclusions on the plea. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Abstained? Of the 34 who are, in fact, 32 who are there – 24 for – 2 against – 6 abstentions. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Thank you. Who's from RS for? Federation 20 for – RS 3 for means of compliance. 38 Ad.19. A report on the work of the Commission to examine the status of persons naturalised during the period 6.4.992 until the entry into force of the BiH Constitution you received the report. There's no one to explain. I'm having a discussion about this report. Mr. Željko Bilbija.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7892	Dear gentlemen, since there is no one to explain I suggest that I take this off the agenda, it is unnecessary to consider it and, after that, I demand a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7893	Is it Odman?
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7894	After this. The suggestion is to take it off.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7895	I think most of us will agree that maybe we should postpone the debate on this report. Do you agree to delay the discussion of this report, since there is no one to explain it? Who's to get him off the agenda so far so we don't have to do it at will? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? Of the 32 that are there – 31 for – 1 abstention. So we took this point 19 off the agenda, then we take a half-hour break. I suggest we proceed with the session. [[PAUZA]] We stopped at the 20th item of the agenda, and we took a break for the reasons we were under the point I don't know but who was already there the fourth to delay was a plea about this aviation law in reaching an agreement and the position of both the Ugly College and the Expansive College to finally declare ourselves behind these ratifications and there is a need for adoption and I think we have the possibility to pass this law today. I'm opening the 20th agenda. Ad.20. Report by the Commission on Finance and Budget on the specific audit issue for the CIP project. Does the Commission's representative have any? The word has been respected by Ms Emina Zaćiragić, also the President of the Commission
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7896	The Finance and Budget Commission has received an initiative from the BiH presidency to consider the CIPS project issue and the election law issue regarding the choice of the best bidder to achieve their projects. The Commission also received a letter from the College of the House of Representatives to be designated as a competent commission to put this into practice. This is a bit of a specific position for the Commission, as it is acting in accordance with the Law on the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions. This law provides that the Commission for Finance and Budget can collect data 39 on such events and that Parliament is making a decision whether or not there will be a special audit. The Commission has asked the Election Commission and the Council of Ministers to provide information on the project and as far as I know these data have come to Parliament and are very extensive. It is up to Parliament to declare whether it will determine a special audit. The Commission was unable to collect more data, or to carry out an analysis of these data, because these are extremely extensive data and could only do so adequately to arrange for the Office for Audit, here are representatives of the Office for Audit, and if Parliament decides that it needs a special audit then the Office for Audit will go into the procedure to examine the case. The Commission has not made a proposal either, as it is not in charge of making such a proposal, the House decision is not final on the specific audit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7897	I would like to thank the honourable representative Mrs Emina Zaćiragić, who, on behalf of the Commission, explained the Commission's position, opening a debate on this report. Who's answering for a word? So, in Article 16. The law on audits, that general production can at any time undergo a special audit at the request of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Mijatović.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7898	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished colleagues, to me as far as I know, here are these documents from the CIPS project, but yet not a single significant document of BiH can be printed in BiH. I don't know if one was printed, so by excuse I don't know all of whose, but unfortunately, from the BiH authorities, here, take either the Council of Ministers or the competent institutions that we don't have techniques or that we're expensive etc. I think, if we want to be a state, and in that country we can't print a single document, then I don't even know what we're more attractive about, and I don't think that we as a Parliament should allow it in the future. And here, too, I am not in a position to regularly monitor all the various printings that happen outside BiH, and if the previous excuse is that it is due to the fact that it would happen honestly honestly, in quality and I don't know everything like that. It turns out that it is always done at least uncleanly or secretly or under suspicion of taking commissions which, as well as in what way, there is me as some ordinary parliamentarian I cannot know. And I think you gentlemen are in a similar situation. I am absolutely the team to perform a special review here and to draw attention in the future that at the very least we want to open up to Europe and introduce competition, the market and BiH as a state, but that we have little more confidence in it, so that at least we can print something in it.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7899	I thank the esteemed representative, Mr. Mijatović. Mr. Marko Amidžić has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7900	Madam Chairman, fellow MPs, it would be good if we tried to get back into matter. I would ask my colleagues who have raised this question, even if it isn't a commission or someone else update it at the moment so that we can conduct this debate. When this question was asked there were both names and some ministers and deputies, etc. That's when Dom came out, as much as I could put in this little chip, to carry out that audit, and to bring 40, deliver a report to the House about it. We here in terms of buying time we now have a Budget Committee that finds that the House can request a special audit. Is this a time when we don't have to discuss these things? Well, here's what we're going to say again today, so maybe we'll conclude that we need a special revision that might be at some point after 5 or 10. I think that, however, we started here, forgive me, this is not a story to the Commission, this is a story to the College and the House. Give people or, frankly, to take this off the agenda and say that we didn't want to or to tell the public that this is how we bought the time by dragging the Commission and delayed these questions for the time when we won't be able to discuss it, that is, to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7901	I thank Mr Amidžić. If no one's answering I can suggest one of, yes
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7902	Will someone please read us the conclusion of home, the conclusion of home on this when this question is asked.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7903	I propose, therefore, we can make clear whether we should accept the opinion of the Commission, which contains both the possibility and the request of the Parliamentary Assembly for a special review. Even if we adopt it doesn't mean without the House of Nations that this process will go on. Therefore, if there is no one else, I propose that we make a statement on this opinion, so the Commission has kept these conclusions. Who's in favour of a special review to be sought in accordance with Article 16? Thank you. Who's against it? The abstentions? Just the results to finish. Of the 36 who pleaded 31 for – 3 abstentions without votes against. So... Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Thank you. Who's from RS for? Thank you. 20 from the Federation for – 13 from Republika Srpska, meaning it was adopted. Now he has the word of Honorable Representative Marko Amidžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7904	Fellow MPs, so I've been abstentioned and this club and I have to explain it for a stenogram. So I did not set myself against the opinion of the Budget Commission at all. Even her opinion was given in the light of the interpretation of the possible procedure and the House was again not made clear by accepting this report except that there is a possibility of a special revision of which it has not been declared and will probably not be made known. I claim, without a complete argument, that until I get a stenogram of the House's conclusion on this issue when the question is asked and initiated at the House that it has been manipulated through the House of Representatives through this way of resolving this issue and that, not by the Commission gentlemen, not by the Commission but by the House but by whom. The simple question was put under the carpet, because 41 was asked the wrong question in the wrong place and at the wrong time probably, but that's how it is. I say that to those who have raised that question and for the sake of the dignity of those people who were mentioned here at the time. Gentlemen and I say again that the House has made no factual statement when it comes to the revision of the CIPS project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7905	I thank Mr. Marko Amidžić. The word has the distinguished representative Mrs Zaćiragić, only briefly.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7906	Please, I'm always short. Don't expect me to hold some strings. This is where Mr Amidžić thinks we haven't adopted a decision to carry out a special audit. We've adopted such a decision and still go to the review office to cover that audit and I don't see what's controversial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2002-09-16-0.u7907	I thank the honourable representative. I note that this request came from the chairmanship of Mr. Belkić and we were the only ones who could give it to the procedure as a College in the procedure. So I don't have my own personal request for an audit because I don't doubt these people. So I'm not asking for an audit. So there's no confusion that I was looking for something or I wasn't looking for it. I usually count if people work with money to work fair. Ad. 21. Giving consent to ratification: a) Agreement on the Development Credit Road Management and Security Project between BiH and the World Bank of the International Association for IDA Development I am opening a crack. Who's answering for a word? If no one answers, I'll close the argument. I suggest we give consent to the ratification of this agreement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Of the 34 who are there 34 voted yes. We unanimously agreed to ratify the agreement under a). b) Convention on Biological Variety of Riodezerneo on 5 June 1992. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? If he doesn't answer, I'll close the debate. I'd like to make a plea to give consent to ratification. Who's in? Thank you. Is it against you? There isn't. Are there any abstentions? There isn't. Of the 36 who voted 36 in favour, so we unanimously adopted and agreed to ratify this Convention. 42 c) UN Convention on the Prevention, Dissertification in countries affected by severe droughts and/or desertification in particular in Africa on 14 October 1994. I'm opening a debate on this convention. I'm closing the debate. I suggest we make it clear that we agree to ratify this convention. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? There isn't. The abstentions? Of the 36 who voted 36 for unanimous. So we agreed. We return to what we have delayed, this is the Commission's Report from the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the BiH Air Law Proposal, the Commission has been sitting, you have received a report from the Commission. Is there any debate on the commission's report? If there isn't, we're obliged to carry out the confession. The Commission did not settle. Who's in second-reading law, second-round second-reading? Thank you. Who's against it? The abstentions? Thank you. Now we're going to this second procedure, so that's just against it. Who's from the RS against? There isn't. Who's from the Federation of BiH against? I agree that we have passed the BiH Aviation Act. We finished the session.
