ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U1	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. Let us start by looking at the agenda for the meeting on 6 June 2019. Changes tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau The Legal Commission asks for the inclusion of the draft law ‘Amendments to the Criminal Law’ (No. 338/Lp13). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( The box “No! ”) ) There are no objections. The order of business has been amended. The Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs asks for the inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government asks to exclude from the agenda of the sitting paragraph 22 - the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Welfare Organisations”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The draft law is therefore excluded from the agenda of the sitting. The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft decision “On extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the Law “Amendments to the Law on Public Welfare Organisations” (No. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications asks for the draft decision on the agenda of the sitting “On the consent of the opening of criminal prosecution against 13. Saeima Member Ati Zakaitistovu’. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs asks to exclude from agenda item 7 of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Orthodox Church of Latvia” from the agenda of the 6 June meeting. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Consequently, the draft law is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission requests that point 19 of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On the declaration of cash at the state border” be excluded from the agenda of the meeting”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended and the draft law has been removed from the agenda of the sitting. Reports by the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Credit Institutions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the United States on Implementation of the Activities of the Private Education Institution “Latvian International School””” be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law on the disposal of real estate for the installation of the state border band of the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Belarus presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Compulsory Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases” be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Energy Drinks” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Declaration of Residence” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes the draft law ‘Amendments to the Criminal Law’ submitted by the Legal Commission (No. 338/Lp13) transferred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media” presented by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” submitted by the Legal Commission be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the granting of leave. This appropriation is intended to cover the cost of any adjustments to remuneration during the financial year in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the The Saeima Bureau has received an application from a Member, Kaspars Gürgen, requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 6 June this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For the granting of unpaid leave to Member Aivars Geidans on 13 June this year. We have to vote. Please call me! We will be voting for the granting of unpaid leave to Member Aivars Gaidāns on 13 June this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Consequently, the decision was taken. Vacation allowance granted. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. The draft decision ‘On approval of Anda Kraukle as a district (city) court judge’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U2	Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 28 May, the draft decision ‘On the approval of Anda Kraukle as a judge of a district (city) court’ was considered. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I am calling for Anda Kraukle to be approved as a district (city) court judge without any limitation of his term of office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U3	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the approval of Anda Kraukle as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Establishment, approval and consideration of reports by the parliamentary committee of inquiry. On the agenda - draft decision “On the objectives of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the implementation of OIC aid, impact, criteria for receiving aid, aid intensity, decision of the European Commission of 24 April 2017 in case SA. 43140 (2015/NN) and the election of members of the members of the judiciary for damage and actions by law enforcement authorities.’ Let us start a debate. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš. So it's a procedure. He could also have spoken from the floor. All right, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U4	I would like to talk about the procedure. I would call for a separate vote in favour of Mr Asheraden's candidacy, given that Mr Asheraden has a conflict of interest if he is in this commission. Such a conflict of interest is not provided for by the law of the Parliamentary Investigation Commissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U5	Thank you. So there is a proposal (do I understand correctly?) To vote for all candidates together and for Mr Asheraden separately? First of all, all candidates, with the exception of Mr Asheraden. So Mārtiņš Steins, Romanas Naudiņš, Viktors Valainis, Ivars Zariņš, Sandis Riekstins and Ieva Krapāne. And then a separate vote. Thank you. One proposal. Does anyone else want to talk about the procedure? No, no? Wait, colleagues! Is there a proposal for such a procedure? Are Members in agreement with this proposal? Members do not want to accept this proposal. So there are other points of view, and we must vote in favour of this proposal, which concerns the procedure. What? Colleagues! We must vote in favour of the proposal: we must vote separately for the delegated members of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the proposal - to vote in favour of the members of the panel Mr Martins Stein, Mr Romanas Moodini, Mr Viktors Valaini, Mr Ivars Zarins, Mr Sandi Riekstins, Mr Ieva Krapani and separately for Mr Arvils Asheraden! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Members therefore decide to vote for all candidates together. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U6	Colleagues! I understand that coalition is coalition, but law is law. And the parliament should, however, comply with the laws. According to Article 4(2) of the Act on Parliamentary Commissions of Inquiry, Members of the Saeima who, acting within the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry, have a conflict of interest may not be elected and acted on within the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry. Arvil Asheraden, operating in the Parliamentary Investigation Commission, is automatically in conflict of interest as Arvils Asheraden was a minister for the economy and was directly responsible for OIC-related issues. Thus, the task of the parliamentary committee of inquiry is to identify those responsible, but potentially one of those responsible for the non-revocation of the OIC may also appear to be Arvil Asheraden. Thus, according to the Parliamentary Commissions of Inquiry law (this provision of the law should be observed by Parliament!) Arvil Asheraden is already in a situation of conflict of interest, as he will investigate what relates to his own activities as a member of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. That has also been the reason why my colleague Linda Liepiņa asked for a separate vote on Arvil Asheraden's presence in the committee. Arvil Asheraden cannot be a member of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission, as this is contrary to Article 4(2) of the Parliamentary Investigation Commissions Act, which I call. Please take this into account and ask Parliament to respect the law at least in this section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U7	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U8	Colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, of course, Mr Asheraden's participation in the Commission would be even desirable. He is certainly very competent in this matter, and it is said without any irony. But indeed, if we look at the task of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, we can see that this is not just about the conditions for implementing the OIC (there, of course, Mr Asheraden would have no connection logically and historically); the task of the committee is also to monitor other points, namely, the monitoring of this support. This affects precisely the responsibility of all the ministers who have been up to this day. And there's a clear conflict of interest. I'm calling... I have nothing against Mr Asheraden personally or in any other way, but I call on you to really read the law and understand that if we strengthen this composition, we violate the law. Absolutely!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U9	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U10	I have not been disappointed by the usefulness of parliamentary committees and the way in which they are set up, but I think this committee is overcoming all the records - now, at the time of its creation. That is obvious! One person - with a clear conflict of interest, but those people who initiated the creation of such a commission, who prepared a task and whose party had promised its constituents that it would fight all of this... they are not directing these people at all to this parliamentary committee of inquiry, but they are directing a person who has no connection with this story and who, I accept, has no competence at all. So I would ask the KPV LV party to come now and here from the platform to justify why you have done so. Have you decided, though, that it would be better for you not to fulfill the promises made to your constituents? Have you understood that it is perhaps again like a new political industry in which just one party has been pushed aside? While you were not at this political stage, you said: yes, it should be stopped! Now that you've come to it and you're responsible for what it looks like, you've suddenly realized that there's nothing better than to investigate: let's just continue to cover this area! If that is not the case, please come and tell me. Just justify your choice: why have you not led the people who really are the most competent, who have worked on this issue, who have been working on the creation of this commission, who have signed up to the creation of such a commission and who have helped prepare this task? Why do you refuse to move them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U11	Mr. Judin, you'd have enough two minutes... Is it already about one and a half? Yeah, thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U12	Yeah. I just want to inform you now. I asked Mr Valaiņa if he did not work as Parliamentary Secretary in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and he just confirmed to me that he was working. Mr. Zarins, he worked for nine or ten years in the regulator. Is that it, Mr. Zarin? I think it is. And I think a number of Members present voted on OIC-related issues. I understand that we can look for a conflict of interest, but... I think it is important for people who understand this to work on the Commission. I do not see any conflict of interest in Mr Asheraden's candidacy and work in this position, and I think he will be able to work effectively because he is familiar with this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U13	Mr. Gobzem, you're going to have one minute? That's enough? The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U14	Mr Judine, as a lawyer, you should know that a conflict of interest arises for those who make decisions. The Minister is the one who takes political decisions on the OIC. They are not accepted by officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U15	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft decision on the impact of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the objectives of the OIC aid implementation, the criteria for receiving aid, the aid intensity, the decision of the European Commission of 24 April 2017 in case SA. 43140 (2015/NN) and for the election of members of the members of the institutions for damage and redress’! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, three, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Colleagues, time to break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name for the statement to the Member Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U16	Dear Members of the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity! In public 12.37 or 12.40 I invite you to the sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U17	Name of the Secretary of the Saeima Andrejs Klementyevs to read the results of the registration as soon as they are prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U18	High honourable Members! Not registered: Gundars Dauge, Sergey Dolgopolovs, Marija Golubeva, Kaspars Girgens, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Rihards Kols, Maris Kučinskis... I don't see... and Jānis Vucāns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U19	Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U20	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. The amendments submitted. The Legal Commission is asking that its draft law on “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” be passed for consideration at first reading without re-examination by the responsible commission. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Law” (No. 338/Lp13) to refer to the committee responsible for the first reading without re-examination. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs asks that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media” drawn up by it be re-examined at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. On the agenda - consideration of Members' requests. Requests received by Members. Member Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Krišāns, Jānis Tutina, Edgars Kucina, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Jānis Adamsons, Arthur Rubika, Boris Cilevičs, Nikolaja Kabanovs and Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis have received a request from the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralf Nemiro, about the avoidance of the Ministry of Economics to provide concrete answers on the substance of the inspections of subsidised power plants. The applicants have asked for a statement of reasons. On behalf of the applicants: Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U21	Colleagues! As you know, there are words and there are works. This is particularly true of the OIC. One thing is what is told to society, the other is what is then actually done. As you remember, last year the whole society was told what kind of hero is now taking place in the OIC sector to finally put it in order to detect fraudsters. We requested information from the Ministry of Economic Affairs - what has it done then. Very interesting things were discovered. As you remember, last year control groups were set up. The first control group was set up in the autumn... last autumn, the next one was created already later. We asked you to find out how many stations these control groups had tested... has actually been tested. It turned out, the Ministry of Economics says five. So five stations have been tested within 250 days. Then a second control group was formed, which also worked for almost half a year. The question is, how much has it checked? The Ministry of Economics says eight. And that's the time when we were told with foam on our lips that these stations are being tested, there's a fight against fraud. Sorry, in the meantime so many stations could have been tested! You could get caught up and go look at them! Go on. We know that the public trader is currently carrying out checks; more than 120 stations have been tested. Have you heard at least one decision taken by the Ministry of Economic Affairs in relation to these checks? We know clearly that there are obvious discrepancies. Let's say, for the same technology, there are dozens, hundreds, of times, of self-consumption varies between different stations. This means that fraud is actually taking place. Have you heard just one decision of the Ministry of Economic Affairs? And that's why... This is obviously one of the reasons why the Ministry of Economics avoids replying to and dealing with the inspections of these power plants. And that's why we write this request, because otherwise... We have every reason to fear that KPV LV (Laughter) ... After the elections have ended and they have been in power, they no longer have to meet their promises. They've seen... I feel like I've seen it as a new political industry. Political parties are simply changing, and it is now under the auspices of a new political scene. A new cover for the continuation of this atmosphere. We very much hope that we will be wrong and that the Ministry of Economics will be able to demonstrate... by your decisions, by your actions... what it has done in the meantime will be able to prove the opposite. Otherwise, I draw the attention of their members of the parliamentary committee of inquiry to the fact that this is also one of the tasks that we will have to evaluate.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U22	Thank you. Motivation time is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U23	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U24	The request shall be submitted to the Requesting Commission. On the agenda - Opinion of the Petitions Commission. Request by Members Alda Gobzems, Linda Liepiņa, Jānis Vacāns, Julia Stepanenko, Raimonds Bergmanis, Ulda Augulis, Gundars Dūke, Jānis Dūklavs, Armands Krauze and Viktors Valaiņš to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On the situation regarding the organisation of elections to the European Parliament”. On behalf of the Commission - Member Linda Liepiņa.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U25	Colleagues! On 29 May this year, the Commission of Petitions examined a request from Members to the Prime Minister Artur Krišjānis Kariņš “On the situation regarding the organisation of elections to the European Parliament”. During the meeting, the members of the Commission heard representatives of the Minister of the Interior, Sandi Ģirgens, Chairman of the Central Electoral Commission, Kristīne Berzins, the institution for the prevention of incidents of State Chancellery and Information Technology Security “CERT.LV”. We have talked and explained long, wide-ranging missions during the elections to the European Parliament, the reasons for them, as well as the measures already taken and still to be taken, we have explained what should be done to ensure that this situation does not recur in the future. Whether this is done or not depends on us all together. The basic voting arrangements in these elections, as in all the previous European Parliament elections, were the votes at the polling station on which the voter was listed. In view of the fact that it is very important for the voter to vote in the district that is most convenient for him on election day, the members of the committee decided to invite the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government to amend the laws governing the election process in order to ensure electronic recording of voters in the district where the voter arrives and wishes to vote. Perhaps we will not only talk and hear about the problems that have been, whether someone will be held accountable. No, it's not a question of today. When voting in favour and nine against, the Commission found that Members' request was rejected and there was no reason to accept this request as a request by the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U26	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U27	Both in the world and in Latvia, a short series called Chernobyl is now very popular, which reflects Soviet power, lies and denial. The situation can also be partly described by the question of the elections to the European Parliament. Let me explain. In this series there is one phrase at the very end, where one of the main characters says: “Lie, it is a debt for the truth, and this debt will have to be repaid sooner or later.” In the context of the elections to the European Parliament... It is known to the general public that they were organised in objective, non-quality and objectively accessible to people. Today to say that the elections to the European Parliament were organised correctly, that no one was responsible for them and that no one had to answer for them, that is a lie. It is a debt that may need to be given back to the truth in the future. That is, if we do not find this problem today, then in the future, we allow our elections, which are one of the most important, if not the most important part of a democratic state, to be organised in a poor quality, it would be a threat to the country. This request for action by Members, and also by the government and the ruling coalition, was not due to the need for a staple but to the need to be courageous. And it's only humane... to recognize... identifying and recognising problems and responsible for these problems, for these disturbances and for this chaos in the context of the elections to the European Parliament. Calling the persons concerned to account. With the rejection of this request we find ourselves in a situation where there are lies in which we say that the Latvian public administration always acts perfectly, it always does everything right; in Latvia criminals are only entrepreneurs, only those people who are not in the state administration or are not in the parliament or are not in a coalition. But it's wrong. And there is no question here about the stability of the coalition. The question here is that the recognition of errors is a fair recognition of errors! - and the detection of responsibilities is the way forward for improvements so that they are never repeated in the future. I admit that this situation is linked to the fact that obviously we are still... Although we want to put ourselves into the European space and the modern world, there is still some post-Soviet feeling in us, at least somewhere inside, that power can cover everything and power can cover everything, nothing in response or nothing in response. That is not right. That is why I am calling, despite the fact that this request has been rejected by the Commission, to approach this issue very seriously, to take the chaos that was very seriously. And... would not have such a small amount for Chernobyl here... in Parliament, which, by the way, allows various irregularities, violations of the law, as we have seen today's vote on the OIC commission, where a person with a conflict of interest is present. I call on you to be accountable to Latvian society and also to be aware that the recognition of your mistakes is not a weakness. That is exactly the power. It is a force that helps all of us to develop together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U28	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U29	Dear colleagues, This amazing ease with which the government took on board these huge problems, in my opinion, which were linked to the conduct of the European Parliament elections, really makes us think about many things, because we hear a lot about the various security risks, we have very many different institutions that evaluate them, look for them, prevent them... but in this case... I think (and you will probably agree with me), the elections - this is the most vulnerable stage in the country's life; at that time, the government must be particularly careful. They need to be carefully prepared so that there are no security risks and that voters have the opportunity to do what they want. But what do we see? That the elections were not ready - the elections were not ready! - accurate and correct, because the firm, which I still understand, has won a check, and on the previous voting day, as we know, there have been problems with the voter's registration system. It was only thanks to the opposition proposal that attempts were made to correct it. It was neither a head of government that proposed these changes to the law nor a coalition. Awesome lightness! Colleagues! This is a huge shame for the government and coalition. What has happened to the preparation and conduct of the elections to the European Parliament. Mr Kariņš is even more ashamed because this request was addressed to him as Head of Government, but when we dealt with his responsibility, when we dealt with compliance with the post, he came to the Saeima, inviting his colleagues from the Cabinet of Ministers to support him morally and to sit here in this box. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Riekstins: “You were elected three!” ) But when we invited him to the Request Commission, he tried to plead that the Minister of the Interior and the Head of the CEC, who looked at each other, could come to his place, and their views did not agree. They insulted each other. One said he didn't have enough money, the other said that communication was bad. Colleagues, this is a huge shame! I call for this request to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U30	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U31	Colleagues! Is the request justified? I think yes, and I will explain why. When this request was addressed to the Commission, of course, there was also a parliamentary secretary... Prime Minister... Head of the CEC, Minister of the Interior. And, as I said earlier, I say today: indeed, much has been done to correct mistakes so that the situation is as good as possible. But the fact that everything was perfect... I think none of us could say that everything really was beautiful - as it should have been. But at the meeting of the commission, as Mrs Stepanenko has already said, it was a feeling that everyone was looking for the guilty, what anyone did, what someone has not done, who has done everything right, who may not have done everything to the end. But what I miss today is that I do not understand why, after such a national failure, the only one who considered it to be an obligation to apologize to the whole Latvian society was the President of Latvia. None of the senior officials considered to be an obligation at least on social networks to record the fact that they apologize to Latvian society for all the mistakes. Either it would be the Minister of the Interior, or it would be the Prime Minister, but someone had to do it. And I think such an elementary thing... I do not ask. The Prime Minister's Demission, I do not ask the Prime Minister to come straight. I demand only one thing - that we fall off arrogant mountains of arrogance and just apologize to Latvian society. I can also apologize to all CEC employees who had to work four hours longer. I think no one had planned that the working time would suddenly be extended by four hours. I also received criticisms from the CEC employees that they had to do so. I am personally sorry to them that they were in this situation, because it was not their fault. I call at least one of the highest officials to this situation rather than to judge that they have done everything and that they are not so guilty at all... As it turns... but simply elementaryly apologize to Latvian society.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U32	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U33	Colleagues! The situation with the European elections is really unpleasant, but not because we did not try here and others did not try to correct... We did a lot, by the way. I should like to thank all Members for having been able to amend the law within one day, to extend the working hours of the compartments, but the institutions and the government, under the supervision or authority of these institutions, are responsible for the conduct of these elections. These failures followed each other, the problems were so many, but the actions taken by the government were very, very slow. As proof of this, we, as the Union of Greens/Farmers, have prepared and here in the Saeima, the proposal for an extension of the electoral period. It could be done by anyone. This could have been done by a coalition, by a government - with such an initiative. And thanks to us, many thousands could vote. But because of the situation, many thousands did not vote. We know the people who came to the pub were waiting... He waited 15 minutes, half an hour, and left. Media representatives told me that even the Minister of the Interior, Ģirgen, had been waiting for 40 minutes in one cell and then left. So I would advise you to check for yourself that even your ministers, your Members and other members of the party, the honourable coalition, were unable to vote on the day and where they wanted to. And that's why someone needs to be responsible. In this case, we can look at the institutional level - we can talk about the responsibility of the CEC as an independent institution or the responsibility of the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs as an institution under the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, Ģirgens, for sending letters... that these letters were found not to have been received. So very, very late was started to correct the situation! But there was actually one very elemental thing that could have been done by the coalition. You've had enough time. Just as we amended this law in one day, we... We were able to change the law at all, and to say that it is possible to vote in any section - that you can go with a passport and stamp the passport. That's an elemental thing! Why was this fool with long, long lists necessary? print the passport, and everything would be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U34	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U35	Dear Members of the Saeima! This election process very brightly highlights one fact that for years the Central Electoral Commission has organised procurements, in which only one firm has actually applied for it and this firm has always won in developing software and ensuring the operation of the software that... has already worked and functions. ( Internouncing call.) We can look at 2009 procurement, 2018 procurement, 2017 procurement, 2014 procurement... both technical specifications and... with regard to many of the requirements that have been included there... In essence, software development is required. One firm, SIA Soar, applies, and for several hundred thousand in each purchase becomes the only winner. This, in my opinion, is a very striking example of what we have also been talking about in the Commission on Sustainable Development in the framework of the E-government. From that, the country should go away. Individual authorities should not be entrusted with the administration and management of projects relating to eGovernment. These institutions lack competence. We often see that, in fact, it is not the Central Electoral Commission that monitors and checks this system from a technical point of view, but it is most often done by the private people themselves - a system in which it is impossible for others, competitors, to get inside and, as a result, a "pump" of money has been created, but the firm can provide itself with very cash purchases for years. I hope that this is one of the things that the new Head of the Central Electoral Commission is going to do and will best delegate these functions to other, much more competent authorities regarding the development of e-solutions.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U36	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U37	Mr. Valaiņš, I know you have the second chance to press the button and come here to apologize if you want to apologize. Do you know what you want to apologize for? Because you're asking for an apology! You want to apologize for being in power when you did not give the money (Dep. V. Valaiņš’ intermediate call.) Central Electoral Commission. There was no regulation, but there was no money. How about that, Mr. Valains? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. U. Plant intermediates.) For this you can safely press the button, come here and all apologize. Of course, thank you very much to all the CEC staff who ensured that these elections would be possible. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. U. Plant intermediates.) But if I'm sorry, then, Mr. Valaiņš, come here safely! We're waiting for you. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U38	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U39	Ladies and gentlemen! There are also various discussions in this House about this election process and the outcome of the European Parliament. A number of parties who did not believe that they would have done so. There is a view that those parties whose elite is based in Riga or the big cities were achieved and had advantages compared to those based in the countryside or whose elite's declared address is at least in the countryside, which could not be reached there on a given day, and so on. In fact, they're all mowing. The answer to that question cannot be given either. It will remain unknown. I do not think that we should worry about this and think which of the parties that started would have gained more votes, but what we should think, talk and make decisions is completely different. For many people it is not enough just once to go to the compartment and exercise their rights. Forgive me, by nature, by spirit, is Article 2 of the Satversme (“Sovereign Power of the State of Latvia belongs to the people of Latvia.” ) infringement. The sad thing in organising these elections is that those who are responsible, and this House, of course, as the legislator, has shown people that we are not dealing with the simplest basic thing: to ensure democratic elections in which people can participate and to allow them to exercise their power. What's worse, we... This was about shopping, I understand, about two. Both who made it fantasticly the “successful” IT system in the country and for postal items. Now how can we get to the absurdity that the Latvian legislator and the government are actually Article 2... entrusts a private company that can send and can not send election notices. We have “Latvijas Pasts”. The law states that notifications must be sent by post. We have Latvijas Pasts, but we still have an intermediate stage in choosing a rather interesting company, to which we actually delegate sovereign power for a week or more. The government in this election did not belong to the people. In this election, power belonged to a private company that sent out notices and a private company that was unable to build an IT system that was working. That's why (here I get to what I wanted to say, why I'm here) this time... and not because I think someone should be abhorred or punished, but this time this has to pass through, name those responsible and have some punishment. It is necessary to restore at least partially the belief that we can implement Article 2 of the Satversme and provide people with the elementary opportunity to vote in elections to the Saeima, the European Parliament or any other elections. And so it cannot be left, because if we accept it as it is now, then there is no reason to make the next elections more qualitative. No if this is legitimate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U40	Name to Member Armand Kraus for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U41	Mr. Bondar! It seems to me that you had time for the Head of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission to put the process in a way that made available funds to the CEC. You, the honourable coalition, did not invite the head of the CEC to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, nor to the government. But, I understand, Mr Bondara is not interested at all in inviting Members to the budget debate, because he is very busy with judicial proceedings in his civil case, where the bank has already had twice as bad a judgment. I understand you have to judge, you don't have time to work in the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U42	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U43	On May 15, 1934, as a result of the coup d'état of the sovereign power of Latvia,... We know how it went. This situation is comparable to today. Because it's not important if I can be hurled by one person with someone... a guard, a security guard or any other company, or a power hurried by a coalition. In other words, how is that power going to take place? We have poor quality, chaotic organisation of the elections. If the New Unity wins, then it's all right, there's no problem. Then we are not looking for those responsible, even though there is chaos. Then we can afford not only not to seek those responsible; we can fail to comply with the decision of the Saeima to abolish the OIC. We can fail, actually violate, decision about... the procedure for the election of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, which shall determine... the law already provides which persons may not be present within this commission. We can rest assuredly afford to do so! It is comparable - it is exactly the same kind of upheaval of power. At that time, power, sovereign state power, no longer belongs to the people of Latvia. And that's a big legal danger. That is why I repeat: we can already lie and say that everything was fine and no one answers. But this debt, this lien debt against the truth to be revealed in the future, will not disappear anywhere. It will have to be returned the same way. The sooner or later such denial of your mistakes will result in a very serious problem. This problem can be a threat to the sovereign power of the country. Because if the elections are held as now in the future, this sovereign power will be under threat even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U44	The name to Member Martin Bondar for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U45	Here's the question... There was a speaker on this platform. This speaker talked about processes and things that he has no understanding at all. Nothing! He's better understood of bees and foxes. You know, when there's one fox, she's still alive. But when you're drunk, - hasta la chicken, baby! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “There will be no translation?” ; from the fraction DECLARES: ‘Translation!’ ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U46	The name to the Member is Att Zakaitistov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U47	Colleagues! I... My time has already begun. Or it's over. I don't know. (Laughter) Thank you very much. Colleagues! I took part in that Panel meeting. The debate really was... hot, let's say that. And if we are talking about cooperation or non-cooperation between the position and the opposition, I would remind you that in the middle of the sitting, if I remember correctly, Mr Dauge from the opposition made a very reasonable proposal that there is one thing to learn from the problem of this election in the future - there is a need for a single electoral register. The establishment of a single electoral register at that committee meeting was supported both by the position and the opposition. And inevitably, if we have to learn something, then... Both the position and the opposition are completely united in this case: there is a need for a register of voters that is not fragmented. When there's a register, there's no such problem either. Thank you to the opposition who made this proposal at the Panel's meeting. This is truly to be supported and will be a priority for the coalition's cooperation partners in the future.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U48	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U49	Dear colleagues, I will repeat what we have also heard in the Commission on Petitions. I understand that we can talk about some improvements in the future. We will certainly support them as well, but it is now who is responsible for the chaos that has been created. Yes, there really were different versions. I understand that there is still no single version, so there were some communication problems that are probably still unresolved. And these funds, too, have not been made available in good time. I would also like to point out once again that, in fact, with the budget... You call it a technical budget, but that is not the case. We know that the new government was involved in budgeting. I do not believe that the Head of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission was in any way present in the budgetary process. I think he took part, and he was also very well aware, that the CEC's budget did not include any funds, but he did nothing to put funds into it. That is why I would have a small recommendation to Mr Bondara - rather than creating ridiculous jokes, to take our responsibilities more seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U50	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, Mrs. Liepiņa, is there something to add? No, no. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the request made by the Member Alda Gobzem, Linda Liepiņa, Jānis Vacāns, Julia Stepanenko, Raimonds Bergmanis, Ulda Augulis, Gundars Dūke, Jānis Dūklavs, Armands Krauze and Viktors Valaiņš to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš “On the Situation of Organisation of the European Parliament Elections”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The request is rejected. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Orthodox Church of Latvia”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U51	Colleagues! We work with Law No. 336Lp13. No proposals have been received. The opinion of the Legal Bureau has been received. I am asking for support for this draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U52	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Orthodox Church of Latvia” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U53	Congratulations to everyone! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U54	On the agenda - draft law on amendments to the Law on the Integration Fund, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs - Member Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U55	Hello, colleagues! After a heated debate on amendments to the Law on the Society Integration Fund, the Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs examined the draft law before the third reading at its meeting on 22 May. I would like to emphasise that everyone had the opportunity to take part in the work on the amendments from the outset. I would like to remind you that the amendments to the SIF law have been seen for a long time in the previous Saeima and no result has been achieved. 13. At the beginning of our mandate... decided to continue the examination of the draft law. In order to move forward relatively quickly and find a common denominator, an informal working group was set up where Members, together with representatives of SIF, NGOs and the Ministry of Culture, discussed better solutions. All agreed that there were problems with the SIF, that is why it needs to be organised and effective and that the bureaucratic burden must be reduced while strengthening the NGO sector and civil society. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to thank the representatives of the Ministry of Culture and the Bureau of Legal Affairs for their work on the amendments and I call on you all to vote in favour of the draft law supported by the Commission. A total of 12 proposals have been submitted. 1. is Mr Valaiņa's proposal to delete the amendments previously proposed. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U56	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U57	2. there is a Member Valaiņa's proposal to change the composition of the Board of the Foundation. The Commission does not support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U58	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U59	3. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal, which is intended to repeal... to the election of the chairman of the Foundation Board... and delete the provision that the Chairperson is elected for five years and that the same person may not be Chairman of the Board for more than five consecutive years. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U60	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U61	4. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal concerning the person authorised by the Prime Minister. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U62	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U63	5. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal that the Society Integration Fund cease to apply on 31 December 2020. The Commission does not support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U64	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U65	Colleagues! In my opinion, a very logical proposal corresponding to a whole series of speeches made during the pre-elections on the need to reduce public administration. And in this case... The Foundation for the Integration of Society has now become a fiction (as opposed to it can not be called); there will be members, ministers, a majority of government representatives, and someone called... In a minority, non-governmental and other sectors. For a long time, the integration fund has lost its meaning and this function could be transferred to the Ministry of Culture in a calm manner so that they can perform this function within their institution. It's like... Today, Mr Feldman referred to feeds; this is also one large feed that would be worth eliminating. The proposal is reasonable - within a year, the government would submit a draft law on termination to the Saeima, and even after six months this fund would cease its activities. This would only be good, and I call for such a proposal to be supported. Many have said... is in such a position that this is the right direction. I think this fund, the way it is now created, will be such a big fat... Either, a political feeder, where political decisions can be made, but with the integration of society... Well, I wonder if it'll be the place where something's gonna be repaired... So, colleagues, I call for support. Let us eliminate one completely unnecessary institution!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U66	Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U67	These amendments to the law, which have now reached the third reading, are aimed precisely at improving the functioning of the Society Integration Fund, namely its organisational functioning. As was already established during the previous reading in the debate, the Society Integration Fund... I didn't get enough... as regards the number of sittings following the statute... it has already been mentioned that at least four meetings per year should be held. The Fund did not do this. There were also other inefficiencies in the operation of the Fund. However, members of the Saeima have always stood up for the Foundation for the Integration of Society as a strong administrator with the functions of tendering and administration of money. If we look at these programmes, which are currently being implemented with the support of the Society Integration Fund, then we can see: Non-governmental organization fund - approved 46 projects, support for the joint camps of the Diaspora and Latvian children - 12 projects, minority and Latvian youth cooperation programme - approved six projects, civil participation promotion programme for the support of the activities of the Diaspora NGOs - 17 projects and - this is very important! - Media support fund competition - 29 projects. So the job can be successful... to say, to make it through this fund. This draft law, which we support today, seeks to improve this organisational structure, and both the members of the Committee on Citizenship, Migration and Public Solidarity, and the members of the Committee on Human Rights and Public Affairs, have said that, first of all, these organisational bits must be dealt with in the Foundation for the Integration of Society and then can get to grips with more fundamental changes to the Foundation for the Integration of Society, but nowhere has the idea that the Society Integration Fund is suddenly dissolved, as Mr Valaiņa's proposal has said. Yes, perhaps someone had a good feed, something that is offended that it will no longer be, and he is perhaps ready to eliminate it, but the Members of the Saeima stand for the full work of the Society Integration Fund and are ready to work in the commissions so that it will be in the future as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U68	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U69	The problem, in my opinion, is that the balance has been broken. And I say that it will be a simple fiction: in the Development Council, the members of the ruling coalition will meet together and will decide how and by whom the Minister should act on these issues. I think there was some balance before. At the moment, the balance has been broken and a political decision has been made that is wrong. The balance should have been maintained. This is not the right direction. That is why I also call for this fund to be abolished, by its very nature. Then hand it over to a ministry right away, so that the ministry... and there will be no more this camp, that there are any competitions, some evaluation. You don't have to deceive yourself!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U70	Name to Member Raiv Dzintar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U71	Dear colleagues, That's what the medium is about. In fact, at least as I understand it and as the National Union understands it, these amendments are necessary precisely because, until now, it has been a feed and its roof has been a mayor of Zemgale municipality, which, as far as I know, comes from the Union of Greens and Farmers. ( Interface: “There can’t be! ”) ) And the question is, why, Mr Valaiņš, with an offer to dispose of this feed, did you not come while it was possible to provide this roof? Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U72	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U73	Hello, fellow Members, again! Society Integration Fund. Probably it's meant to integrate society, isn't it? It could at least be judged by the name. Is it an integral part of society or is it not? That is a big question for me. If I really wanted to integrate society, we would start with this hall and this house: I would stop talking so much about tapes, monuments and moves, and all of us would think together not about different things, but about the whole, for example, how to build the welfare of the country. No funds would then be needed. Thank you to Mr Valaiņš for his proposal to do this... What we talked about... I also believe that it must be hard. That's it! This does not mean that projects should be stopped. The Ministry of Culture or the Ministry of Education and Science, we can look at it in different ways, are those who could work further with these projects. Or if we are talking about integration of society, then everything, as it says, for the people of historical, ethnic communities, in the broadest sense of these words... should be delegated here, not by ministers of any coalition. The delegation of coalition ministers by itself is already contrary to the idea of integration of society. So that I call for support for liquidation, but that does not mean that we are addressing projects. We return the projects either to the Ministry of Culture or the Ministry of Education and Science or to shared responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U74	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U75	Dear colleagues, We have been very active on SIF issues recently, and I think the future of SIF for us is not clear at the moment. There are, of course, problems and the fact that it is not possible to call up a board and decide on matters is a major problem. Clearly, we need to think about how the fund will work in the future. In my opinion, the range of issues that the organisation is dealing with can also be extended. It is very important that the fund is effective, but the amendments we are working on had to be adopted as soon as possible, because we saw that at times... In fact, we cannot even decide because we cannot hold the necessary, necessary sittings. But work with legislation on SIF will continue. With regard to the proposal, it is very beautiful and simple to say: "We are ending next year! There is no foundation - there is no problem." But we have problems. You've probably all heard about, for example, foreign financing that went directly to the fund in the past, now... We actually get it differently. There are institutions that do not trust a fund that believes that they cannot transfer money and can better share it through other organisations. So it's not right to say that everything is good, that everything is good, that everything is normal. I understand the pain of Mr. Valaiņa and some other people - madness, how will the people of the municipality work there, as without planning regions? But it must be borne in mind that in the future both representatives of local governments and any other interested person will be able to come and participate in discussions, and then... That's how it works. But the question that you are discussing is the question - who will lead the SIF? What will be the impact of individuals? In my opinion, it is not right that a body has been set up that is not capable of making decisions. Consequently, my proposal - to support the proposals supported by the Commission and to think about how to build an effective fund and how to work in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U76	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U77	In principle, the only task of the Foundation for the Integration of Society is: what? Split the money. Split public money. Redistribution of public money. Do we not have enough institutions in Latvia to transfer public money? I think it's enough. As we remember, a number of parties promised to reduce public administration a little - also in that flank - before the elections, especially those in this flank. Inefficient public administration. This is one great way to cut public administration. And I would go further. I would call, for example, for KPV LV, BIP, Development/Par! , also the New Unity and the National Association... I would call for a reduction in public administration... If you, coalition partners, cannot agree with each other on how to reduce the entire public sector, reduce it in your ministries of responsibility! You can do that. No one can ban you... For example, in the Ministry of the Interior, how well-known, currently works about 170 people, yes? In comparison, Finland, which has five million inhabitants, employs about 50-60 people in the same Ministry of the Interior. We have where to cut. Start with yourself! Start with your ministries of responsibility! The abolition of the Society Integration Fund could be one - the first - step, and we, the opposition, will support your pre-election in fulfilling your promises.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U78	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U79	Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! No fish, no meat. Usually, it describes something that has failed to the end and that is not clear why it has been designed. In essence, that is what we want to do with the Society Integration Fund: to create an institution that is one that can be said about: neither fish nor meat. I do not support Mr Valaiņa's proposal to wind up the Society Integration Fund. In essence, I think the opposite should be done: the Society Integration Fund should be strengthened, including by centralising the support of non-governmental organisations. Yeah, what's going on? It is very, very fragmented. Sectoral ministries are planning funding to support NGOs, sometimes by duplication, sometimes without knowing what the left is doing. The amount of funding depends on the minister's or the minister's ability to pass through the budget process, which creates uncertainty for non-governmental organisations as well as a lack of a clear, harmonious policy of support. But if the Council of the Foundation for the Integration of Society is set up in the way it is now intended by these amendments, that the majority are ministers, then we must agree with those colleagues who believe that there will not be enough representation. As the ruling coalition will decide, it will. For purely mathematically, it will be possible to vote in favour of non-governmental organisations that are provided for by the Council. And the other thing. Raivis Dzintars... the colleague alleged that he had previously been a representative of the municipalities. On the contrary, I think it was really very good. We can see that already today, the majority of projects of the Society Integration Fund - a disproportionately large proportion - are supported in Riga and a very small part of the funding goes to the regions, but I would say that, on the contrary, the greater the representation of local governments, the greater the possibility of even regional distribution of funding.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U80	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U81	Colleagues! I think we're talking, but we don't know how it was and how it would be. I would like to say that the fund may not have worked well enough so far. But when it comes to the Foundation Council, it represented both regions, non-governmental organisations and the state with ministries, and was also a representative of the President of Latvia. If we count what was here (Interior call.) ... Minister for Foreign Affairs, Minister for Education, Minister for Culture, Minister for Welfare, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development and Minister for Justice... then had a representative of the President, one representative of each planning region, five or six representatives of non-governmental organisations. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Ozola: “How many years did the fund manager change?” ) What does the coalition form now with this proposal? The coalition forms a political feed, as it will be Prime Minister, Minister of Culture, Minister of Education and Science, Minister of Welfare, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, and Minister of Justice - six politicians and four non-governmental organisations. In principle, what is recommended by non-governmental organisations and society is no longer relevant. What politicians say is important. Therefore, the public needs to be clearly aware that these amendments are creating a coalition feed. And when it comes to the past, I would also like to remind you that in the previous Council there were three ministers of the National Alliance.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U82	I closed the debate. Is there something to be added on behalf of the Commission before the vote?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U83	Yes, it is true that there are many problems in SIF. However, the Commission calls on everyone to act constructively. With the amendments proposed by the Commission, we will significantly improve the structure and functioning of the Fund. I would remind you that SIF is an important instrument for supporting NGO sector, civil society, integration and media. On behalf of the Commission, I call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U84	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 10, for - 68, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U85	6. is the proposal of Minister of Culture Daces Melbards. Partly supported and included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U86	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U87	7. is a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs concerning transitional provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U88	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U89	8. is a proposal of the Minister of Culture, which provides that the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers referred to in Section 2(1) of this Law shall be issued until 31 January 2020. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U90	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U91	9. is a proposal of the Minister of Culture, which provides that the Board of the Fund shall issue an open competition to the post of Director of the Fund Secretariat by 2 September 2019 at the latest and shall appoint the candidate selected by the third paragraph of Article 11 of this Law to the post of Director of the Fund Secretariat within two months of the date of the opening of the open competition at the latest. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U92	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U93	10. is a proposal of the Minister of Culture to replace the words ‘not later than 1 June 2019’ in Article 8(9) of the draft law with the words ‘on the date of the public call for tenders’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U94	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U95	11. is a proposal from the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, which provides for the addition of point 10 of the transitional provisions, with the addition that representatives of NGOs in the SIF Council will start to receive remuneration from 1 January 2020. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U96	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U97	12. is a proposal of the Minister of Culture, which provides that the law shall enter into force on the day following its publication. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U98	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U99	On behalf of the Commission, please support the adoption of the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U100	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on the Integration Fund". Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 57, for - 2 and for - 18. The law is passed. On the agenda: Draft law on Amendments to the Criminal Law, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juta Strike.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U101	Hello, dear colleagues! At third reading, we see the draft law on "Amendments to criminal law" (No. 6/Lp13), which includes another draft law on “Amendments to Criminal Law” (No. 15/Lp13). The draft law provides for amendments to ensure compliance of the law with the Council of Europe Convention on the fight against trafficking in human organs, the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the fight against fraud affecting the financial interests of the Union through criminal law and the Directive on the combating of money laundering by criminal law. The draft law also provides for amendments regarding violation of national sanctions of international organisations, vehicle theft, avoidance of court decisions, concealment of objects acquired in criminal proceedings, as well as unlawful handling of the property assigned to them by state officials. I advise everyone to get acquainted with these amendments! Five proposals have been received before the third reading. 1. is the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns, which provides for the exclusion from the first paragraph of Article 22 of the Criminal Law of the reference to objects acquired in criminal proceedings, thus aligning this Article with the amendments already supported. This proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U102	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U103	2. - The legal commission's proposal. The terms contained in the disposition of the first paragraph of Article 139.1 shall be specified. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U104	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U105	3. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is envisaged to increase the sanction to ensure compliance of the provision with that Directive on combating money laundering with criminal law. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U106	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U107	4. - The legal commission's proposal. It is proposed to exclude the reference to the date of entry into force of the amendments. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U108	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U109	5. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is envisaged to clarify the information reference to the Directives. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U110	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U111	On behalf of the Legal Commission, I ask you to support the adoption of the amendments at third, final, reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U112	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the draft law amending the Criminal Law, third, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U113	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U114	Draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Out-of-court Recovery of Debt’, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U115	At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 28 May this year, the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Out-of-court Recovery of Debt’ was examined. The draft law was designed to include administrative penalties for the out-of-court recovery of debts in the law on the provision of non-judicial recovery services without a special authorisation or on the continuation of the provision of extra-judicial recovery services after the suspension or revocation of the licence, as well as to determine the competent authority subject to the imposition of penalties. Two editorial proposals from the Legal Bureau were submitted to the third reading. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U116	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U117	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U118	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U119	I call on my colleagues to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U120	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the law on the out-of-court recovery of debts in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law on ‘Amendments to the Immigration Act’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Aldis Blumbergs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U121	Dear colleagues, The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption discussed the draft law “Amendments to the Immigration Law” before the third reading. In total, three proposals have been received, two of which are Legal Commissions... I am sorry, editorial proposals from the Saeima's Legal Office. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U122	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U123	The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U124	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U125	And 3. is the Commission's own proposal related to the time when part of the law enters into force, i.e. part will enter into force later together with decoding laws and part will enter into force now. The Commission is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U126	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U127	I ask all my colleagues to support these amendments at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U128	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Immigration". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Railway Act’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U129	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Railway Law” for its third reading. I would just remind you that these amendments concern the transposition of the requirements of the directives of the European Parliament and of the Council. Eight proposals have been received for the third reading. 1. is a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U130	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U131	2. is the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Jānis Butāns. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U132	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U133	3. is a proposal from the Legal Office. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U134	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U135	4. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Bhutan. Partly supported, included in proposal 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U136	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U137	5. is the proposal of the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U138	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U139	6. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. And also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U140	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U141	7. is the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Bhutan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U142	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U143	And 8 is the proposal of the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U144	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U145	I call for support at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U146	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendments to the Railway Law" in the third, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to law on the legal movement of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Vitaly Orlovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U147	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Legal Movement of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and Medicinal Products” (No. 212/Lp13), third reading. Three proposals were submitted to the third reading. The proposal was submitted by Mrs Viņķele, Minister for Health. It has not received any support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U148	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Clementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U149	High honourable Members! Today, despite being members of the opposition, I will ask for support from the Minister's proposal. At two or three sittings, we listened carefully to the report from the Ministry of Health and warned us that we were in breach of the international convention. When there were questions about how we could get out of the situation so that we had no international commitment and no problems, we also called on a representative of the Ministry of the Interior, and he persuaded us in the Commission - convinced me and the other Members of the Group SASKAR - that this is a violation of the Convention. We, Latvia, have commitments... Knowing that the majority of Members were not so scrupulous when examining objections from the Ministry, I wrote a letter to the Minister for the Interior, Ģirgen, and received a reply from him. In this letter, I asked him how he treated this provision and whether he was concerned that the Commission on Social and Labour was in breach of international obligations, and he wrote in his reply I received yesterday that the proposal made by the Ministry of Agriculture is not in line with Article 26 of the Convention and actually threatens the implementation of the Convention. I ask Members either to reject the whole draft law today or to support the proposal by Ilze Viņķele so that we do not have any problems at a later stage due to our perhaps lax examination. If I fail to convince you today, I will write to the President of the State, together with my colleagues from the Group SAHHA, that he does not declare this law. But it will be a great shame to the commission, which had the opportunity to invite all experts, and both these experts and the Legal Bureau of the Saeima warned that objections of the Ministry of the Interior were justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U150	I closed the debate. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U151	Yeah. Dear colleagues, The proposal of the Ministry of Health was for second reading... amendments submitted by the Ministry of Agriculture... The Committee had already held a debate at second reading, and the Ministry of Health had already defended the position that the wording proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture should not be supported. The third reading was followed by a proposal which was rejected. There was no unanimous vote in the Commission on this proposal. Experts from the Ministry of Health indicated that the cultivation of cannabis for industrial purposes... a restriction is necessary only for the extraction of fibres and seeds. The wording of the second reading article runs counter to the Convention against the Illicit Movement of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances. This was also pointed out by the International Drug Control Board in a letter to the Ministry of Health. On the other hand, experts in the Ministry of Agriculture believe that such clarification is not necessary if only certified varieties of cannabis are used in pots. The Commission, as I said, did not support the proposal of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U152	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal by Health Minister Ilze Viņķele! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 29, against - 45, refrains - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U153	The proposal was also put forward by the Minister for Health, Mrs Viņķele. This has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U154	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U155	And the third proposal also comes from the Minister for Health. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U156	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U157	Please vote in favour of the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U158	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Legal Movement of Narcotics and Psychotropic Substances and Medicinal Products” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “On the declaration of the Law “On Precursors”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Vitaly Orlovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U159	Dear colleagues, We work with Law No. 213/Lp13. Third reading. No proposals have been received for the third reading. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law on precursors at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U160	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On the recognition of the law “On Precursors” as invalid” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to law on the legal movement of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Edmunds Teirumnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U161	Dear colleagues, The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs works with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Legal Movement of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and Medicinal Products”. Draft law has been developed within the framework of the implementation of the codification system for administrative offences. The draft law establishes administrative offences in the area of the legal circulation of precursors, narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and medicinal products, penalties applicable to them and powers of officials in administrative infringement proceedings. The draft law incorporates those norms which are currently included in the second and seventh paragraphs of Section 46 of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code, as well as in the first paragraph of Section 46.1. In principle, both the types of administrative penalties in force and the amounts of the fines are retained. However, in some cases the rules have been revised to take account of the fact that violations of precursors, narcotics and psychotropic substances and medicinal products can be very dangerous and seriously endanger public health. Article 1 of the draft law shall enter into force in accordance with the general procedure, while the other articles of the draft law shall enter into force at the same time as the Law on Administrative Liability. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U162	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Legal Movement of Narcotics and Psychotropic Substances and Medicinal Products” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U163	20 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U164	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 20 June this year. Draft law “On the Tenth Additional Protocol to the Constitution of the World Postal Union”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U165	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The following three draft laws are related to the ratification of the new legal provisions adopted by the World Postal Union in Latvia. As a first look at the bill “On the Additional Protocol to the Constitution of the World Postal Union”. The Republic of Latvia is a member of the World Postal Union. This Union contributes to the development of international cooperation, provides Member States with the necessary technical support in postal matters as far as possible, provides advisory and mediation functions, issues different rules for international exchange of mail, as well as recommendations and guidelines that help to provide a wide network of modern products and services. One of the basic documents of the World Postal Union is the constitution. In accordance with Article 30(2) of that Constitution, amendments to the Constitution adopted at conventions of the World Postal Union shall be drawn up as additional protocols. In accordance with Article 25(3) of that Constitution, the amendments thereto must be ratified by the Member States. The Tenth Additional Protocol to the Constitution was signed at the Extraordinary Congress of the World Postal Union in Addis Ababa on 7 September 2018. Latvia must ratify it as soon as possible, then the instruments of ratification of the Additional Protocol must be submitted to the Director-General of the International Bureau. The draft law that we are looking at - The 10th Additional Protocol to the Constitution of the World Postal Union - is prepared to approve the 10th Additional Protocol to the Constitution. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U166	Please call me! Let us vote on the draft law on the Second-reading Second-reading Protocol to the Constitution of the World Postal Union! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U167	The deadline for submitting proposals is 11 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U168	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 11 June this year. Draft law on the Additional Protocol to the World Postal Convention, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U169	We can see the bill “On the Additional Protocol to the World Postal Convention”. As I said, Latvia is a member of the World Postal Union, and according to the constitution of this Union, the Member States are bound by the basic documents adopted by the Union - the World Postal Convention and its rules of procedure. Therefore, Latvia has to ratify the Additional Protocol to the World Postal Convention, which was signed on 7 September 2018 at the Extraordinary Congress of the World Postal Union in Addis Ababa and which amended the Convention and its Final Protocol. It should be noted that the Convention contains provisions applicable to international postal services, while the Final Protocol to the Convention contains reservations on the application of the provisions of the Convention. The new Additional Protocol does not impose any new obligations on Latvia. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U170	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on the Additional Protocol to the World Postal Convention at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U171	The deadline for submitting proposals is 11 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U172	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 11 June this year. On the agenda - draft law on the Second Additional Protocol to the General Rules of Procedure of the World Postal Union, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U173	As the third part of this package, we are looking at the draft law on the Second Additional Protocol to the General Rules of Procedure of the World Postal Union. The structures of the World Postal Union are several - Congress, Administrative Board, Postal Board and International Bureau. Within the framework of the General Rules of Procedure, continuity of the Union's work is ensured by two bodies - the Administrative Council and the Postal Board - which coordinate and monitor all activities to promote the development, modernisation, quality assurance and improvement of international postal services. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 22 of the Constitution of the Union, the General Rules of Procedure of the Union shall ensure the application of the Constitution and the functioning of the Union, that is to say, the duties and functions of the bodies of the Union, the principles of election; procedures for the submission of proposals and amendments to the documents of the Union; arbitration procedures; working languages; the ceiling of the Union’s expenditure for the next four-year period, as well as the fees to be paid and their classes. Amendments shall be made to the Constitution and the General Rules of Procedure of the World Postal Union by means of additional protocols. On 7 September 2018, the Second Additional Protocol to the General Rules of Procedure was adopted at the Extraordinary Congress of the World Postal Union in Addis Ababa, which will be ratified by Latvia as a member of the Union. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U174	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading draft law on the Second Additional Protocol to the General Rules of Procedure of the World Postal Union! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U175	The deadline for submitting proposals is 11 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U176	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 11 June this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Accounting”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U177	Good afternoon! We have examined amendments to the Law on Accounting at second reading at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Two amendments concern the introduction of a codification of administrative irregularities and one is the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission on liability and penalties for irregularities in accounting. 1. - Commission proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U178	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U179	2. - a proposal of the Commission, which provides that a warning or a fine of up to 400 fine units shall be imposed on the company for failure to submit to the State Revenue Service an annual report or a consolidated annual report which does not comply with the conditions for keeping accounts, for failure to submit the annual report, the consolidated annual report or the annual report. Similarly, any other infringement shall in all cases be the subject of an alert or a fine in certain units. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U180	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U181	3. is a technical and editorial proposal from the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U182	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U183	I call for a second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U184	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Accounting” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U185	September 2, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U186	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 September this year. Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. After a break, let's start looking at the next draft law. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name of the Secretary of the Saeima Andrejs Klementyevs to read the results of the registration as soon as they are prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U187	High honourable Members! Please, please! No 18 Members registered: Raimonds Bergmanis... I can't see, Gundar Many, Sergey Dolgopolov, Aivars Geidan... I don't see, Inga Goldberg... I don't see, Maria Golubeva, Kaspars Girgen, Ilze Indricsone... I don't see, Oyars Eriks Kalniņš, Alexander Kirštein... I saw it, it was in the podium, thank you... Richard Coll, Maris Kučinskis... It's not, Janine Kursīte... I don't see, Atis Lejiņš... No, Arthur Tom Pelles... No, John Wittenberg... No, Jānis Vucāns and Reinis Znotiņš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U188	Thank you. Interruption until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U189	Honourable Members! We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. Members Strike, Eglitis, Cielēns, Izalnieks and Dzintars are asking for amendments to the agenda of the 6 June meeting and for the transposition of paragraph 45 of the draft law "Amendments to the Criminal Law" (No. 338/Lp13) - before point 28 of the agenda. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. On the agenda: Draft law on Amendments to Criminal Law, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juta Strike. ( Interface: “On procedure! ”) ) Please, about the procedure!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U190	Dear colleagues,
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U191	Please turn on the microphone for Uldis Augulis! Please turn on the microphone for Uldis Augulis!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U192	Chairman of the Saeima, I would like to call for a quorum to be examined. ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U193	Honourable Members! So there is a call to check the presence of Members in the Chamber. Quorum check. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! Reportedly 55 members. We can go on with the Saeima sitting. On the agenda - Draft law amending the Criminal Law (No. 338/Lp13), first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juta Strike.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U194	Amendments are proposed to the law to improve the fight against cross-border crime and to limit money laundering and terrorism opportunities. The draft law provides for responsibility for non-declaration or false declaration of cash when crossing the external or internal borders of the country. The draft law was initially examined by a range of experts under the auspices of the Ministry of Justice. Before the draft law was submitted to the Saeima for consideration, it was discussed at several sub-committee meetings of the Criminal Law Policy; extensive discussions were also held at the meeting of the Legal Commission on 4 June, which also decided to direct the draft law to the Saeima for consideration. The current regulation only applies to liability for non-declaration or false declaration of the proceeds of crime when crossing the external borders of the European Union. The amendments to the criminal law provide for liability for non-declaration or false declaration of cash when crossing the external borders of the European Union. The words ‘if committed with criminally acquired cash’ are excluded, with a precise cash threshold. Well, that's a big amount... if, in the event of crossing the external border, this money has not been declared or has been falsely declared... Large amounts are precisely defined. At present it is 21 500 euros, or 50 minimum monthly salaries. Amendments to criminal law provide for criminal liability for non-declaration or false declaration of large amounts of cash when crossing the internal border of the European Union, if the declaration of such money has been requested by an official of the competent authority in accordance with the procedure laid down by law. This norm coincides with the procedure provided for in Draft Law No. 101/Lp13 - ‘Amendments to the law on the declaration of cash at the national border’. Before examining the draft law at third reading, a number of proposals have been submitted, including a procedure for declaring cash at national borders. We will, of course, also follow the course of this draft law. Here I want to make it clear that, with regard to the internal borders of the European Union, a person who has more money will not need or need to look for a border or a place where money is declared. This will only need to be done if the official of the institution concerned asks for an amount of money to be declared. Only at the request of the official. Not automatically, as happens at the external border. I would like to emphasise that these amendments to the Criminal Law are another important step towards an orderly financial environment in Latvia, making our country less attractive to international fraudsters. The draft law is prepared to ensure compliance of Latvian regulatory enactments with Moneyval recommendations. In view of the expected evaluation period, this should be seen as an urgent task. It can also be mentioned as one of the most important reasons to put Latvia's legal environment right as soon as possible, ensuring its compliance with the requirements set in the European Union, applying effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions for criminal offences in the declaration of cash when crossing the state border. Dear colleagues, At its meeting, the Legal Commission examined the draft law and asked for it to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U195	Do Members want to talk about urgency? Which one? ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) I do not want to talk about urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on "Amendments to the Criminal Law". Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 44, for - 24, for - 3. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U196	On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U197	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U198	How many minutes I have... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U199	Do Members have... Is that so? 15! The time for the debate on the draft law at first reading is 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U200	I have read one interview, where there was a very precise message related to the limitation of cash that is being determined in Latvia, and that if there is a suspicion of the use of cash, there will be confiscation... As I read today... The State Revenue Service will carry out raids on roads, on roads to search for criminals and take away money. Then I just want to give you one comparative example. The sad time of Stalin in the famous Article 58 of the Penal Code... was about spying. This spying article was supplemented by “crime” such as a suspicion of spying, then supplemented by “crime” such as unproven spying, and then supplemented with... such an article as... communications that give rise to suspicion of spying. For all these terrible "crimes" - for suspicion! - People in Stalin's time were sent to Siberia. And the penalties... What do I mean by that? The penalties imposed on the grounds of suspicion are a classic feature of a totalitarian state. What is currently happening with the issue of restricting cash is a classic direction and a path towards a totalitarian state. The second thing that appears in our discussions from a legal point of view, which is completely absurd, is the external borders of the European Union and the internal borders of the countries. I would like to remind the Houses that we joined the European Union by adopting the rules of the European Union's game, one of the fundamental principles of free movement of capital. Free movement of capital means free movement of money within the European Union. Such a movement also means that, when we joined the European Union, we agreed that we would not have customs at the internal borders of the countries of the European Union, that customs would only be at the external border. Now we want to come up with some very interesting solution that runs counter to the free movement of capital - that we will have specific internal customs borders within the European Union for the transport of cash. I want to emphasise one thing. Cash is not more dangerous than drugs. If we read the Labour Law carefully... The Labour Law states that remuneration in non-cash form can be received only with the consent of the employee. So the basic means of payment (even the law has set it!) is cash. Cash is a legal means of payment, not an illegal means of payment. Legal it is in any Member State of the European Union. There is no Member State of the European Union which has a special internal customs duty to fight cash... which, as the State Revenue Service promises, drive on the roads to catch criminals who have cash in their purse. It is a legal absurdity that leads towards a totalitarian state. I have a silent and, in fact, loud suspicion that this excessive battle is not required... In fact, Moneyval does not require such a case. Furthermore, Moneyval, if we look from a legal point of view, is not a public body. It is not any institution of the European Union; it is... They are also not mandatory laws that should be enforced. They do not call for such restrictions! I have a strong suspicion that this so-called fight against money laundering is actually a secret... such a cover that it's impossible to find a coalition... Obviously it is not possible to find ideas for the new Unity to combat illegal... crime... the movement of illicit money. If we look at statistics and legal practices, we see that this absurd, these cash restrictions, do not reduce the existence of the shadow economy and do not contribute to the fight against money laundering. Yeah, where is 95 percent of the money being washed? Money laundering occurs in 95 per cent of cases through bank accounts, washing in VAT schemes. Not by transporting cash. So the parliament should not restrict the free movement of capital and go to a totalitarian state, where it carries out raids on roads, as the relevant institutions are already promising in the press, but find a way to limit money laundering... the way in which VAT carousel schemes are limited, implemented in the form of transfers in 95 per cent of cases. I can explain to those who do not know how such VAT schemes are being implemented. This is as follows: transfers are made from bank No. 1 on Bank No 2 and then to Bank No. 3 and thereafter to the bank No. 4 and so on. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Judins: “And then take out the cash!” ) Mr Judine, I would particularly like to draw attention to you in your direction. You have submitted so much to the Commission on Criminal Law Policy (Interpretative statement: "Evilness!" (Laughter) the proposal, which has been poorly prepared and which has also been openly discussed by the Legal Commission as being very poorly prepared! I want to explain to you that there is already a system in Latvia - there is already a system in Latvia! - that it is impossible, objectively impossible, from bank accounts... as a result of such VAT carousel... withdraw large amounts of cash. This is simply not objectively possible, neither legally nor otherwise. One more thing that must be said in the same respect. And now let's imagine the practical situation! A German citizen has no restrictions on the transportation and spending of cash within the European Union. This German citizen legally moves from Germany to Latvia with cash, and in Latvia he is detained by an employee of the Customs Administration of the State Revenue Service and says: “You have no documents about the origin of this money!” In the European Union, firstly, there is no rule that a citizen of the European Union should not carry such money. Secondly, a citizen of the European Union has no obligation to carry documents on every achievement... every cent or every euro he carries... who show how this cent or the euro has been created. As a result, with the slogan “We will fight illegal money!” We do not actually fight at least 95 percent of illegal, so-called washed money into the economy. We're fighting people who... Yes, maybe one of them has, I do not know, a couple of thousands of euros spent on own consumption. The task of the state in this situation... and it is a national problem that it is obviously possible to implement large smuggling schemes, large money laundering schemes in Latvia. We are fighting with small restaurants, not the big taxpayers, we are fighting with small ones, who, in fact, even if they are in the grey economy area, are spending these funds on their own consumption without asking the country to go against them. The country does not have to solve this problem; it does not have to solve this problem, so that the grey economy does not grow, becomes larger, or passes through large VAT schemes. They must be combated, they must be heavily smuggled, the big restaurants - tax-unpayers, not small ones. We need to fight this way. And the last one. Once again, the free movement of capital prohibits special customs improvements (as there are no countries!) at internal borders. When we move from Latvia to Lithuania, we have renounced such customs services that it checks how much we have money. This is at odds with the rules by which we join the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U201	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U202	Dear colleagues, A man named Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš has come up with a plan to repair the capital in the house called “Financial System”. However, instead of fixing the huts or building a broken wall, he has thought that he would simply pick up a sandwich in the house. This is exactly what Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš wants to repair the financial system. He's found the biggest cheats, people who have cash. A little thought about it. I understand that our officials, including those who have declared cash savings, with one leg are criminals, because cash will soon become... crime. If we are talking about what Mrs Strike said in an introductory speech, in the annotation of this draft law, it is not, in my opinion, a straightening of the legal environment, but it is a distortion of the legal environment. With this bill, our country is not made less attractive to cheats, but simply less attractive. Point! Because this draft law provides for criminal penalties even if money proves to be absolutely legal. Just for the very fact that a person has not declared money somewhere in Lithuania on the stake or on the first next dog... In that version, the draft law was submitted to the Legal Commission. That's the way it works! If we are talking about the range of experts who are, I do not know how many months have worked on this idea, and about the fact that it has been evaluated and re-evaluated, then I can say that it was really a great miracle for me to read what Mr Kariņš' experts offered to the Legal Commission and its sub-committee. At first, the wording of this bill was very strange: the fact that a person has not declared on the internal border is already under threat of punishment. And when we became interested in how we as a country can ensure that any person can declare this amount at any time of the day on the Latvian-Lithuanian border, then... The answer could not have been prepared, because there was probably another need. And this addition, thanks to the joint work, we got. But I also draw your attention to the fact that this penalty remained unchanged. At the moment, there is a situation where the non-declaration of legal money, for example, on the Latvian-Lithuanian border... At the request of the official... a person can receive almost the same penalty as for avoiding the declaration or for money laundering. Think about it! Think of the fact that, in principle, we are currently distorting our system simply because someone has recommended something to us again! We did not see exactly what Moneyval's requirements are. These requirements were not imposed on this draft law. A specific article in the original language. We don't know what we're based on. I call on you not to support this madness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U203	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U204	Dear President, Honourable Members! Of course, there is a need for harmonisation. If, within the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, we are working on the law on the declaration of cash, then there must also be something to say, a correction of how those who are not declared will then be punished. But here's the end, I'll tell you, not exactly in the butter, but... will have to work very hard on the next reading. Let me explain why. First of all, these laws need to be harmonised. We haven't yet accepted this in the commission... How, then, will we declare? And now, some principles that would seem to have been ignored here. Dear Members, Keeping cash is not a crime. That's the first. Second. All the commissions working on it should understand: cash does not cause corruption. Here it has been said that 90 percent of the shadow economy in Latvia is caused by VAT carousel schemes, and all this happens only with transfers through banks. Third. It's a postulate of human freedom. Cash and cash transactions are part of the freedoms that underpin a democratic society. That is why we are joining the European Union: so that our country does not become a political state and that we can exercise our freedoms. Four. Estonia, Finland, Sweden - our neighbours who are coming here and we are going there. There's no need for us to declare anything. Spain, for its part, requests a declaration if there are more than 100 thousand. Starting at 100,000. And Germany - by random... For example, oral declarations may also be made. I have submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission a proposal that can be written from 100 000 onwards, but if there is a smaller amount, then orally. And why? I'll explain it right away. One thing is that this proposal is not consistent with what the Finance Minister has tabled. There is a significant difference between what we are now looking at and the proposal from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. The proposal submitted by the Minister of Finance provides for a very significant difference that a natural person who imports and exports cash before exporting cash or entering the Republic of Latvia at the request of an official of the competent authority only fill in such declarations in one case – if there is an indication of possible unlawful activities of the natural person. If there is no sign, that person shall not fill in anything. Not in writing, not in... But the question is, what amounts. That's what it says about big sums of money. Well, in the commission, we have not yet finally voted to the end, whether there will be a huge amount of money of 10,000 or 100,000. Why 100,000? I'll tell you right now. If we legally write that 10,000, then... Imagine... go, say, husband, wife and two children or two classmates and each one of them will marry 9099. Second. If he can't get... Well, let's say, a bad guy and a cash carrier will want to take 40 or 50 thousand, he'll get some cash 9999. And then the question is, how many credit cards can a free citizen in a free country? He might have three or four more credit cards and, let's say, nine thousand more? Will we also adopt a law on credit cards, a maximum amount on credit cards, a list of banks that can issue credit cards? Because everyone can go on the Internet... You can order a credit card in the UK, London, still in the European Union, send it by post, and put it there at least 100,000. So what are we gonna do? We have customs, let's say, to Estonia, a couple of hundreds of different ways... But... OK, it doesn't matter. If anyone wants to move, they'll transfer. But about 100,000, I'll tell you why. This amounts to the sale of private property. I saw that several thousands of people in Latvia already had properties in Spain. It may be summerhouses, it may be some summer cottages. Also in Scandinavian countries, property, such as summer cottages, has been bought somewhere on the islands. It is logical that these properties are bought and sold. And then the question is, if a man sells such property, he must... For example, he wants his son... whether the son wants to give to his brother or mother or someone... he should do so by means of a bank? Because both in Germany and Finland, you can do it in cash. In addition, we have already talked about this in previous laws... that if you, for example, buy boats or cars in Finland, just like in Germany... there the advantage is for cash rather than for any kind of transfer. Therefore, two things should really be considered and remembered for the next reading. Latvia will not be a political state. We joined the European Union, not to make it easier for SRS officials to work and become a more political country. These laws must be harmonised. We can't go ahead. Now we have voted for urgency. In Commission A, we withdrew today because the Ministry of Finance wanted to withdraw this law on the declaration of money by crossing the border of Latvia. So let's make that law and then bring it into line with it. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U205	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U206	Good afternoon! In agreement with what Mr Kirštein just said, however, I would like to add a few more things to show the absurdity of this idea. I think... When we read about it and listen to it, the word of honor comes from the feeling that not only have we not noticed that we are in the European Union, but... I have the feeling that we have not noticed that we are no longer in the Soviet Union. Just a few things. Crossing internal borders. I am sorry, it is one of the fundamental values that led us to join the European Union: the free movement of capital and people within the European Union. Whatever the type. That's one thing. Let us now imagine a completely concrete situation. A businessman (and so many, I also know some) who is doing business at the same time in Valga, one company that has placed shops and so on, actually crosses the border 25 times a day. What will they have to do? At what particular request? Thus, it will not be possible to formally transfer absolutely legal cash anymore. That is one thing: this absurdity. The other thing. For the very fact that upon request. I have a question: what is the moment when that request will be? And what about travel? If one of the institutions wants to check the origin of money, it is quite no matter if that person is in Latvia or Estonia. Will the demand come before he travels to Estonia or when he is already in Estonia? How and in what way will the laws concerning him work? Or when buying in Poland, where cash transactions are allowed as in any other normal country, where an important moment is why, let's say... which is not mentioned at all... And where this is going to be much different from what, let's say, Germany... Because where else are national currencies... where conversion is still required, cash transactions will be much more pronounced than in the euro area. We are not talking about this at all. And at what point will any laws apply to this man? If he receives a request in Poland, then Polish laws or Latvian laws will work on him? And what has to do with where he is inside the European Union with this money? What's the difference? What does travel have to do with this? It's right... Yes, it is necessary to show, prove the origin of the money, the legality of the money, of course, but it has nothing to do with travelling, I am sorry.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U207	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U208	Dear colleagues, We discussed a lot about this draft law, about the proposed amendments. A number of people who debated today also took part in the sitting of the Legal Commission and asked questions, answered them, but today they continue to ask the same questions. It's hard for me to say if they don't understand what they're telling them, if they don't want to hear, but I'll try to repeat some things. The first is the happy news for all those who like to cross the border, holding the suitcase in their hands with money. That is, the good news is that it will not be banned. If you like, you can take 100 thousand or millions. Please do it! Because there is no responsibility for moving money across borders. Read the bill, Mr. Gobzem. Responsibility is intended to provide false information when you - you or someone else - are asked: “Do you have cash?” If a person answers, “No, I have nothing!” But in fact, he's gonna have more than 20 thousand... at least EUR 21 500 or more, then he will be held accountable. And even if he says, “No, I have only 15 thousand!” But actually he'll be 50,000. Then, too, there will be a responsibility. You can't lie! You can't! Especially if there is a large amount of money in the suitcase. So there is the question: what is the point of this rule at all? It's very simple! If you have money... If you like cash instead of cards, then you don't have a problem to answer where you got that money. And you will say, “I make profits there and there, I got an inheritance, and I like to move money... take it with you.’ And then you won't have any problems. However, I feel that some Members may live in another world. I always listened to Mr Gobzem and waited for him to repeat the example he had given at the Legal Commission. An example was the fact that people in Europe are walking in cash and that this is normal practice. The Latvians simply do not understand. That is, the example was: well, it's normal if a person enters a store where he sells his bags for seven thousand, and buys one. Yeah, well, that's exactly what somebody's going to Poland, he's taking money for four bags, and then it's like he's asked... But if it's cash, where is the problem? ‘ Yeah, I'm 30,000, and I want to pay... or spend... “ There are no problems. The question arises: why is there such a worry? (Applause) Why such fear? From what? As for the relevant provision, how will we apply it? What is it supposed to... Is that so? How do we see that? No one... Let us not say that there will be customs controls that will check everyone. A person does not have to go to customs to say: “I will travel to Poland or Lithuania. Please allow me to declare something.’ That's not gonna happen. But if a person enters Latvia or is on the border and plans to leave Latvia, for example, to Lithuania or Estonia, then the competent institution, namely SRS employees, customs authorities, can ask him a question, and if he will give an honest answer (interface.) , he's going further, there's no problem. That's how it works. And where is the risk? There's no risk. I don't understand why there's such fear. For other countries. As far as I remember, it was Mr Gobzems who asked the mint of Justice... no, at first he claimed that there was no such practice, Latvia invented something. And how did the Ministry of Justice answer? For a very long time, he was reading, in which countries there are such arrangements. We are not original in this story! I didn't take that list with you to read you, but please, you... You are a member of the Legal Commission, you can read the minutes, listen to the audio... Well, it's meant... Colleagues! I think honest people don't have to worry. That will really help us to combat organised crime, money laundering. Mr Gobzem began to tell you exactly about VAT carousel, but he only told you about part of it, its schemes are much more complicated. ( FROM a faction: “How do you know? ” ) And we all understand... Because I'm an expert dealing with the relevant things. ( Internouncing call.) Yeah, right! And writing books about it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “If you were an expert... “ But the question... But if we are talking specifically about the schemes in question - there are, of course, such schemes, but we have to understand: money laundering is going to be good for a particular person, not for a legal person to benefit from it. Very often we see that these schemes end with cash being received by a person. Colleagues! I am asking for support for these proposals. Of course, Mr Kirstein is right that it is important that these laws are joined up. But as far as I can see, we took this point out of the agenda today and we will finish it next week. The proposals have already been supported. I very much hope that we will be able to make effective use of the relevant rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U209	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U210	Mr. Judin, thank God that you were not elected to the Supreme Court judge at that time! ( Internouncing call.) Yeah... I will explain to you: in a democratic society, there are some... Human rights, fundamental human rights, must not be offended. In exceptional cases they may be violated only by a special sanction of the Supreme Court. The free movement of people, and therefore the movement of their capital, is one of these human rights - just like the free communication that you can speak on the phone. To compare, if you speak by phone and someone wants to listen to you, then you should only be able to listen to it for a short time on the basis of serious suspicions and only with the sanction of the Supreme Court. Not... What you're offering is that an official is going on his way now: this is what we're going to hold back, let's check it out, let's check it out... This is not the case in a democratic society! It happens to the Czechs - totalitarian regime - that goes on the street to someone and holds hold back. In order for any person to be detained at all in a democratic society, there must initially be a very serious legal basis and evidence base. ( Internouncing call.) And if we compare it to a foreign one, then... For example, in the same Germany... in a situation where there has been unjustified detention or unjustified hearings, or hearings for longer periods (and not as we have with us - are listening to people for years, and all of them), the authorities then declare this, apologies and still pay compensations, that they have violated these fundamental rights. What you offer in your regularly low-quality bill... I wonder how you're allowed to be a sub-commission manager... what you are offering - you are offering anti-democratic solutions that are contrary to the Treaty and to the treaties on which we join the European Union. This goes against fundamental human rights and fundamental values. There is no Member State of the European Union in which you can just get to a person on the street and shake out... What's in his wallet... without serious suspicions having legal basis. You can't be sure we figure out: there's a cop, I'm sorry about vulgarity, so let's check this driver -- maybe he's got cash in the cops. This is not the case in a democratic society! Mr. Judine, you are older than me and you are probably still living in those Soviet times. Start living in 21st century free Latvia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U211	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U212	Dear colleagues, I listened to the appearance of some legal choirs here and wondered about the time that some live in some little corner of reality. Maybe you don't see that whole big picture. This is not just about these... on the Criminal Law. There are also amendments to the law on the declaration of cash at the national border. It's a picture in general as follows: Okay, there's one... Big sums of money - over 10 thousand. If you don't declare this money or have given false information (I'll be right back to the question of false information), then deprivation of liberty to... how much is there?... three years. But there's another bill going through the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission... It says, in substance, that the responsible services can ask anyone to fill in a declaration for any sums of money, including under 10 000. It's not about who leads the suitcases. Anybody! For your relative or friend, a taxman can without special justification... just because when he got up in the morning, he got out of bed with the wrong leg, he got stuck... may ask, “Do you have money?” - “Yes, €10 is.” - “Complete the declaration!” Such opportunities are granted to all of them, so to say, with the implementation of Moneyval as if recommendations. Moneyval, I think it doesn't even need it. Go on. That's not true. Have you ever seen that declaration, Mr. Judin? Oh, I... I can't talk to the grass, I'm sorry! That declaration contains, for example, questions such as: "Who is the recipient of the cash? What is the purpose of this cash?’ Let's imagine, let's say, you or your friend or relative... you go to Lithuania or Estonia or... I don't know... You travel to Spain with some cash. That's not more than 10,000. Any cash. You can exactly answer how you intend to spend this cash and who is exactly the recipient of this cash? If not, then you... It is very likely that you will give false information about which, if this cash is not large, you can deduct 20 percent of this cash. Forgive me, a nightmare, is driven through the Saeima. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Feldman and Depp. S. Riekstins.) I don't know... I can tell you, think about it. But, I know, at least for part, this is a rather pointless call. It's not what... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U213	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U214	Mr. Judah! I'm talking about the honesty you preach here from the pub and about double standards... Just a moment ago, we saw you find a pretty way to get around the law. At the time we decided to set up the OIC's parliamentary committee of inquiry, you ran and found out that Valainis had been somewhere in the Parliamentary Secretary... Then - also Zarins has been somewhere... It does not matter what is written in Section 4(2) of the Law... on persons in conflict of interest (Dep. A. Neighbours: “On the proposal!” However, it should not be there. Damn it! Right? To that... Then the law is not... You come here and talk about honesty, about the law. Start following the laws that have already been adopted, and then talk about new ones.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U215	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U216	Dear Mr. Judin! I'm not left with the belief that hell probably has a special place for such lawyers. Such lawyers who may have also participated in supporting the idea of collectiveisation or... I understand, of course, it was fantastic... Sharikov's times... Bulgakov... But let's imagine, in Sharicow's time... When people came to Professor Preobražska and said that he had too many apartments, probably the legal basis for them was also from a lawyer who said: “Well, we answered all your questions. You are simply useless, continue to ask them, but the law is already good.” I do not think these rules can be translated. And if we talk about the common idea, this idea to punish everyone and do indeed the production of different laws after production, then I think that in fact, criminals, all those who you want to fight, must catch, not expose all societies to risks that you cannot prevent, because your consolations here, from the tribunal, will not be able to help someone who is falsely accused but will strengthen the quality of the work of the law enforcement authorities. And it is much more complicated than writing one sentence and voting on it in two readings, Mr. Judine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U217	The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U218	I did not say one very important thing in this regard. That is, maybe you should talk to Latvian businessmen who are exporting and doing business not only in Latvia, but also in the European Union, and you will understand the problem and the situation in which we will put them now against everyone else who does not have such a system. But there is another important thing. I think if someone has talked to businessmen in Latvia, then you know that there is one current problem - not only can banks, but they can do it now - clap accounts without any specific justification. Maybe there was a deal with... just because you've had a deal with Uzbekistan and someone thinks there's something wrong there, even though you might've sold cookies there... Squeeze... We're... In fact, banking policy in Latvia is currently one that inevitably forces money to increase. ‘ Citadele’ is still the one to which other banks send when you close an account. Well, you can still open up there. We are now in such an environment that in fact... By putting this molotov cocktail together, we see the situation that anyone in this country is de facto right away... Continuously, permanences will be guilty. It's such a classic intimidation that anyone is guilty. Any one can now be taken to the street, if he approaches a border. Clearly, this is actually a intimidation of society. Then those people... and that is why we have the shadow economy and everything else. Think about it, huh? We now have the conditions that, without cash operations, even if you would very much like not to do so, it is impossible to do business. If you do not know, talk to businessmen, please! This is now a well-known fact.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U219	The name of Member Juta Stricky.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U220	Mr. Judine already told us exactly everything. Once again, what is this bill? It does not impose any restrictions on the transport of cash. This bill is about criminalising if a person is hiding or lying... To make it even more understandable, I'll mark a situation in one criminal case... let us call it the case of Magonis, former manager of “Latvian Railways”: according to the current case materials, half a million were taken in Estonia, put in the car and taken to Latvia. Do you think, if you ask him, “Do you have anything to declare?” “Yes, I have half a million, and it’s a bribe!” No way! He will certainly prove that he has nothing. If there is not enough material for the investigation, the evidence gathered both in Estonia and in Latvia that it is a bribe, then we can do nothing. Why is there such a worry? Apparently, many gentlemen and ladies speaking here in the cull are worried about people who regularly talk about half a million and 100 thousand. — Insight: “Collect evidence, not arrest!” ) is hidden from the competent authorities. That's what it's about. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Schmidt: “Let’s arrest and then get the evidence!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U221	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U222	Mrs. Strique! Did I understand correctly that this law was written in the case of Mr. Magon? (Applause) ( Subtitle: “Are you serious? ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U223	I closed the debate. After the debate, are there anything else to be added or explained on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U224	Yeah. I would like to remind you that we looked very carefully at the draft legislation presented, so that it would be even clearer. Because the Legal Commission did not support the imposition of administrative penalties without indicating a threshold or a certain amount. Therefore, on behalf of the Legal Commission, I ask that this draft law be supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U225	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on criminal law. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U226	The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 June this year. The second reading request was on 20 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U227	13, huh?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U228	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ... We had it...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U229	June 30 and Sunday. 20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U230	20! To be examined at second reading on 20 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U231	Thank you. Deadline for the submission of proposals - 10 June this year, consideration of the Saeima sitting - this year's... Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 10 June this year, consideration by the Saeima at its meeting on 20 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U232	Yeah, thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U233	Thank you. On the agenda - Draft Law on the Market in Financial Instruments Act, second reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U234	Dear President, Honourable Members! 13 proposals have been submitted to this draft law. The proposal, which is such a grammatical proposal from the Legal Office, has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U235	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U236	The proposal is also supported. It has been presented by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. ( I will say, commission).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U237	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U238	3. - Commission proposal. This is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U239	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U240	Proposal 4 has also been submitted by the Commission. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U241	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U242	5. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau. Proposal No 6 has been supported and included.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U243	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U244	6. - Commission proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U245	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U246	Proposal 7, which is important. It shall be in return for the remuneration of the Board and the Board and shall be submitted by the Commission. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U247	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U248	8 / 8 - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U249	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U250	9. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U251	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U252	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U253	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U254	11. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U255	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U256	12. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U257	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U258	13. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U259	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U260	I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U261	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U262	11 June
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U263	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 11 June this year. Draft law “Amendments to law on private pension funds”, second reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U264	Eight proposals have been made. The first four proposals tabled by Members Kirštein, Indrickson, Eglitis and Feldman are not supported by the Commission because a new draft law has been tabled, which we will adopt in November. The new draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers is due to the need to introduce new requirements for directives. Consequently, Proposals 1, 2, 3 and 4... they will be submitted... incorporated into the new draft law for second reading. Here, they cannot be put to the vote. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U265	No, it's not that there is no vote. We will go through every proposal. Proposal 1 submitted by...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U266	The Commission does not support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U267	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U268	The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U269	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U270	3. - The Commission is not in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U271	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U272	4. - don't support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U273	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U274	Proposal 5 has been submitted by the Commission. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U275	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U276	Proposal 6 has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U277	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U278	7. - Commission proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U279	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U280	And 8. - a proposal from the above-mentioned Members. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U281	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U282	I call for the vote to be taken in general and for support to be given.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U283	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the law on private pension funds” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U284	11 June
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U285	The deadline for submitting proposals is 11 June this year. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers’, second reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U286	The proposal presented by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has been welcomed.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U287	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U288	2. is a proposal from the Commission. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U289	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U290	3. There is a proposal from the Commission. Supported by changing numbering.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U291	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U292	Proposal 4 is supported by changing numbering.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U293	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U294	Proposal 5 is supported by changing numbering.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U295	Members would like to vote on proposal 5. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - The proposal submitted by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 51, for - no, for - 18. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U296	Proposal 6 is supported by changing numbering.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U297	Are Members willing to vote? Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - the commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 53, for - no, for - 18. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U298	7. - Commission proposal. Supported without changing numbering. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U299	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - the committee's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 50, for - no, for - 17. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U300	8 / 8 - Commission proposal. It's supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U301	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - the committee's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 53, for - no, for - 18. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U302	9. - Commission proposal. It's supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U303	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - the committee's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 52, for - no, for - 17. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U304	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Commission proposal. The numbering of articles has been supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U305	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - the committee's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 53, for - no, for - 18. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U306	11. - Commission proposal. Supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U307	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - the committee's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 53, for - no, for - 18. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U308	12. - Commission proposal. It's supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U309	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - the committee's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 55, for - no, for - 18. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U310	I call for support for proposals to be submitted for the third reading by 11 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U311	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 51, for - no, for - 17. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U312	11 June
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U313	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 11 June this year. Draft Act ‘Amendment to the Law on Audit Services’, second reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U314	Honourable Members! I am forced to make you sad, no proposals have been made. I call for support at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U315	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on audit services! Please vote mode! Please get the result! To - 66, to - no, to - 1. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U316	11 June
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U317	The deadline for submitting proposals is 11 June this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Investment Management Companies”, second reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U318	One proposal has been tabled. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has supported this proposal. I invite you to support it!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U319	Members support the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U320	I call for support for the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U321	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Investment Management Companies”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U322	11 June
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U323	The deadline for submitting proposals is 11 June this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Insurance and Reinsurance Act”, second reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U324	Six proposals have been made. All supported. The proposal is made by Minister for Finance Reirs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U325	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U326	The proposal has also been submitted by the Minister for Finance. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U327	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U328	3. The proposal has been submitted by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U329	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U330	4. - Commission proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U331	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U332	5. - Commission proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U333	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U334	6. - a proposal from the Minister of Finance. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U335	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U336	I call for support in general.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U337	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Insurance and Reinsurance Act” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one to - 67, against and refrain from - 67. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U338	11 June
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U339	The deadline for submitting proposals is 11 June this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U340	The draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” has been reviewed by the Legal Commission and in fact a small explanation has to be provided here. The Legal Commission discussed not only the draft law that is currently being directed in the order of urgency for the first reading; in the Legal Commission the discussion was about a much broader range of issues that were submitted from the Sub-Commission on Criminal Law Policy and on which the Legal Commission had very hot discussions over several days. Another time - about the poor quality of the bill... Members shared their views, and as a result, with five votes in favour, four are asked to direct the first reading under the urgency procedure in three articles of the law. In particular, the first amendment - to replace the words of the first paragraph of Article 26 and the second paragraph of Article 165.4 with those of the other Articles... This is in theory a technical amendment. Let me explain. Article 26 - this is the article which regulates the fine. Article 1654 is an article on non-reporting of unusual and suspicious transactions. Articles 1662 and 1662 are an article on commercial activities without registration or special authorisation. In fact, the purpose of these amendments... Amendment 2 provides for a change in Article 166.2 and, thirdly, in Article 190.15... is linked to an increase in fines. Amendment 2 provides for an increase of the fine from 700 to 1500 in the case of non-reporting... i.e. for commercial activities without registration or special authorisation. And Article 190.15 is again, once again, about avoiding the declaration of cash. There is a request to replace the words “State border of the Republic of Latvia” with the words “external border of the country”. The Commission has requested that these amendments be declared urgent. As I said, there was also a debate on this. There was a debate on the promotion of these amendments. The justification for these amendments is once again linked to the recommendations of Moneyval, although the recommendations themselves have not been included. There were no discussions in the Legal Commission about them, but, admittedly, there was no discussion about them. The main discussion at the Legal Commission before the draft law was about poor quality preparation of the draft law. Such criticisms were made by several parties. Please vote on urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U341	First of all, urgency. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 54, for - 3, for - 18. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U342	Okay. And then the Legal Commission asks the draft law to be examined at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U343	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to Latvia... “ You wanted to debate? ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U344	Okay, well, inability, inability. That's it.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U345	First reading... Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U346	The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U347	And consideration of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U348	Next, huh? ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U349	13.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U350	On the 13th day. ( Internouncing call.) I'm sorry... ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U351	So 20.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U352	Yeah, 20. I'm sorry, 20.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U353	The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 June this year. Review at the Saeima sitting on 20 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U354	20 June. Yeah, I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U355	Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U356	Good afternoon, colleagues! See Draft Law Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media (No. 339/Lp13) at first reading. The amendments are necessary in the light of ongoing discussions in the public space on the legislation applicable to the selection of members of the public media board and their interpretation. In order to ensure public confidence in future competitions for the selection of the public media board, it is necessary to amend the Law on Electronic Media (hereinafter referred to as EPLL), specifying the requirements and selection procedure for members of the public media board. It is also necessary to clarify the criteria and procedure for the withdrawal of the public media board, thus ensuring that the withdrawal is based on arguments. The Commission requests that the draft law be declared urgent. ( The paragraphs are: “Repeat! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U357	That's enough for once! Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 53, for - 4, for - 16. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U358	The Commission is asking to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U359	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 51, for - 4, for - 16. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U360	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is five days - 11 June. Second reading of the draft law - 20 June 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U361	20 June
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U362	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U363	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 11 June this year. Review at the Saeima sitting on 20 June this year. Examination of draft decisions Draft decision “On extension of the deadline for submission of proposals” (No. (143/Lp13) for the second reading until 25 June 2019.’ Please call me! We will vote on draft decision on extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the draft law on amendments to the law on assistance in the resolution of apartment issues (No. 143/Lp13) for the second reading until 25 June 2019.’ Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 73, for - no, for - 1. Decision adopted. Draft decision on extension of the deadline for submission of proposals in the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of Public Officials” (No. ( 156/Lp13) for second reading until 1 July 2019.’ Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the draft law on amendments to the law on the prevention of conflict of interest in the activities of public officials (No. 156/Lp13) for the second reading until 1 July 2019.’ Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. Decision adopted. Draft decision on extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Goods Organisations” (No. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the Law “Amendments to the Law on Public Goods Organisations” (No. 198/Lp13) for the second reading until 1 July 2019.’ Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision on consent to prosecution against 13. Saeima Member Ati Zakaitistovu’. On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - Member Janīna Kursīte-Pakule.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U364	Dear colleagues, On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 17 and point 2 of the first paragraph of Article 179 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications at its meetings on 15 May and 5 June of this year examined an application from the Prosecutor General’s Office for its consent to the opening of criminal proceedings. 13 Member of the Saeima Atti Zakaitistov who has been accused in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 177 of the Criminal Law on fraud. After hearing the representative of the Office of the Prosecutor General, the members of the Commission, following discussions, voting in favour of nine and four against, supported the draft decision prepared by the Commission for Mandate, Ethics and Application “On consent to the opening of criminal prosecution against 13. Saeima Member Ati Zakaitistovu’. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft decision being drawn up.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U365	Let us start a debate. The name to the Member is Att Zakaitistov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U366	Good to see you! Can I unite both times?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U367	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U368	I... It's not too tasteful to talk about yourself. I've been thinking about it for a long time or not, but... I will, however, climb here in the troupe, and I will call you to vote against. And I'll explain why, too. When it comes to consenting to criminal prosecution against a Member, it seems that the situation is very simple: there is a citizen who is in dispute, there is a victim, the prosecutor's office is indicting, and the whole matter is going to court. And if everything was so simple, I would agree and say, “Yes, it’s really simple!” But this measure, unfortunately, also has consequences. They arise from the relevant point of the Order Roll, and that point of the Order Roll is in fact currently being examined by the Constitutional Court, and it threatens... constitutes a threat to democratic processes. And I will tell you how democratic processes are threatened with this. I'm happy to... Well, I think that way of telling must be so simple that people understand it. And I thought... And it's from my childhood when I'm talking... that there is a wise person who does not want the other to be evil, who does not owe the other, who does not want the good, but is able to understand the situation. And if such a person is not aggressive and disagrees, he will often say, “I don’t know, I don’t know.” For example, I would try to tell such a person the situation. I would say: “This is a big company. In a large company, two leading persons - the Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of the Board - argued with each other.” And that man would answer: “Ordinary things, normal.” And then he... I would tell him: “Well, one sees the development of the company in one direction, and at the end of it there is a prize - about 700 million. The second, in this case, the chairman of the board, says: no, I do not see the development of the company in this way.” Then there is the moment when the chairman of the board recruits a consultant to think about how the industry will develop, what another strategy for company development might be. And a person from the side would say, “Well you can understand.” Events continue to evolve, and at one point the Chairman of the Board understands that there is a Chair of the Board between him and 700 million. Then different tools are used to try to make the interferences removed. One of the tools that can be used in Latvia is the initiation of criminal proceedings. Something is being built in the field about three years old things and criminal proceedings are being initiated. If he asked a person from the edge, who is good for the businessmen, he would say: “I don’t know, I don’t know. Both are good. Both fight for money.’ And if that man were to ask, "Well yes, but that consultant, he's like a hostage, he's killed with him there." That man would say, “Oh, I don’t know. I don't stand there with a candle, maybe there's something there." But then that story goes on. And that story goes further, there are also voters - 120,000 people who have voted for a particular party. And then ( FROM the fraction: “Lower! Less to the European Parliament elections!’ ) is the question whether they are guilty, because they are also entered into this bitch. If we think about voters... Every four years the voter can speak. The voter can say in simple language: “I don’t like what’s going on.” He listens to various politicians and says: “Well, this politician tells me something that I like and care about. Let them go and work!” Some like... not work, but this one is not allowed to work. And then I ask: in this bitch, who began between two entrepreneurs, what is the point of the voters? Voters in this case are hostages. And they're hostages in connection with a certain Rule of Conduct article. There is no problem with the citizen coming before the court. There is a problem with the fact that the Rules of Procedure are intended: an elected Member cannot work. The Constitutional Court will return to this issue. In my opinion, the Constitutional Court will tell about the same thing: the democratic process is threatened, voters are held hostage without any fault, without any evil intention. In this case, they are entered into a foreign war. Now I appeal to you and say: vote 'no' - not for me (Interior: Ooo!) ), but because of the voters who have become hostages because of the Order reel! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U369	The name of Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U370	Hello! Yes, the decision of Parliament today is clear and correct, because we are not judges here. The rules require equal treatment. And yet. In my opinion, today's vote is not about rules, but about humanity. For humanity, which is lacking not only in Parliament, but also in our daily life. It is our duty, as Parliament, to build the system. A system in which everyone can feel confident. Especially those who do their work in good faith and fulfil their responsibilities towards the State. His attitude forms the attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U371	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U372	Dear colleagues, I took the opportunity to get acquainted with the materials that had been handed over to the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application, as well as I was sitting yesterday and listening to the audio record to understand the situation better. And I think the information that I can give you may help you make a decision. This is about the substance of the question. We are not judges (Dep. S. Riekstins: “I’ve heard this somewhere!” ) and we cannot judge the court, and we cannot say that it is guilty or not guilty. Because when I read the documents, I... I can't leave now, but one thing is clear - a long sheet with statements of evidence, but we don't see content there. Whether they prove or not, we can't know. This can only be done... the answer may be given by a court hearing the case. So, like or dislikes, we must give the prosecutor's office the opportunity to work, and only then can we expect a court ruling, a court ruling, an excuse or a conviction. But it will be a judgment! Otherwise there is a certain uncertainty. But where is the problem? It's not that simple. Yeah... earlier, I remember, it was easy for me to talk about these issues. I simply tell you that it is true: “The Court will decide everything. Let's give it, and let it happen!" But what do I see lately? It is very painful for me to see this, so there are some concerns. What is involved in extradition? A small tour in criminal proceedings. The criminal procedure has been initiated. At first, the police, KNAB investigators, work. When the investigators finish their work, they send the case to the prosecutor. The prosecutor reads and makes a conclusion - yes, there is a lot of evidence, can present an accusation, hand it over to the court. Or - there is little evidence to send the case back to the investigator to continue the investigation. What's happened lately? I remember that when we voted in favour of the extradition of Jušas (interim call.) I was asked, “It’s exactly when everything will be finished?” I said, “It will take a week, two, three, maybe a month.” And what do we now see? And what does the prosecutor's office tell us? That they analyze evidence, they collect evidence. And now I have an absolutely unclear question. If the prosecutor's office takes the case, if the prosecutor's office reports that they are preparing for the charge, this means that they have evidence. If there is evidence, why don't they refer the case to the court? Why the prosecutor's office starts to do something and... Is that so? In the Juish case, that was the case. In principle, I see something like that in the case of Rimšēvičs, the same thing. If he is a accused, hand him over to the court, and the court will be done! But the prosecutor’s office tells us: “He now provides new information, we want to test something.” I have a question: When you made an accusation, did you have or did not have evidence? And if so, why don't you let the court deal with the matter? It was also very unpleasant to hear the prosecutor's answer to the Members' questions. Because what did the Members want? The question was simple: "We will give you colleagues. But will you work on this crime?” I think the prosecutor will respond honestly: "Yes, of course, quickly." Instead, the answer was: “It’s not your business. I know how and what.” That must not be the case! Colleagues, I see that our prosecutor's office has a problem. A serious problem! However, we cannot create another prosecutor's office, which will check this prosecutor's office and control. In this particular case, we must also not interfere in the process. We have no options (Dep. S. Riekstins: “There are options! There are always options!” ) - we have to be extradited for prosecution. But I think we also have to think seriously about what to do with a prosecutor's office that works, so to speak, strangely.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U373	Dear colleagues, Members Krauze, Pavļuts, Dzintars, Kaimiņš and Latkovskis ask to continue the sitting of the Saeima without interruption until the examination of all items on the agenda. Are there any objections? ( The utterances are: ‘ Let’s vote! ’) ) There are objections. So let us vote in favour of the parliamentary sitting continuing without interruption until all items on the agenda are under consideration. Please call me! Let us vote on the continuation of the sitting without interruption until all items on the agenda have been dealt with! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 58, for - 14, for - 2. The sitting is ongoing. On behalf of the new Conservative Group, Member Juta Strike.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U374	Dear colleagues, Once again, it is time for us to decide on the possibility for the public prosecutor's office to be accused of a criminal offence by one of our fellow Members, Mr Atti Zakaistov, and to prevent him from taking part in the work of the Saeima in the future. This is not a decision as to whether or not he is guilty. This is our decision as to whether a member of the Saeima, as an elected representative of the people, can work. When we take this decision, we will have to go back on the rake that has been actively pushed under you and our feet by the prosecutor of the Kalnmeier-led Public Prosecutor's Office, Urban. I'll remind you of history. On 31 January this year, the Saeima voted in favour of the extradition of the Saeima Member Juris Jušas. Hopeful statements were made that after a week or one and a half years the Prosecutor's Office will send to court and that after a half year there will be a judgment. The case is now where it was on 31 January. More than four months have passed since issue. There are reservations that the investigation activities should have been carried out. It should be recalled that the law did not prohibit these activities even when the case was not prosecuted. This prominently describes the prosecutor’s inability to organize work (Interface: “Vot, there is true!” ) so as to enable the person to prove his or her integrity to a court as soon as possible. What shows that Zakaistov’s case will be different? Absolutely nothing! The proposal has been prepared by the same Prosecutor of the Prosecutor's Office of Kalnmeier. There are also reservations that further investigation activities will have to be carried out, having heard from the prosecutor Urbans' mouth, acknowledging that he will not transfer the case to the court so soon. He acknowledged this during the commission meeting that this would soon not be the case. It has also been heard that it is necessary to be able to send some requests, to which a rapid response is not expected, to take advantage of the current leave granted by the Prosecutor-General. Isn't that a joke about the rule of law? ( Milestones.) The above gives me confidence that this decision of the prosecutor's office is not legal but politically motivated and involves reducing the majority of coalitions using the resources of the judiciary. Who's ruining the rule of law? The rule of law is, above all, degraded by the inability of law enforcement authorities. ( Internouncing call.) This is the inability to investigate and refer the case to the court in due time. In the degradation of the rule of law, these institutions are acting as a criminal to blame what is, in fact, the alarm and the detection of crimes. The rule of law is also a devastation of the obvious failure of the prosecutor's office to distinguish a minor from important and to set priorities. My belief is that the prosecutor's office has used the mandate assigned to it irresponsiblely, thus undermining public trust in the Saeima as legislator. This is also a constitutional issue. This vote is our assessment of whether the prosecutor's office has the power to appoint an elected Member to take part in the work of the Saeima. We are now looking at the other 13th. The right of a member of the Saeima to participate in its work. ( Internouncing call.) It is a question of the number of mandates by which the people are represented in the Saeima. I have no confidence that this list will be drawn up. Just as the legislator may not interfere with the work of judicial authorities, the prosecutor's office in this case must not interfere with the work of the legislator. The prosecutor’s office has grossly violated the principle of separation of power when directing a politically motivated decision for consideration. ( FROM a fraction DECLARES: ‘ How? ’ ) It is also essential (interim.) that a case has been initiated before the Constitutional Court as to whether the Satversme meets the norm of a roll of order of the Saeima, which provides for a ban on the participation of a Member extradited for criminal prosecution in the work of the Saeima. I allow that the judgment of the Constitutional Court will be quicker than the judgment in the Jušas case in the court of first instance. This, in my opinion, also shows the situation in the judiciary institutions, especially the prosecutor's office. Thus, pending the judgment in the case of the Constitutional Court, I call for a vote against the extradition of Ata Zakatistov, a Member. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U375	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U376	Ladies and gentlemen! The presumption of innocence should, of course, operate in a legal state. And indeed, no one can be held guilty before the court decides it in its final decision. And I don't invite anyone to be blamed today either. And... But... And the other thing I'd like to say. We certainly have problems with the parliamentary roll in this context. It is clear that there should not be a situation in which a Member's rights and powers are restricted before the court decides. But we have the law that we have adopted... Well, maybe not for ourselves, but for Parliament. It passed a law in its own time... I think everyone remembers, especially in relation to today's problem, they have also studied it... Such rules on the parliamentary roll were specifically aimed - in a special case - at a special Member who was accused of buying votes at the time. That was also wrong. The law cannot be amended in one case. It was very wrong at that time, and it would be even more wrong to repeat it again and thus give the impression that we, this Saeima, are changing the law for the benefit of someone... for your good. What would I like to say with that? It was a huge mistake at that time. The parliamentary order roll should be amended. It must be amended, but the amendment must enter into force with... I think with the next Saeima, 14. The Saeima. And, unfortunately, by then it will be... Well, there's this problem, yeah. Someone will not be able to take part in the meeting room because of a mistake made by several Saeima back. That's what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U377	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U378	I would like to say a little bit about what Juta Strike said in the defence of the public prosecutor's office. There can be no such situation without compromise in the rule of law. The new conservative allows the President of the Bank of Latvia to be in criminal proceedings, and announces a message to the public that he should not speak to journalists and should appear before the court. And at that moment the prosecutor's office is good. On the other hand, when the prosecutor's office has turned against Jušas, the prosecutor's office is bad. It is not an uncompromising rule of law! It is a very classic example that, for your own, you have one argument, and for others, another one. Such a duality should end, however! Without compromise in the rule of law, everyone is equal before the law. With regard to today's case, I would just like to inform you that I will not take part in the vote and will not give my opinion on today's case for the reason that, on the one hand, I have been a lawyer of my colleague Zakatistov in one episode of this case and, on the other, I believe that the accusations that Mrs Strike has committed today (Dep. S. Riekstins: “And who is the double?” )... on behalf of self-interest... law enforcement bodies are inadmissible. Just because Jurash... that's why the accusations are there too. I agree in many respects with my colleague Digim Schmidt on the legislative problem that we have in Latvia, but... once again I say to you, Juta Strike, - no, everything does not change for and around one piece of cardboard! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U379	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission? No, no. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the consent to criminal prosecution against 13. Saeima Member Ati Zakaitistovu”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 55, it's against - 21, it's not. Decision adopted. The agenda of the sitting was examined. With regard to the questions put by Members, I must inform you that Members of Reizniece-Ozola, Valainis, Čakša, Jalinska, Kučinskis and Bergmanis have put forward a question to Members about the solution to the problem of reducing the ‘tyre mountains’ in Latvia, which we hand over to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pucem for its response. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name to the Secretary of the Saeima Andrejs Klementyev for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U380	While preparing for the printout, I would like to remind you that the first meeting of the parliamentary committee of inquiry will be held immediately in the Red Chamber. Please all those interested in this parliamentary committee and the delegated representatives in five minutes' time in the Red House. Okay. Not registered: Raimonds Bergmanis... No, Gundar Many... No, Sergey Dolgopolov... No, Aivars Geidan... No, Inga Goldberg... No, Mary Golubeva... It's not, Kaspars Girgen... No, I'm not, Inese Rectsen... No, Ilze Indricson... No, Oyars Eriks Kalniņš... No, Richard Cole... I don't see, Maris Kučinskis... I don't see, Janina Kursīte... No, Atis Lejiņš... Not in the hall, Anita Muižniece... I see, thank you, Arthur Tom Plus... No, John Wittenberg... No, John Wucan... No, Atis Zakaitistov... There's no, Reinis Znotiņš... Not applicable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-06-PT13-542-U381	I'm closing the sitting.
