ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take a seat in the Chamber so that we can begin the Saeima meeting on 23 May 2019. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. The Legal Commission is asking for the draft law “Law on the processing of personal data intended for the protection of the judiciary” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Processing of Personal Data” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Education, Culture and Science Commission is asking for the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Scientific Activities’ to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Mr. Wucaan, will you talk about it or 'no'? ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U2	Good morning, colleagues! This draft law has been led by the Commission. It appeared on the agenda of the Commission yesterday and is being led bypassing the Cabinet of Ministers... the usual order. The aim is serious enough, because standing in front of the elections to the Latvian Council of Science experts, but it turns out that both the previous Saeima and the Cabinet of Ministers change both the law and its corresponding Cabinet of Ministers... has missed something, and at present there is no clear procedure for the legal election of new Latvian Scientific Council experts. Exploring a deeper bill... I mean, the laws in force... It is obvious that two things are being discussed, namely, the Latvian Scientific Council expert commissions and the Latvian Scientific Council experts. Moreover, experts have only been talked about in the past. First of all, the law talks about expert commissions of the Latvian Council of Science, which perhaps play a key role in distributing funding when it comes to fundamental and applied research when it comes to market-oriented research. These commissions have the right to decide which scientists' collective funding will and will not be given. The order to date - what has been recorded in the law - was that these committees, as experts, could have been elected by the scientists themselves... Researchers who may have been slightly relieved of their qualification requirements with regard to those requirements which are officially granted by the Latvian Council of Science... experts. But in the Law of Scientific Activities, very little is currently written about these experts. It has been mentioned that they are necessary and that the Latvian Science Council means them in situations where doctoral programmes are being implemented and in some other situations. Why am I speaking against this draft law being passed on to the Commission? In my view, by examining this draft law and changing the procedure for creating expert commissions of the Latvian Scientific Council, several unanswered questions remain. And one of those questions is that. The rights of the Latvian Scientific Council are granted for a fixed period of time – for a maximum period of three years. But what happens if an expert is elected by the Latvian Scientific Council Expert Commission, who, let us say, loses this expert's rights after half a year? This is possible. I think that such and similar fine-tuned issues would require a detailed discussion involving the industry. And this cannot be done in accelerated order! This draft law is intended to be adopted as a matter of urgency - a maximum of two weeks - when only two readings discuss it. That is why, in my opinion, it will not achieve the desired result. In my opinion, this can be achieved by other means, let us say by posting... even the same Latvian Science Council expert committee elections are postponed for a certain period, while issues are discussed and optimal solutions are found. I therefore call for such a draft law to be passed in the usual way - through the Cabinet of Ministers, with as broad a discussion as possible. Thank you. Sitting by the driver. ‘ Anita Muižniece, a Member, has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U3	Hello, colleagues! We really had discussions in the Commission yesterday about this. However, I would like to explain why the urgency of this draft law is necessary. That is, as Mr Wuzan said, there are next elections in the summer. And without amending this law and supplementing these norms, we will simply not be able to do so. Yesterday, the Commission also pointed out that such situations had occurred in the past. This provision is about 20 years old and has been dealt with in the past by setting a temporary deadline. But as currently the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Education and Science have concluded, in the future such action... not perfect... Yes, it is the work not done by the previous government in January last year. We're correcting it right now because it's just going on because something's wrong... to do as it has been before - that is not right in my view. And to justify again why there is an urgent need to move... This is to provide at least 1200 existing experts... Continued activities of Latvian Scientific Council experts in the implementation of legal norms, as well as to ensure the issue of employment and remuneration of academic staff related to acquisition of the rights of the Latvian Scientific Council expert. The project aims to improve or clarify only the norms of the Scientific Activities Law, which are related to Latvian Scientific Council experts and members of the Latvian Scientific Council expert commissions. Given that most of the provisions of this law are the 2005 version or the basic amendment... 2005... The project intends to clarify who the expert is. Because we are now talking about the fact that there are expert commissions, but what an expert is, the law does not say. It is also planned to clarify the competence of the Latvian Scientific Council and to clarify Article 18 itself by supplementing the provisions of substantive law, as well as to lay down transitional provisions regarding the extension of the mandate of expert commissions, as this is directly related to the issue of experts. So I very much ask my colleagues to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U4	Colleagues! Let us vote in favour of putting the draft law on the agenda for today's sitting! Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Scientific Activities" on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 58, against - 28, refrains - 1. The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “On the Investment Protection Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part”, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” submitted by the Legal Commission be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education” presented by the Member Reiznieces-Ozola, Krauze, Valaiņa, Planta, Jalinska, Bergmanis, Dūklavs and Stepanenko (No. 316/Lp13) transferred to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ “A Member, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U5	Good morning, dear colleagues! There are 45 schools in Latvia (of which 18 with a music orientation) that, in addition to general education, offer some special orientation either in music, languages, mathematics, science or in some professional direction, thus allowing children to develop their talents. Last year, when the General Education Law was reviewed at the Saeima at third reading, the Ministry of Education and Science proposed amendments that in fact excluded the possibility for the state to finance such additional education with an argument that schools should be given more flexibility. However, it is now clear that it is not more flexibility, but it is, by its very nature, unclear whether they will be able to implement these programmes because of the lack of clarity about the allocation of funding. With this draft law, we have prepared a clear regulation that schools can implement such programmes. And the other thing is that the country finances such programmes. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Who was in the government?” ) Today there is another similar draft law on the agenda of the Saeima, where a delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers is foreseen, but it seems to me that it is very important that the draft law already provides for both those sectors in which schools may develop and implement additional programmes and a clear condition that the state allocates funds for this purpose. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. ( K. Feldman's intermediate call.) The positive is that society has already responded to amendments to last year's law, as well as the Ministry of Education and Science has planned a meeting with non-governmental organizations. So I'm calling for this bill... And the other... to support and see below in the commissions.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U6	Ms. Anita Muižniece, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U7	Good afternoon! On the draft law presented. The idea is good, but if you want to read it, you have to ask the question - either these experienced Members, some of whom were ministers of the previous government, by the way, did not understand, were wrong, wanted to be better, but they did, as always, or the draft law conceals the current trick, how to demolish and destroy the last stage of the transition to the new text? Consequently, the entire future education system, which I would like to call a clear sabotage in that case. ( Interface: ‘ That’s it! ’) ) There is another possibility, which is also not excluded, that there is deliberately an indecent and absurd draft law on a matter which is loud in the public, which will be addressed and which I hope most likely will not be supported by the responsible Members of the Saeima, for example, in order to record immediately after the meeting on social networks that the coalition never supports the draft laws submitted by the opposition. You write in harmony, and then there will also be reasons to consider whether to support it! I will, of course, explain why I will ask for no support. But I'm going to say that, as a good-believing person, I still want to think that as a result of public pressure... This miracle was worked out in a great hurry without studying and understanding. Why do I say “this miracle”? Because when you read an annotation explaining why the bill is needed... there it is written on white that this is necessary on the basis of questions asked by opinion leaders, parents, NGOs in connection with amendments to the law adopted in 2018; it is necessary to "confirm access to funding for specially developed educational programmes". What, then, are these - the specific programmes? Where is that term used? There's no one for us! But, okay. It is clear from the following text that this is about professionally oriented programmes and it is the primary school... I will quote again: “The changes will affect 45 schools all over Latvia, 18 of which are music shift schools.” Because if the champions of lies and government ministers had not turned off their memory button and wanted to remember the transition to the new learning content, as well as follow the standard offer of secondary education (which, by the way, has already been published and will come into force in 2020), then they would know that with September next year all secondary schools will be offered deeper fields... specialization, whether it's mathematics, science, languages or music - like which school... according to traditions, materials for technical provision or the composition of educators... But in every school it will be implemented. And that means... In principle, we can also stop here and do not support this, because Article 42 is specifically about secondary education. On the other hand, discussions are about the basic education stage for which funding is provided... additional funding and the amendments tabled to these 45 schools do not solve the problem to any extent. But... I'm going to keep it. If we did, however, support this, it would not only run counter to the new offer for secondary education, but also limit the possibilities for secondary schools to implement secondary education programmes with a broader specialisation. The first sentence of paragraph 2 in general offers a strange solution that the public budget does not only finance this... Only the programmes referred to in this Part. But what? Others won't finance? It can be seen from the text that it is not financed even if the programme fits several directions, or if the school implements several... Because it's only funded if the programme is in the same direction. Paragraph 2 of the draft law provides that the implementation of the programme referred to in paragraph 1 shall be financed from the state budget in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Cabinet of... is contrary to Section 60(3) of the Education Act, which deals with the costs of educational programmes. It seems that when working on “this miracle”, the applicants did not take into account also paragraph 38 of the transitional provisions of the General Education Law on changes, the time of entry into force... September of next year... It's just logical, because in the middle of the school year... as the applicants have indicated, with 1 January... no change can actually be introduced. And it is not clear why these amendments should enter into force on 1 January. You tell me which school in the middle of the school year will be able to change and replan all the teaching work? And can't it be that 618 will stand at the Saeima building instead of 45 schools? As I said at the beginning of my speech, I should like to thank you for your effort, but the champions too may not lose their distance. And what's the reason for it, each of you – ignorance, unwillingness, deliberate harm or simply seeking cheap publicity. But... Colleagues! So that, after this sitting, someone does not squander the fact that the coalition is bad or that we are not interested in the future of schools of diversion, I will add that we have drawn up a bill (paragraph 6 on the agenda), which, contrary to this, will really address the question of the future existence of 45 schools, and which I will ask you to support at a later stage when we look at it on the agenda. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U8	Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education” (No. 316/Lp13) transfer to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, making it a responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 32, for - 55, for - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Real Estate Tax” presented by the Member Reizniece-Ozola, Krauze, Čakša, Bergmanis, Dūklava, Valaiņa, Augulis and Jalinskas be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ “A Member, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U9	Colleagues! This draft law provides for the principle that persons are exempt from real estate tax by limiting the amount of the exemption and the size of the property. It is planned that the area of land in the city should not... There should be no more than 1500 square metres in villages, and no more than two hectares with a total cadastral value of up to 100 thousand euro. You will be able to get up again in the truce, drop all kinds of strife, and ask, ‘ Why now, where have you been before? ’ ( Interface: “A good question! ” ) I will explain a little. This task was indeed also on the agenda of the previous government. But why did the real estate tax rates not be amended and these restrictions set? Because in a country with cadastral values, there is a total barrack. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Feldmans: “You have frozen for six years!” ) There are 2500 fold differences (interfaces.) in cadastral values between Riga and Latgale border area. If you change the rates in such a disorderly system that, for example, there are two properties on one street and depending on who lives there, the cadastral values vary many times... or many private homes have declared libraries, or in the heart of Old Riga suddenly have production buildings, because this can reduce cadastral values, either, of course, it is not reasonable to change the law. Therefore, by spring of last year, the Ministry of Justice had the task of sorting out cadastral values and developing a new methodology that would also correspond to market values. However, this task has not been accomplished. In the autumn, the Minister of Justice, Dzintars Rasnačs, said that he would not make these amendments because they are politically sensitive, they do not do so before the elections. This issue has been moved to the middle of 2020 on the agenda of this government, although I know there are already entries. It should be easy to go beyond political sensitivity and to harmonise the methodology so that you can finally answer the initiatives of more than 50,000 citizens on the ManaBalss.lv portal, which calls for the exemption of the only home from real estate tax. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstin’s intermediate call sign.) I call for support. You will probably reject it again, but I would ask you to direct this draft law to the work of the commissions so that, if necessary, what details can be repaired rather than the demonstrations from the parliamentary tribunal to talk about what bolts... whether or not any sentences have been written precisely. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (A. Leanny's intermediate call sign.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U10	Mr. Atis Zakaitistov has applied for a speech. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U11	Hello, colleagues! I will start by saying a couple of facts that, in my opinion, will help to understand the situation and will describe what is really happening here. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Agešins: “The sitting of the Saeima!” ) On 11 April 2017, the government of Kučinski took note of a very sensitive issue, namely real estate tax. It is now 25 months to this day. Twenty - two of these months, the green farmers’ government has been in power. In my opinion, this shows their true attitude (interim: “You can do better! You don’t have to postpone until 2021!’ ) against real estate tax. This offer is hypocritical. Often people are trying to understand: “Well, what is it? There is a sensitive question, an important question, but the coalition rejects it." Some people say: “Well, what is it? What is the political game when sensitive questions are not discussed?” I would like to use this time, this moment, to explain what its political games are. To explain this, I will use a sensational method called a storylike method. This method implies that a simple story is presented and, by analogy, when we understand the internal logic of this story, we can also understand the general situation. My story was inspired by Mr. Vejonis, who, as the first line of his Presidency... said, “Well, maybe you have to go!” But the story is about a man who comes to the restaurant and says to the guest: “Get me one before he starts.” The guest's coming. In a moment's time, the man demands: “Get me a second before you start.” Then the husband again asks: “Get me a third before you start.” The guest says, “But who will pay?” ( Internouncing call.) Now the husband answers, “Now it starts!” (Laughter) And so the similarity of opposition tactics is to pick up sensitive questions, to be sensitive questions “before beginning” before someone thought how to finance all of this. I am trying to demonstrate the determination of this government to speak (Dep. Mr Reizniece-Ozola: 'You didn't think about funding before the elections!' ) on real estate tax. I have received from the Ministry of Finance all possible calculations relating to real estate tax. This government has set up a system of... systemically passing through tax issues and issues related to privileges and cash flows. We will look at the cadastral value that the previous government left. We will look at the real estate tax issue. What I want. I want people to understand that we are now saying no to transfer real estate tax to commissions... We say, not because it is not an important issue, but because it is not yet fully figured out how it will be financed. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Bergmanis’ intermediate call.) And for its part, the ZZS is trying, so to say, to drive through everything you can, “before you start”. Let's vote 'no'! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U12	Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Real Estate Tax”” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 30, against - 55, abstaining. Consequently, the draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on the Law on Cooperative Society presented by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission be referred to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education” presented by Members Muižnieces, Strīķe, Dzintara, Ribena, Golubeva, Dūris, Asseradena, Feldman, Ozola and Rancāns (No. 319/Lp13) transferred to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Anita Muižniece, a Member, has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U13	Good afternoon, colleagues! Hopefully, today's last time. As I said earlier (Interior call.) , we have taken into account the wide-ranging debate on the future of schools in transition... the future of these schools, which are implementing basic education programmes in a professionally oriented direction. We have prepared and presented to the Saeima a high-quality draft law “Amendments to the General Education Law” to strengthen the norm on the possibilities of implementation of professionally oriented or so-called “direction programs”. So, in general, it is a law to say that such programmes can be implemented (like what is stated for minority programmes), as well as to make it clear that they will have the possibility to be eligible for funding from the state budget after 1 September 2020. This problem arose last year, when the government approved the amendments to put an end to the additional financing of the in-depth programmes as of 1 September 2020. This means, in fact, that, at the basic education stage, we would simply wipe out the traditions and values that we have been learning for years in many schools, for example, in music or language learning. Schools such as the 6th Riga Secondary School, which are famous for their orchestra traditions, high achievements in music, would become regular schools. Children would have to hope to go to a free place at a nearby music or art school, go to an in-depth course of foreign language, music or art and, in essence, devote their development and talent to almost all day. And I really know this as a parent whose child has been in such a shift school for the first year, but now he attends a regular music school, and three times a week is only around eight at home. These schools... It is also not a story of whether children who are currently playing in an orchestra or in-depth learning of figurery, languages, will become professionals in the future. The story is about how rich our future society will grow. However, it must be said honestly that the current system of financing these schools has not been either fair or fair or really understandable. In fact, it has been such a spending on the basis of history, without assessing quality, without requiring higher achievements from these students, and it has also been a waste of money for the same and perhaps even better schools, which are also implementing equivalent programmes, but have been set up later than those 45 schools. Our proposed version not only strengthens access to funding, but also addresses additional aspects and creates opportunities for higher learning outcomes. You'll agree, but it's rather strange if at school, where you learn music in depth... And here I have to say, I'm sorry, it's closer to the 6th high school graduate... Finally, grade 9, you need to know the same thing for a student who doesn't learn it. The same is true with languages and mathematics. As early as 5 June school representatives were invited to discuss in the Ministry in order to jointly develop possible criteria for granting funding, therefore in Article 41 of the submitted draft law we have also provided for amendments regarding the time limit for the Cabinet to determine the criteria to qualify for funding. Such a common, systematic approach will not only ensure that there will be more talented young people in the country who, in addition to general education, will have a certain level of education, but also fair access to 89 schools rather than 45, as well as equal opportunities, procedures and quality requirements. In conclusion, I would just like to thank the active society, which raised concerns about this decision of the previous government, all those who supported the signing, as well as those who voted in favour of this draft law. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U14	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the member Valaiņa, Pucena, Reizniece-Ozola, Dūklava, Kučinska and Augulis submit the draft law “Amendments to the Saeima Election Law” to the National Administration and Municipal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U15	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! It's about this bill. This bill is very close to what is on the Saeima's agenda today for the third reading and about which I have already talked from this platform at second reading... on these proposals, but they were withdrawn in order to submit a draft law with all the annotation in the normal, normal manner. These amendments are those on which the Commission shared a common understanding and which were not discussed either... conceptual decisions... they were also asked to write an annotation with a normal explanation of why it should be amended. In my opinion, this debate must begin now. I have also said this to the committee responsible before. The sooner this debate starts, the sooner it will be possible to start work, as such fundamental amendments to the electoral law of the Saeima limit us to time... so that they can be examined in substance and enter into force at least one year before the next parliamentary elections... law would be passed... Such amendments are usually of quite a long duration. In relation to what is included in this draft law. This draft law points to quite a problem. With each election of the Saeima, the number of members elected from Riga is increasing in proportion to the number of elected members from the regions. If we look at why it is... we have a proportional electoral principle. So everything is divided in proportion. The distribution shall be proportionate. Only the problem - when the Saeima Election Law was passed, then there was a norm that Latvians living abroad... Members... Votes are simply added to Riga. At that time, they were two mandates. At the moment, they are already eight mandates. It is important to look at this in substance, because this is how proportionality is disrupted. I mean, and... But if we look at a wider range of things, where more such issues are dealt with in some way... These are the elections to the European Parliament. In the elections to the European Parliament... In order to avoid these disproportions, a maximum number and a minimum number are set. At least six members shall be elected from Malta, although the population does not correspond to six. But from Germany - not more than 94, although the population would be able to be elected from Germany, if I look at it proportionately, much more Members. In this way, proportionality is regulated. In our case, one very serious problem is also that those who have left... I think that activation in elections would be much higher if the elected Members from the regions were motivated to travel abroad and encourage them to participate in the parliamentary elections. But Latvians living abroad have no opportunity to vote for the region. It's a long problem. And this bill offers a solution to this problem. Let me say this: colleagues, this is not a new solution! We had a two-year debate on these proposals, and then the Saeima... President of Latvia Berzins rejects these proposals back with the argumentation: “Please re-evaluate!” Because proportionality was not respected. But the problem was that there was no electoral register at that time. Now that's it. And that was the only reason why we gave up this idea at the time and were waiting all the time for this system to finally prepare for the introduction of such a mechanism. It is now ready. And I think this debate should start. Several constitutional law experts have worked on this draft law, and direct consultations of parliamentary election experts have taken place. Inviting the commission responsible to... When these issues were already dealt with in another draft law for the second reading, there were several experts who expressed their position on it and agreed conceptually that this could be seen and that it should also be seen. We have also pointed out in our statement that we are considering a broad debate within the committee responsible for this draft law, involving non-governmental organisations and involving experts in broad discussions. I think that this broad discussion should be held even before the first reading in order to be able (Interface: “Time!” ) already conceptually decide on these issues. Thank you, colleagues. I call on you to support this draft law, so that it is passed on to the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U16	Thank you, Mr. Valaiņš, thank you. ‘ Inese Voika, Member, has applied against’.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U17	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Good morning, colleagues! Thank you, Mr Valaiņš, for your proposals. In general, we cooperate well from time to time. Yesterday in the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government we jointly supported changes to the Law on Public Welfare Organisations. But this time, about this bill. There are several reasons why I call on our colleagues to vote 'no', both in terms of content and for one another. ( Insight: ‘ What? ’) ) Because of course there is a need for changes to the electoral law of the Saeima. And we have to think that the elections are in line with the spirit of time and are proportionate to the changes that have taken place in the population. However, the main reason why I will not be able to support the changes that you are proposing is because of what you said about attracting non-governmental organisations. Because you're getting up here every time you're... I do not understand whether you represent the Saeima and your parliamentary mandate or a non-governmental organisation called the Association of the Great Cities of Latvia. And if we were like a British parliament, you should say, every time you come here, when you come, "Hello! I am paid by the Latvian Saeima and I am paid by this association as much each year.” (Applause) And that's why... If you say that we need to change regional proportionality and reduce the number of votes for Riga, then I cannot listen to it normally. I only hear it “The Association of the Great Cities of Latvia... an association of other cities’. It's a big noise... what you say and will always throw a shadow on your proposals as a Member, because it is not clear whether you are preparing it or the great army of consultants of the Association of the Great Cities of Latvia. Members of the Saeima! I invite you to work on amendments to the Saeima Election Law in time, but do not support these proposals either by Member Valaiņa or Chief Executive Officer of the Association of the Great Cities of Latvia Valaiņa. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U18	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Saeima Election Law” to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 51, for - 35, for - 2. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia” be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Processing of Personal Data” submitted by the Legal Commission be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the draft law on amendments to the Law on Scientific Activities presented by the Education, Culture and Science Commission be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to the transmission of the draft law? And the objections? Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Scientific Activities” to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 59, for - 18, for - 7. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda - reports by the Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. The Saeima Presidium has received the Member Vjačeslava Dombrovskis, Valeria Agešina, Vladimir Nikonova, Lubova Švekova, Jānis Tutina, Boris Cileviča, Arthur Rubika, Regina Ločmele-Lunova, Jānis Krišāns and Ivars Zariņš' draft decision - own-initiative proposal on the predictability and stability of tax policy. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? ( The box “Yes! ”) “Yes!” ) Members have reservations. Mr Dombrovskis, will you talk about it or 'no' according to the procedure? Under the procedure, Members have the opportunity to speak 'for' or 'no'. Thus, the name of Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis is on the agenda for the next ordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U19	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear colleagues, In 2017, the Saeima supported an ambitious tax reform. It took two years to develop it, and close cooperation with the social partners and business organisations took place. Since the adoption of this reform, all parties have reached one important conclusion: tax should not be changed annually. Because such instability and unpredictability causes losses to Latvian entrepreneurs and reduces their competitiveness, making it unnecessary to spend time and resources to adapt to the new policy. It was such an agreement that was reached between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and business organisations - not to interfere with taxes until 2021 at least. Dear colleagues, The growth rate of our economy is slow, the shadow economy is growing, the so-called fiscal space for the coming year is strongly negative, but voters have not forgotten the promises of pre-election. It will be difficult to describe the budget for the next year 2020 as technical and to say that it was made up of someone else's government, namely Kučinski. Colleagues, in this situation entrepreneurs are concerned that the Government of the Republic of Latvia could violate the agreement and introduce new taxes as early as next year. There is a concern that the government could propose the complete elimination of favourable tax treatment for small businesses. We need to send a strong message to the public that tax rates will not be raised next year, new taxes will not be introduced, tax concessions will not be abolished, favourable tax regimes will not be eliminated. Therefore, I invite you to support this draft decision of the Saeima, which intends to instruct the government: firstly, the Cabinet of Ministers not to propose changes to tax policy in 2020; secondly, the Cabinet of Ministers to encourage any changes to tax policy only after the conclusion of the 2017 tax reform and the comprehensive assessment of its results; thirdly, the Budgetary and Financial (Financial) Commission to exercise parliamentary control over the performance of the tasks assigned to the Cabinet of Ministers. Dear colleagues, I understand that the Saeima has so far not been very good at fulfilling the tasks assigned to the government. It is worth only remembering the famous decision of the Saeima regarding the OIC. However, I am optimistic and hope that the moment will come when the government of Karina will also begin to comply with the decisions of the Saeima. Colleagues! Of course, entrepreneurs will only be happy if the government is encouraging tax reductions or, for example, increasing the tax-free minimum to EUR 500, as some have promised. It's self-evident that... If the government finds an opportunity to do so, then it can propose this to the legislator for tomorrow. I call on you fellow Members to ensure the predictability and stability of the tax system for at least the next year. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U20	“Pret” has applied to speak to Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U21	Hello! As the tablo says, I will speak against this completely absurd proposal. We just looked at real estate tax before some draft laws... And so on... And, you see, it turns out that one of the opposition now expresses the opposite opinion - but nothing can be changed and so on. I don't know why... Well, I understand why anti-national forces do not want to reduce property tax. ( The transcripts are: “I finally understand! ” ; “Positive cools!” (Laughter) Because the city of Riga will be a great loser. ( GREEN’S INTERPRETATION) Therefore, they want no reduction in real estate tax rates (in the context of the improvement of the cadastre value system initiated by the Ministry of Justice). I understand that they do not want us to talk not only about rates (inter-sentences of members of the Francée ZZS.) , but also on parameters. I understand that they do not want us to raise the unobservable minimum wage and pensions. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Švecova: “Cheaters!” ) I understand all this. And the next sitting will go and again present some populist “5 × 500”... ‘5 × 700’... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Švecova: “Cheaters!” ) You can read another program once! ( Interface: “500! ” ) Why are you fighting tax reductions? Why do you need it? To Riga... I understand that going very bad for Riga. But taxes must be reduced, and we will do so. Let us change the parameters. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Švecova: “Cheaters!” ) I call upon you to shame yourself and vote against this thoughtless proposal. No person in Latvia will understand why SAVE would like to freeze tax rates. That's crazy! You would have been ashamed once, please! Please never make such proposals. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U22	Colleagues, we will vote in favour of putting this draft decision on the agenda for the next sitting. ( From the UK Group: 'We vote 'no'!' ) Please call us! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision on the predictability and stability of tax policy on the agenda of the next session! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the draft decision is not included on the agenda of the next regular sitting. Is there a proposal to hand over this draft decision to one of the commissions? ( Internouncing call.) So there is no proposal to hand over one of the commissions. ( The interdependencies of the fraction say: ‘ How is it not?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Budget Commission!’ ) And? So... Who will speak to the applicants? Please turn on the microphone for Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U23	Referral to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U24	There is a proposal to refer the draft decision to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Colleagues! We will vote on this proposal. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission the draft decision on the predictability and stability of tax policy! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft decision is therefore not referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. This own-initiative proposal is therefore rejected. On the agenda - report by the Presidium of Saeima on the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 301 Latvian citizen “On streets without salt””. We have received the draft decision submitted by the Commission for Mandate, Ethics and Application – the own-initiative proposal “On the way forward of the 10 301 Latvian citizen’s collective application “On City streets without salt””. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? Are there any objections? ( Internouncing call.) There is no objection. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications has submitted a draft decision – the own-initiative proposal “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 273 Latvian citizens “On the joint waiver of compensation of members of the Saeima from compensation””. Are there any objections to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. On the granting of leave. For unpaid leave granted to Anda Chakša Member on 23 May this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Anda Chakša, a Member, requesting unpaid leave on 23 May this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. On the agenda, the question of setting up, approving and reviewing the reports of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. This Decision is addressed to the Federal Republic of Germany. 43140 (2015/NN) and the setting-up of actions by the institutions for damage and redress’. Mr. Schmidt, will you speak as a Member? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Schmidt: “Yes!” ; intermediate statement: “As President!” (Laughter) So it's the name of the Member Digijs Schmidt. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Klementjev: “As a presidential candidate!” ) The question was: will you speak on behalf of the applicants or represent your Member's opinion? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Schmidt: “I have not yet agreed with others, so as a Member.” ) The name of the Member Digim Schmit.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U25	Hello, ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleagues, I won't repeat and don't miss the time with everything I've said to these sagas... OIC sagas or aphers or whatever we call it. It's about the commission. In particular, we could perhaps also not have formed this commission if the government had complied with the decision of the Saeima and if at least a draft law on the termination of the OIC system had been brought to the Saeima. But since this was not done, this commission is inevitable. In other words, the commission’s task on several pages is very precise. Let’s go through the way it was made, or, as sometimes he says, who first said: “Well... “... And, historically, such support was given what, to say, resulted in... actually, I will say, well, in such a major economic crime in the history of Latvia. Four people were collected from Latvia... around EUR 4 billion. We charged more than what we could use for the market price. One thing if we were... the people of our country would have paid it in the budget and it would have been in some other way divided, but we paid it directly to the people of Latvia who, as they say, live well... That's one thing. The other thing. We destroyed Latvia's competitiveness with this policy. We have one of the most expensive electricity final prices in Latvia... In the European Union: In particular, no energy-intensive company will come to Latvia if it is fully understood and is not directly related to any resource, which would make it interesting to be here. Not only won't come, but he's already gone. I have repeatedly mentioned companies that are no longer here, and also companies that are no longer there. Such as “Liepājas metalurgs”. ‘ Liepaja Metalurgs could... by which all Liepaja, as she says, could ever be led by God the master, but with such an extra fee the company could not exist and compete. I mean, let's go through the way it happened. In implementing such a policy, did anyone ever count on what it would mean for the Latvian economy? If he had counted, was those calculations provided? Let us go through how it is possible and who is responsible for the fact that, over a period of 10 years, this aid has not been sounded by the European Commission and has actually been illegal? Let's go through why we've overcompensated this... I couldn't even call it a business... Afero (forgive!) to the extent that the European Commission... even after alignment... provided that the total amount should not exceed a profit margin of nine percentage points? We know that there are cases where it has exceeded 60, yes. Let us also go through that evaluation of the rule of law. That is, we hear a lot today: someone can sue someone in court. Someone can always sue before the court, but today only a much greater basis for it is for those who have paid OICs than for those who have received them. There will also be a question of the control mechanism. Why was that possible and not under control? No less important is the last section, namely what the Latvian law enforcement authorities have done, which should have seen and acted. As you know, the parliamentary commission has the right and the duty to invite the representatives of the prosecutor's office to the Commission. I think they'll be there. And let us win all the answers, not so much as to punish someone (probably to be punished) but first of all, so that nothing of this happens again in the future. We know that it is not only the OIC that continues today under a fantastic new name under which everything can be left - 'climate change'. How will we change its climate now? Let's get the dinosaurs back to the world? We are already thinking of how to steer a really new afer called climate change. And so that it doesn't happen, we need to look at what happened in the past. I hope that this evaluation will help to finally get rid of this phase. I really see that this is a supporting instrument for the Ministry of Economics at this point. If the Ministry of Economics really wants to deal with this area, this is an auxiliary instrument. It's not against anyone. That's all I wanted to say in brief. I hope for productive work. The Commission is proposed to be set up for a half-yearly period. There was a dispute about whether for a year or six months. We have half a year, there is nothing to set a very long deadline! I hope that we will manage and get to the conclusions and, above all, the actions that will make Latvia more competitive, and that such a billion of people will no longer be able to steal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U26	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. ( Ivar, where is Nils?) ; “Where is your assistant?” (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U27	Hello, colleagues! My attitude towards investigation commissions is very sceptical. Like most of society. And this attitude comes not only from the fact that I have had the opportunity to assess what the investigation commissions have managed to do, but also from the fact that I have had to act in one such commission and enjoy how the investigation commissions work. Unfortunately, our legislative framework, namely the roll of order of the Saeima, is designed in such a way that the work of such an investigative commission can be discredited as much as possible, making it a full profile. And it is usually experienced by these commissions. I remember how, while working in the Commission related to the Krajbanka Crach of Latvia, even the committee of obvious cases was afraid not only to investigate and recognise, but then they were not mentioned in the report at all. So all this time, in the fight against the OIC, I avoided making a commission, because it was clear that this was the composition of a commission... with the composition of the Saeima like it was... THE only political force that tried to fight it was SAID. Of course, being in a minority is totally hopeless to achieve something in such a commission. What's significant... I have repeatedly received calls from other Members, from Members of the Coalition - now you are setting up, but finally, the Commission of Inquiry! How long will you take with it? How long have you been trying to investigate all this? But I did not specifically set up an investigative commission, I used other instruments of parliamentary scrutiny - Members' questions, requests, which is essentially the same investigation, only as a single committee meeting, where a particular aspect of the area can be investigated and demonstrated, and I did not set up this committee. But there were Members of Unity who said: now we are setting up an investigative commission on all this! It's enough for you to investigate all this! Now the situation has changed and I hope that its parliamentary parties... those parties that are now in the Saeima and who promised the voters with foam on their lips that they would deal with this afer, investigate, bring about justice, respond to their promises and really do it, come to this commission to work precisely for this purpose - not to cover this afer, but to really finally introduce their complete clarity. Much has already been done to ensure that the work of this commission is truly successful. Why did I agree and support the creation of this commission? Because a decent housework has been done. One of the things is that the commission's task has been developed. Even if those who come to this commission have no political will to denounce this area, they will still have to carry out the task of the commission, which has very specific questions to answer, whether they want to or will not. That's one thing. The other thing is that a huge amount of work has already been done. In principle, a great deal has been discovered, left simply to take the materials and pass through them. I have a concrete plan for how we can do this work quickly, efficiently and very soon - unlike other commissions. This commission could produce real, tangible results and let society as a whole know how this scene has been created and who is responsible for it. I have such a plan, and indeed within six months we can deal with it all. So, colleagues, I call on you to support this commission and prove that the Saeima is also able to do something in the public interest, not just for the benefit of political markets. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U28	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U29	Hello, colleagues! In the rule of law, decisions of the Saeima shall be enforced. The decision on the OIC, which was taken on 10 January 2019, has not been implemented and the Saeima has also not requested the implementation of this decision. The essence of this decision was to instruct the Cabinet of Ministers to cancel OIK by 31 March of this year. In a legal state in which Parliament allows legal nihilism and the fact that the decisions of the Saeima are not being implemented, in fact degrade the prestige of the Saeima, degrade the force of laws, degrade the power and authority of the Saeima decisions - in such a country, the President of Latvia releases the parliament. In a legal state about non-compliance with the Saeima decisions and the fact that the Saeima allows non-compliance with its decisions, the President of Latvia should act and Parliament should be released. It is precisely because Parliament is not a place where legal nihilism may be allowed. The issue of OIC is the issue of legal nihilism and poverty in which Latvian society lives. That is why I will also support the creation of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. But... I would like to emphasise once again not only the seriousness of the OIC issue, but... I would like to stress, above all, the seriousness of the decision to abolish the OIC in this House, but this decision has not been complied with. And the most strange thing is that Parliament allows us to continue not to comply with this decision that we ourselves have made! A legally unlawful situation develops, an unprecedented case is formed in the history of the Latvian Parliament: it was adopted by the parliament - with the force of the law! - the decisions can afford not to be complied with. And under these conditions, the President of Latvia should act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U30	The name is Ralph Nemir, Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U31	Hello, dear colleagues! ( Interfaces: “Hello! ” “Chow!” ) Yes, indeed, the creation of this parliamentary committee of inquiry is to be welcomed. It's very nice that it's being created. What, then, will it be about the commission? It will actually be a commission that will look at history. The mandatory procurement system was established in 1995 and has indeed developed over different periods of time. If we look at the decision to set up this commission, we can see that there is an argument such as ‘a system that is not in the economic interest’. Yes, it could also have been overcompensated at some point. Yes, it could also be genuinely oversubsidised. But then there is the question - what previous Prime Ministers have done... and including the person who signed this application? ... has also been in office for a long time and this system could certainly have been regulated. What do we see? In the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, the Ministry of Economy has presented a framework for how we can support green energy, strengthen our energy security, address our environmental issues, and the members of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy have supported it and said that it is good. The one we've developed. If we look at the previous periods, we can see that this system has been built up since 1995... There have been 24 economic ministers until today, 13 prime ministers. So the question is, who has actually been guilty at what point? Was it perfect for all to be guilty? And in this case, of course, we also need to think about the other institutions that have adopted the methodology. In particular, attention should also be paid to the work of the Public Service Regulatory Commission in previous periods. The creation of such a commission should certainly be supported. We can look at history. There have been several periods when this system has really slipped. But what do we do in the Ministry of Economics? We want to put this right. And, of course, thank you to the members of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, who have asked us questions that have been answered. And in any case we work very actively on it. That's why... What else have we done? This is certainly not just an OIC system. If we look at household bills, then... It's only 15 percent... the distribution tariff is, however, approximately 40. Our main task is to reduce bills for electricity users. The Ministry of Economy is working on this. I therefore support the creation of such a commission. I wish it every success. The Ministry of Economics will, as far as possible, support and provide all necessary information. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U32	Thank you to the Minister for Economic Affairs. Name to Member Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U33	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Minister! Colleagues! Resurrection! The initial aim of energy subsidies was to make Latvia greener and to reduce our dependence on Russian gas. The intentions were good - to support new energy producers so that there would be efficient co-production of electricity and heat in Latvia and we would use local renewable resources such as wood, river and wind energy. The mandatory extension of the procurement component not only to renewable energy but also to the large Latvenergo TEC, which produces electricity from Russian gas, was and is a mistake. This is a mistake by the Kalvis and Godman governments and a deliberate evil. Today, the agenda for the sitting of the Saeima is the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. Whether this form will be the best way to terminate the mandatory procurement component will show time and the results of the commission work. The establishment of the Commission is a race ahead, as one of Karini's government's priorities is the abolition of the mandatory procurement component. This cannot be done quickly, but I believe it will be done. But if colleagues from the opposition want to form a parliamentary committee today, then we in the 'Development/About!' Group. , let us act in the commission and do the best we can. We believe that it is in the hands of the Members who will be in this Commission that there is an agenda and that it is up to the Commissioners to decide for themselves on matters, tasks in the work of the Commission. I would not like this commission to be made solely as the performer of the tasks directed at by the draft decision in question. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zariņš’ intermediate call.) Members of the Commission should have a wide right to draw up their agendas and also raise their questions. Of course, the proposals made by the applicants must be taken into account, but they must be assessed by this committee. The examination of the content of the draft decision drawn up by the applicants leads to the conclusion that it contains a number of arguments which have not been substantiated. It is full of unsubstantiated claims. It is therefore all the more important that the final decision on the agenda and the issues to be dealt with should be left to the decision of the Members of this Commission. As well as the submitter... the authors of the draft decision have foreseen that extensive research, studies will be carried out within the framework of the work of the committee. But whether the Commission has sufficient time and resources, it is an open question. It is essential that the work of this commission does not become a platform for loud slogans, populist slogans, and half - truth. It is important for the Commission to identify those responsible for the implementation and implementation of the mandatory procurement component, including those who have contributed to the termination of the mandatory procurement component. It is important that, as a result of the work of the committee, we put on shelves and pass on the story of the mandatory procurement component to the public assessment. And it is important that everyone understands from the very beginning - the Saeima is not and never will be an institution of law enforcement and investigation. The Commission, through its work, should help the public to gain a greater understanding of the compulsory procurement component process. In conclusion, I would like to call on the public to be critical of all the information relating to the components of compulsory procurement and to look into the information that is based on facts and evidence. It is a pity that the saga of the mandatory procurement component has created a great negative correlation with green energy, but I call on the public as a whole to understand that green energy is indeed a necessity for all of us and responsibility of the state of Latvia. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U34	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U35	I have also signed this document establishing a parliamentary committee of inquiry (Dep. S. Riekstins: “We know!” ), I'll explain why. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Don’t!” ) In my opinion, the fact that this document refers to the fact that there will be detection of the perpetrators - it is already... Politically responsible persons have already named the previous Saeima; this was done by Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis by sending a complete list to the Saeima. There were both current Members and current members of the government. Of course, we can go deeper and look at the official as well - who is then the preparer of their documents. But I think the most important thing for citizens is how all of this will then be reflected in the bills. In my opinion, the only success and only success of this committee will be not if we tell us who is to blame, but if we manage to achieve something really realistic in order to reduce electricity bills for citizens. That would be the only positive result. If you look at... From a political point of view, it must be said that the policy is reflected above all in the state budget. There are pre-election promises, and here I am looking at a number of parties that said that we need not to arrange, but we need to cancel the OIC altogether. In one case or another, I thought... I believe that this is the objective of reducing electricity bills. But in this case... If we look at the national budget, we see that the budget reflects different priorities. All due respect for those who have achieved some resources to implement their priorities! This is what I can say about administrative territorial reform, about the evaluation of the judicial system; there are real budgetary means to implement the political priority. But the OIC for dealing with the problem... Unfortunately, I didn't see any resources there... really political... that we really want to sort it out. A lot has happened. It's been a decision of the Saeima... 31 March... not fulfilled. All right! But at the same time... I haven't seen such clear, understandable directions, however... what they're doing to make them... I won't even say no more, OIC, I'll say electricity bills... to make people's bills go down. On the contrary! There are more and more initiatives, climate and other issues that give me that other feeling... the feeling of being on the contrary: people could have more bills. I think the parliamentary commission will be the format in which we could look more... not how to arrange... There I do not fully agree with the Minister... not - how to sort out, but - how to put an end to these illegal payments, as the authors of this request have already said; how we achieve a reduction in electricity bills for people as soon as possible. Colleagues! I call on you to work constructively, and I hope that there will be broad involvement of the public, even though the public sees where there is action, where there is inaction. Because I'm starting to feel like we all want to do something... all say that they are doing something, but electricity bills remain as they are, or even, on the contrary, they are increasing. That is why I will also support the creation of this committee of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U36	The name of Member Juta Stricky.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U37	Dear Members, Today, we are being proposed to consider a draft decision on the establishment of the parliamentary committee of inquiry for the Saeima signed by 35 opposition MEPs. Today, these opposition Members are giving us an old but well-warmed soup. I will be utopian and say that instead of being friendlyly united by these Members in the fight, for example, against the efforts of our eastern neighbour to conquer our energy market, to think and use their capabilities to protect Latvia's national interests, they put this soup boiler on a stove that is fired with Russian gas. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Papule’s intermediate call sign.) I do not deny that the OIC soup that has been jammed in the past governments will have to be destroyed. However, there is a question: is this parliamentary commission the one that can do it? ( GREEN’S INTERPRETATION) If the commission is able to give a clear answer to even part of the questions, it will certainly be worth the vote on the creation of this commission. But if the Members on the Commission are the ones who will use this parliamentary investigation weapon for cheap fighting (Dep. E. Papule’s intermediate call sign.) for the attention of the voters, then it will only be another case of waste of public money for making a political show. Examples do not need to be searched far. Mr. Riga Routine is well aware that public funds are being actively channelled to fund the necessary advertising campaigns alone. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Papule: “What you left Riga City Council – you could have arranged! Facing!’ ) Dear Members! I'll turn to everyone - remember, please! Sitting in the chair of the parliamentary committee of inquiry does not mean cheap shouting about how bad everything is, but rather a thorough analysis of facts and the creation of reasonable conclusions. Please do not compromise the mandate given to the parliamentary committee. And early late endurance and patience for the leaders of the future commission. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U38	The name to Member Roman Money.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U39	Hello, Madam President. Dear colleagues, The electricity mandatory procurement component, or OIC, was a policy that was developed in all the Member States of the European Union, in a way or otherwise with tariff support providing a faster derogation from energy... implementation. It has to be acknowledged that this policy was introduced in Latvia by gross errors, perhaps also by some deliberate abuse. This will have to be clarified by the parliamentary committee of inquiry. Due to the gas lobby, the OIC was attributed to high-efficiency cogeneration plants, including high capacity plants. That was not right. But also in the area of renewables, everything was wrong. Operators were not required to use heat efficiently when generating electricity. No specific amount of agricultural waste in biomass cogeneration plants was required. As a result, the plants were operated exclusively on green biomass. It is neither environmentally friendly nor beneficial. Too small biomass cogeneration plants were supported, which were not viable after the cessation of the OIC aid. Consequently, no use was made of such investments. Likewise, no initially known ceilings were set for the use of the OIC aid instrument, but then, when the limits were set, quotas were allocated in an opaque way to those who allegedly first applied. The impact of this policy on the competitiveness of production has not been properly assessed. Later, these errors were difficult to correct. The partial shift of burdens from large companies to other consumers is also not entirely fair. Since the OIC system was not properly monitored, the aid continued to be granted to those who could not be granted it under the conditions. I have to admit that 12. Many of these problems were eliminated in the parliamentary term. But the parliamentary committee should make sure that it is in full. The development of these policies and the responsible ones must be assessed in a way that is not repeated, as, in addition to the negative impacts on competitiveness and costs for society as a whole, the OIC creates disbelief in any support mechanisms for climate or green energy. It will therefore be much more difficult for Latvia to implement the new climate energy targets, as the negative opinion of society will have to be taken into account. The Commission of Inquiry should examine whether every effort has been made to reduce the burden of OICs and seek further solutions in this direction. However, this must be done in a way that does not cause damage to the state. The Group of the National Alliance will support the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry and will actively participate in its work. I call on all the parliamentary groups to work to develop concrete legislative initiatives to reduce the burden of the OIC, along with the historical evaluation of the OIC. And so that the commission does not finish its work without results, as has happened with several previous committees of inquiry. Let all of us succeed! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U40	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U41	A little replica of what Jutta Strique said. If you hadn't been on the roof of the party for many years, together with Jušas, we shouldn't be building a parliamentary commission for the OIC today. ( From the UK Group: “It’s not a question! ” ) You would have had those OIK afferists a long time ago! (Applause) And with regard to the thought, I would remind you that the wife of Jušas was in his post at the Freeport of Riga for four thousand (from the UK Group: “What connection?” )... And it is very likely that it was the roof (from the UK Group: “Hid!” ) because you did not investigate you with Jušas for a long time in the Riga City Council (Dep. J. Strike: “It’s not a question!” ) and you haven’t been eating those corrupts for a long time (A noise in the hall. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) That's what you're talking about. ( From the UK Group: “It’s not a subject! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U42	Mr Gobzem, please speak on the question.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U43	I therefore call once again on Juta Strike to reflect on the matter that you are talking about. And in future, not to “roof” some aferists, but to support the investigation in essence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U44	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U45	Colleagues! You see for yourself - this discussion is a clear demonstration of what I have said... why I am so sceptical about such investigation commissions, because it is really very difficult to work in them constructively. This discussion also literally shows that we are talking about as though two different commissions, two different tasks. Here, people from the troupe say that there's something in the commission's tasks... half-truths, lies and the like. You've even read the tasks of this commission... what's written there? There are no claims there! There are specific questions that are asked for specific answers. And I assume that's the reason that makes many so desperate now... Start talking about it: know better, let the Members decide what they are going to do there. And so on. All of this is already known. Because, how's the investigation commission usually working? There are those who want to really investigate something, find the truth, and there are those who want to hide it. And since the commissions always have more who want to hide the truth, they have had the opportunity to hide it. This time you will not have the opportunity to do so, because you are given specific tasks that need to be fulfilled. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “Go to Riga City Council!” ) Next. You, the UKP, are now worried about Russian gas, you say: let us solve this issue better! Have you read these job tasks at all? There, one of the things we want to be clear about is precisely this question: how then was the support given to the TEC, which, by the way, is still illegal? Why... How could that be? Why is this being done? Who is responsible for this? So you're against that? You don't want to find out? You just want to whirlwind, make dangerous stories, but the truth, the clarity you don't want to get? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “We want to! Let's go!" ) Colleagues! If you really want to work and you really want the work of this committee to have results, I'll give you a road map. I know what we need to do to respond quickly to these questions. All that is necessary is your political will to do so. You will have the opportunity to prove this: you have this political will or not. And for society as a whole, to appreciate it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “There will be, Ivar! Calm down!” ) Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U46	The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U47	It's very short. Perhaps some Members have misunderstandings about the tasks of the committee of inquiry. For it to be absolutely clear before the vote that the tasks will be this way, they cannot be amended! They will have to be carried out by the Commission - as they have been adopted today -, passing through all this and providing answers to all the points. Well, just let it be clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U48	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision ‘On the objectives, impact, criteria for receiving aid, aid intensity, decision of the European Commission of 24 April 2017 in case SA of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission of the Saeima on the implementation of the OIC aid. 43140 (2015/NN) and on the establishment of actions by law enforcement authorities”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 93, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ( Interface: “Ivar, please! ”) ) Decision adopted. (Applause) And now the report on the motives for voting. On behalf of the New Unity Group. - Member Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U49	Dear colleagues, The Young Unity has supported the creation of a parliamentary committee of inquiry, and I would like to present you with our report on the motives for voting. The Constitution of the Republic of Latvia provides for the right of a third Saeima Members to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry in certain cases, and the Saeima Members must respect this right. The law of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission provides that the Saeima shall appoint a Parliamentary Investigation Commission for the purpose of conducting a parliamentary investigation. I stress the investigation. Parliamentary inquiry means a process of work for several months to achieve the objectives set by the initiators of the commission, examining the substance of the case, analysing the decisions taken, hearing the parties involved and preparing the final report of the panel at the end of this process. The law also provides that the parliamentary commission of the Saeima... I'm sorry... that the parliamentary committee of inquiry may be given a task to be determined on the basis of a proposal from Members who have requested that it be set up. Unfortunately, instead of including in the draft decision the objectives to be achieved in the parliamentary investigation process, the applicants have already set out to the committee of inquiry in the draft decision tasks that contain statements that would, in fact, be more relevant to the final report of the committee of inquiry. It is not acceptable that, at the time of its creation, the Commission should be given initial guidance on the conclusions by which it should, in principle, result from six months of work. We cannot support this approach. Unfortunately, it is not legally possible to distinguish between the decision to set up a parliamentary committee and the statements contained in this draft decision. The parliamentary roll of order does not foresee this. However, the Rules of Procedure do not provide that the Saeima must support without reservation those tasks which the minority of the Saeima has proposed in the draft decision. We therefore respect the rights of these 34 Members and support the creation of the investigative commission referred to in the draft decision, while hoping that it will work for the statutory and statutory purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U50	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralph Nemir, for taking part in the Saeima sitting. Dear colleagues, it is time for a break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U51	Colleagues! Members who are members of the Group of Members for cooperation with the Japanese Parliaments! But not just. Others are welcome too! 12.30 A special guest will visit us in the Chamber of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - Japanese Aikido Master Sakage Munetsgu. I think that there will be a great opportunity to get something new, to learn how not to attack yourself, but to use the enemy's attack for its own benefit.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U52	Thank you. Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U53	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Anda Čakša, Sergey Dolgopolovs, Nikolai Kabanovs, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere and Karina Sprūde.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U54	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U55	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can continue the Saeima sitting after the break. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting. The Legal Commission is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” to be included on the agenda of the sitting and to guide the first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Cooperative Society” drafted by the Commission and to direct it for consideration at first reading without re-examination at the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Processing of Personal Data” drawn up by the Commission be re-examined at first reading without re-examination by the responsible commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science asks that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Scientific Activities” drawn up by the Commission be re-examined at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to this work (Interface: Vote!) )... Are Members willing to vote? So, colleagues, we will vote. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Scientific Activities without re-examination by the commission responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law shall be placed on the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima for consideration at first reading. The agenda of the sitting will be examined further. Treatment of requests by Members Opinion of the Appeals Board On the agenda - request from Members Viktors Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Armands Krauze, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Alda Gobzema, Jūlija Stepanenko, Raimonds Bergmanis, Janina Yalinska, Gundars Dūklavs, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pūcem, Minister for Action by Stopping Municipal Regulations in Ikšķile and Jelgava Districts. Member Mārtiņš Staķis on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U56	Madam President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The request “On the action of the Minister by suspending the rules of inquiry of municipalities in Ikšķiles and Jelgava regions” was examined by the Commission. As Members had the opportunity to get acquainted with this request (its text has been distributed to you), I will just briefly tell you what responses have been received. Mr Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, responded to Members' request. And at the meeting of the commission, the Minister stressed that the assumption made by representatives of certain municipalities - that the municipalities are allowed to do something that is not prohibited by law - was erroneous. Municipalities are not private-law persons. There are major differences in law and practice as to how individuals can act and how municipalities can act. In the field of private law: if not prohibited, then allowed. In turn, public law (municipal law is part of public law!) There is an opposite principle - you can only act as the law allows. And on the basis of these considerations, the Minister considers that this is also the reason why an order has been issued to suspend the decision to conduct an illegal survey of the population of Ikšķile. The municipalities in this case are restricted by the law and must act as provided for by the law. At the meeting of the Committee on Petitions it was indicated that the Constitutional Court has already assessed the legitimacy of reform and recognised that administrative territorial reform of the Republic of Latvia should be recognised as an important and important issue of state and public life, which should be decided by the legislator himself, namely the Saeima. Minister Juris Pūce emphasised at the meeting that he supported the clarification of opinion of the residents and expressed the opinion of several residents of the municipality in a legitimate way. On 27 May, the Minister will launch a wide public consultation in Latvia, organising more than 100 meetings with municipal members and citizens with the aim of listening to opinions, collecting them and evaluating them in order to implement administrative territorial reform that would be in the interests of all Latvian citizens. Thus, by voting in favour and seven against, it was recognised that the request made by Members was rejected and that there was no reason to accept the request as a request by the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U57	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “ Viktor, come on!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U58	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Indeed, this request has been dealt with in the Commission, but there are some things I would like to argue from this troupe, why I think this request should be supported as a request by the Saeima. This request is both on whether the Minister at all had the right to suspend such a decision by the municipalities and on its substance, or whether it was right for him to do so. If we look... I also pointed out in the committee meeting the right of the minister to act... A very short time ago, there was a judgment of the Constitutional Court in the case of Salaspils, when the municipality of Salaspils applied to the Constitutional Court, challenging the decision of the Minister. In this judgment case of the Constitutional Court, I am also surprised... it is very recent, and the officials have certainly read it carefully... the rights of the Minister were mentioned. In particular, the right of the Minister to what type of decision he may and what type of decision he may not suspend from the point of view of relations between municipalities and the State. It was mentioned that it was precisely political decisions and decisions of a one-off nature which the Minister was not entitled to suspend. Of course, the Minister also argues that, in the area of national law, what is imposed by law on a public person must be done by it and that nothing outside it can happen. But in the case of municipalities... and it is a very carefully assessed issue... is Article 12 of the Law “On Municipalities”, which provides for voluntary initiatives. Minister Pūce, as a member of Riga City Council, has repeatedly participated in such votes in relation to Article 12 and in the same context. If we look at if there's... Allowed... on the importance of this article... Then I can mention... Well, everyone thinks about safety, for example. But wherever the local police are, it is set up according to the procedure laid down in Article 12. It was strengthened by the law four years later. Until then... I do not think that Mr Puce could question, need or need a local police force. But for this particular case. What were the actions of both Ikšķiles and Jelgava municipalities that we are talking about today? Izkile Municipality took the first political decision, which the Minister did not stop. And then... According to which documents would the municipality then lead? The Saeima took a decision, but it was not a law, and this decision does not set out the procedure, the manner in which the municipality could try to ascertain its opinion. There is no explanation. What is the direction of the municipality? The municipality looks at the regulations of the law. Latvia has ratified the European Charter of Local Authorities. And there's this Article 5... Article 5 And Article 5 there is one case as it has been recorded, but paragraph 5 of the Constitutional Court judgment is one of the rare points, which also has an explanation. And that is exactly how the country is shaping these reforms. The Constitutional Court also recognised that this decision should be adopted by the Saeima. And no one doubts that. But there is an explanation of how we reach this decision. Regarding the involvement of municipalities... Of course, we can talk about it... This Article 5 of the European Charter for Local Government states that this can happen if there is scope for referendums... referendums, but in the absence of such a law, this should be done by bringing it as closely as possible to the referendum procedure. And try to do it in a way that. — Dep. ( K. Feldman's intermediate call.) The decision will be taken directly by representatives of the local community. Yesterday at the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit, Gunārs Kūtris, the former President of the Constitutional Court, was invited as an expert. He was the one who took these decisions of the Constitutional Court, to which the Minister referred. He explained very significantly and justified the fact that the municipalities had such rights. All the more... trying to say exactly... trying to determine precisely the population of the territory in question. In my opinion, Ikšķile Municipality and Jelgava Municipality had taken such initiatives quite legitimately. I'm surprised that, given that... they're not any old... The Minister has even assessed judgements of the Constitutional Court... So how could one miss such a rather significant judgment of the Constitutional Court, who talks about the rights of the Minister?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. In this case, the Municipality of Ikšķile has also addressed... will appeal to the Constitutional Court and, as we also spoke in the Commission, this dispute, which is right, which is not true... It is likely that in both of these cases the Constitutional Court will decide. Personally, I will apologise to the Minister and also to you, Members of the Saeima, for delaying your time if I am wrong. The question is, what will the Minister do if he has made a mistake in this matter. I believe that the Constitutional Court will decide in favour of these respective municipalities. The Minister is indeed wrong and it is very easy to read from those documents. I think so. And I think that's the court... Hopefully, it will quickly lead to some result. But I'm all the more concerned about the fact that the minister... Well, that's his right, but... in its own way, combat these municipal initiatives. I don't know what the results of these surveys will be, no one knows. There were 95 percent of those who currently disagree with the Minister's offer. More... Nearly half of the population of Ikšķile municipality participated in this survey, physically went to it. But how will this be further developed in this case... I think that we need to be very precise and that we need to formulate this approach, and then the Minister must come with his own vision, his own formulation of how such population surveys should be conducted by clearly telling local authorities... In my opinion, a research centre “SKDS” survey or something... it is exposed to very many risks. Very many risks! How will it be controlled if they are indeed residents of the district in question who express their views on this? The issue of this reform as such. As mentioned on behalf of the Request Commission, on 27 May the Minister will be going to consult local governments. Yesterday, in the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit, we heard clearly from VARAM officials... There was no minister, there was no political representation, but we heard clearly from VARAM officials that there were no figures at all; there are only a few figures for the allocated budget (500 thousand are studies alone or they are still there). But what people want to hear - what will be the impact of this reform on the area? You will go to the municipalities, you will speak without offering any vision of the issues that really interest them. In my opinion, you are moving a little hasty and too fast. As I have already mentioned, in support of the request, I think it is quite right that the municipalities form surveys and the Ministry should promote them even more. But such a clear resistance... I think you're going on such a very dangerous track right now. Because if you continue to fight in this way the local authorities' initiative in trying to find out their views on this issue, you will find that this will no longer be a referendum by local authorities, you will come to the point that it will already be a referendum by the whole country on this issue. I think that would be the worst thing that can happen. But the implementation of such a policy can lead to this. However, I call for this request to be supported as a whole by the Saeima. Once again, my fellow Members, I will personally apologise to the Minister if I am wrong. S. Riekstins: “Tell everyone!” ), but I ask a question... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “You’re already lying!” ) and also all other colleagues (interim.) ... My question is: what will the Minister do if he is wrong? ( Internouncing call.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U59	The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U60	Dear colleagues, According to current legislation, municipalities may clarify the opinion of residents in a lawful manner. Sociological surveys, public consultations, as well as various meetings, can organise and clarify citizens’ views. This is not prohibited. However, what Ikšķile Municipality, including Jelgava Municipality, has done is essentially a clear deception of the population, because these surveys basically resemble a referendum where the population... apparently a decision is made... that they take a binding decision that can determine the territory of the municipality in its own way. It is, in my opinion, a deliberate, perhaps politically motivated misleading society. As Mr Staķis has also pointed out, the decision to carry out an ATR must be taken by the Saeima. This is a joint decision by the Saeima, which we all made together. In this way, the right is not currently defined for municipalities that it is possible to decide whether or not to designate a territory, to add another territory to itself or to another territory. It is very important to understand that. I would also like to remind Mr Valaiņa of a very important fact. Since 11. The Parliament of the Saeima shall have a draft law on referendums of local governments. But you can't understand why so far... In the previous term, too, it has been counterproductive. The Latvian Municipal Union is opposed, the Association of the Great Cities of Latvia is opposed, and others - Members, local authorities - are opposed. I would like to quote from the previous year... when there was a debate about whether local governments should be allowed to hold local referendums. The Head of the Latvian Local Government Union stated that the adoption of the law would lead to even greater regulatory burden for the municipality. I quote: ‘I do not know any time a municipality would have needed such a law.’ ( Internouncing call.) Viktors Valainis (Applause) At the meeting, it was suggested that only the adoption of the law would cause the people to seduce and that no tangible result would be lost. I have a question, colleagues - what are you defending? Do you defend local government leaders in local governments or do you really have citizens' interests? ( Internouncing call.) Everything shows the opposite. The largest public consultation will take place in the history of Latvia, more than 100 consultations will take place in the municipalities of Latvia throughout the summer, starting from next week. The opinion of the citizens will be heard, the views of the municipal members will be heard, the general opinion of the public on how we can better implement the reform will be heard. The public is invited to actively participate in this process so that the reform can be carried out in the highest possible quality and achieve its desired goal, so that citizens in Latvia receive the best possible quality of services. I call for this request to be rejected. ( The box “Yes! ”) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U61	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U62	Two themes why Juris Pucem is wrong. One is legal, the other is philosophical. I'll start with legal law. So the main argument why the minister... Minister Juris Pūce says that his decision should have been made because the public law entity is allowed to do only what is permitted by law. In theory Juris Pūce says correctly, but there is one small “but” - Juris Pūce is wrong, using this argument to stop surveys of the population. In particular, an entity governed by public law is allowed to do what is prescribed by law if it produces legal effects. In particular, the population survey does not have legal consequences. Consequently, this principle of public law is not applicable. I will give you an example. I'll take Yuri Puce as an example. No law states that Minister Puce has the right to go and speak on television. If we take the same analogy as Juris Pūce, then it happens that the public-law entity – the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development – has no right to go and represent its opinion on television, because the law does not provide it. However, such an argument, by its very nature, is illogical because such a right is due to the fact that speaking and expressing opinions do not have legal consequences. As regards population surveys, the principle that only what is permitted by law is allowed in the area of public law is therefore not applicable. This principle applies only if the activity in question produces legal effects or legal consistency. Second example: You can punish someone if the law specifically says so. If the law has not said so, then you can't do it. Therefore, from the point of view of legal logic and legal theory, Juris Pūce’s argument is unfounded... what Juris Pūce actually used as the main motivation. That is from the legal point of view. On the philosophical side. Juris Pūce represents the Development/Par! party . ‘ Development/About!’ is a party that calls itself a liberal-oriented organisation. As I understand it, liberal values... This means that such an organisation defends the diversity of views. The diversity of opinion does not begin or end with the question of gay marriage. The diversity of views is any issue, so also the issue of administrative territorial reform. Also, a view that may not like Development/About! . And for “development / for!” as a liberal organisation should defend the right to express different views. And by the end. The legal way is precisely to allow for opinions that do not have legal consequences. Because the law, no law, does not state that expressing opinions is a decision in the field of public law... Thus, the argument put forward by Juris Pūce concerning the area of public law, which allows only what is permitted by law, is, in fact, unlawful, because it does not have legal effects. That is what I wanted to say. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U63	The name of Member Dace Bluke.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U64	Hello, honourable Members! In a democratic country, public participation is one of the pillars and freedom of expression is enshrined in our Constitution. Local governments may, and they need to clarify the views of their citizens, but I would like to remind you what the Ombudsman Juris Jansons says about this particular case of Izķile, whose petitioners are leading to the President of Latvia. Juris Jansons says on April 26 in the Latvian News: “If the municipality wants to find out the opinion of the population in the form of a poll, it is not acceptable that the survey is actually formed as elections, organising it as a vote, thus creating a false impression of a referendum for the population. ... it is not permissible for de iure to be referred to as a survey, but de facto it is a referendum which the municipality is not entitled to organise.’ The decision of the Ikšķile to address the Constitutional Court is only to be welcomed, so that the court also decides whether the Minister and the Ombudsman or the heads of the municipality are right. We are Members and not Judges, so I call for this request not to be supported. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U65	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “You’re sorry to come?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U66	Colleagues, I was particularly pleased, however, that some things were mentioned by the Parliamentary Secretary of VARAM. With regard to these municipal referendums. Of course, the draft law is still in charge of the commission, and we seem to be the only ones who have put forward proposals. I also submitted, as did VARAM, and we will continue the discussions. But it is quite interesting that this bill is already 12. The Saeima was ready to adopt the final reading for the law to enter into force. Here, in the Saeima, there was a very big bit when we received directly a letter from the VARAM calling for this draft law not to be adopted. When all the discussions had been concluded, at the last minute it was for the VAR that removed the draft law from the agenda, calling for it to be redeployed. Therefore, the accusations, I think, are in your own direction that there is no such a draft law at the moment. Get to know that letter! It was from VARAM, get to know! You represent this Ministry. With regard to what you said, that... Looks like a referendum. These surveys make it very clear that they are surveys. The municipalities perceive it in every way that they are surveys, and no one doubts that decisions are taken by the Members of the Saeima and no one else. The Saeima, in its previous reform, had established by law the arrangements for organising these surveys. There is no such procedure at present. What you said about sociology... Such a procedure has not been written down by law anywhere. That's your interpretation. Regarding how the municipality should act. As I said, there are other documents. There is a European Charter for Local Government, Article 5 of which makes it clear that local authorities need to bring them as closely as possible to the referendums in order to make the matter simple and not to make it any piece of documents. If you are talking about public surveys, then it is completely on other issues, public surveys of territorial planning are in a completely different context... the question asked. That's, people come to meetings, there's a lot of questions... but such issues, as confirmed yesterday by the former President of the Constitutional Court at the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit, which took a decision on the previous reform... These surveys should also be organised in such a way that citizens in the county concerned participate in them and that the matter is as simple as possible. Citizens must not be asked difficult questions. But the problem is that at the moment it is not ready to get involved in difficult discussions. You simply have no information. You said yesterday to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit: let us wait for the World Bank study! Oh, my gosh! And then they will answer us what the benefits of our reform will be. That's funny! Colleagues, you are poorly prepared for these negotiations, and I think that all Members will have the opportunity in the future to obtain proof of this... I think this is not the only conversation here in the Saeima on this matter. I think there will be requests on other topics as well. I will repeat on this point, Mr Bondara, specifically to you - your representative, the Minister you have put forward, but it is wrong.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U67	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U68	Mr. Valains! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “Yes!” ) What are you defending? ( The internexion: “The people! ”) ) I have information that in one of these two municipalities (Interface: “Do not talk to the grass!” ) about which you... Hold on and fight... to a person who has not participated in this, I don't know, survey... because it was possible to participate in the survey both on the spot and electronically (Interface) ... The question was asked: “Tell me why have you not expressed your opinion?” ( Insight: “How did he know? ” ) Yes, how did he know, or how did they know? When they voted electronically, they saw the name and the result of the vote. And then, in the municipality, Mr. Valaiņš, the witch hunt began: “You have not acted as we wanted!” That's what you're defending. Who's wrong here? ( Milestones.) Colleagues, I call on you not to support this request. Because what has happened is not democratic, it is unacceptable. And in general, if it were to happen in elections, then the national security authorities would have something to say and do. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “Go through these elections! A barrack like that!’ ) Let us vote 'no'! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U69	The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U70	Hello, colleagues! In her speech, colleague Aldis Gobzems addressed the legal aspects of what it is... what a municipality may do and what a municipality may not do as a public authority. I have to say, the functions of the municipality are laid down in the Law “On Municipalities”. And there is no word about the fact that municipal functions include the establishment of a territorial division of the state. It is a function that is intended for the Saeima. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “But no one will argue about it!” ) Only the Saeima can decide on the territorial division of the State (Dep. R. Lochmele-Lunova’s intermediate call. which are the subject of these surveys. Therefore, given that this survey is carried out on a function that is not part of the functions of the municipality, it can also be considered as a waste of municipal funds, as the municipality intervenes in matters which are limited to the decisions of the Saeima. This violates the principle of separation of power. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “The Constitutional Court will tell who is right!” ) Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U71	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U72	Colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, any administrative reform, even very well thought out, very perfect and necessary by the state, will cause resistance in some people (logically, something will change in life). Even if its changes are absolutely necessary, state needs! The pressure on the reform would have been in any case. Of course, Parliament is what will decide on the reform. No survey will change any regions in Latvia. We all understand this, both in substance and in law. In my opinion, this is a huge mistake: to deal with administrative reform early on with all that we can. And I think that this legal suffocation on whether individual regions will be able to express their non-binding decision and make a poll even if they are in some way wrong gives them completely wrong inertia in terms of reform. And the other thing I want to say. I hope that such cases - perhaps someone else will do some kind of questioning - will not distract us from the main debate on what is right state governance in Latvia as a result of administrative territorial reform. In my opinion, this is not a question today. But... I would just like to add that we will make a huge mistake if the map that is now being offered is also accepted. And not because... Let's not rule out... At the moment, there is something about that: either you support this and then you are in favour of reform, or if you do not support this exactly, then you are against it. It's not! I personally support administrative reform. It is absolutely vital, but I think we are making an error in creating single-level municipalities, because it will not solve... neither democracy nor effective governance. In the 1930s there were also two levels in Latvia. The Commission for Sustainable Development has just been in Poland and has also spoken a lot about this issue. They also have two-level municipalities with an appointed Prefect elected, by the way, to the second level. This is the level at which we plan serious infrastructure, European funds and so on. I simply think that, such as to say, legal suffocation on, in my opinion, a secondary issue - someone could or could not express his opinion and in what form - creates resistance, deflects from the most important thing, namely to put Latvia in order so that we can manage it effectively and allow it to flourish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U73	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U74	In a way, my colleague Didzis Schmidt has already begun what I wanted to add to. I think one of the problems of our Parliament... not just in parliament, but in general... that those in power and those making decisions... And we are all human beings, both those in power and those in opposition... may be wrong. The problem is that, at a time when it is wrong, we do not recognise our error and in such a way as to make it possible to sort out a conflict situation, but we insist on the fact that our error is not a mistake. Everything is absolutely right. My colleague Didzis Schmidt described very precisely the fact that we are now engaged in an issue that actually concerned the whole of society, because I am also in favour of administrative territorial reform. I am also against the fact that it will be the creation of single-level municipalities, but there must be two-level municipalities... that we should all contribute to the debate on what reform will be, rather than denying that the Minister has prohibited municipalities from making questionnaires that have no legal consequences. What is the result of all this? In fact, the Minister by his own actions is already creating a conflict situation and making it much more difficult... It is much more difficult to get to an effective reform. After all, we all want reform here in Parliament to be the best possible. What would change if Minister Puce came and said: “Yes, I was wrong in this matter. I do not want to go to confrontation with the municipalities in the future; I am aware that there will be municipalities with a different view. That is the reform plan. We are only discussing this plan!” I think this is a huge mistake. And I think that it is also, to some extent, a matter of political culture, to which we are accustomed when we are in power. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. ( K. Feldman's intermediate call.) Like, for example, the UK could simply climb into a tribunal and say in a humane way: “Yes, we were wrong. ‘ 3 × 500’ we could not implement, it was a false pre-election promise.’ The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Feldman: “But why is it wrong?” ) And it would be humanely much more understandable than climb into a platform and yell on me or someone else. It would be much more humane and more understandable, because we can all make mistakes, including Minister Puce or the JIP with our promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U75	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Panel? No, no. So let's vote. Please call me! We will vote for a Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Armands Krauze, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Alda Gobzema, Julia Stepanenko, Raimonds Bergmanis, Janina Jalinska, Gundars Dūklavs, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pūcem, on the action of the Minister in suspending the activities of the municipal poll in Izkiles and Jelgava municipalities! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The request is rejected. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft Act concerning the Protocol Amending the Convention on International Civil Aviation (Article 50(a)) and the Protocol Amending the Convention on International Civil Aviation (Article 56), second reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U76	Dear President, Dear colleagues, We work with document number 920 The draft law was examined by the Foreign Affairs Commission. We did not receive any proposals. We supported the draft law within the commission. I call on you to support this in the second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U77	Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on the amendment to the Convention on International Civil Aviation (Article 50(a)) and the protocol on the amendment to the Convention on International Civil Aviation (Article 56) for the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law “On International Treaties of the Republic of Latvia”, third reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U78	We work with document number 921. The draft law “Amendment to the Law “On International Treaties of the Republic of Latvia”” was also examined by the Foreign Affairs Commission before the third reading. We did not get any proposals. I invite you to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U79	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On International Treaties of the Republic of Latvia” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U80	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U81	On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U82	Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! There are a number of draft laws which we will look at at at third reading and which relate to the introduction of a single tax account. The first of these is the draft law ‘Amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Act’. Three proposals from the Legal Bureau have been received. 1. is the proposal of the Legal Office. Technical. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U83	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U84	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technical. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U85	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U86	And 3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is a clarification of the transitional provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U87	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U88	Consequently, I also call for support to be given to all draft legislation at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U89	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Law” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Corporate Income Tax Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U90	No proposals have been received for the third reading of the draft law. I call for support at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U91	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Corporate Income Tax Law” in the third, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law “On Lot and Gambling Tax and Tax”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U92	This draft law is also without new proposals. I call for support at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U93	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Lot and Gaming Fee and Tax” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electricity Tax”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U94	There are also no new proposals for third reading of this draft law. I invite you to support it!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U95	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electricity Tax” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U96	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U97	On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U98	There are no new proposals for third reading. I call for support for the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U99	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U100	This draft law contains one proposal of a technical nature from the Legal Bureau: a transitional provision specifying what has been supported by the Commission. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U101	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U102	Please also support the whole of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U103	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U104	There is one proposal from the Legal Office which provides for the payment of the tax, not within 20 days, but within 23 days. It is also supported by the Commission. I call on Members to support them.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U105	Members are in favour. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax" in the third, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U106	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U107	Thank you. On the agenda - draft law on Amendments to the Saeima Election Law, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission – Member Dace Bluķe.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U108	Hello, Members! No proposals were received after the second reading. I call for support at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U109	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Saeima Election Law, third, final, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U110	Thus, the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” at first reading. The issue relates to non-compliance with the regulation on electronic recording of information on the site. In fact, the issue is amendments which provide for serious penalties if electronic records are not implemented. I would like to clarify in more detail. At the end of 2017, electronic recording of working time on construction sites was introduced as an additional tool to reduce misreported hours worked in employer reports. The aim was to reduce and systemically address the problem of about 40 percent of construction workers working part-time. The Legal Commission had discussions about this, had both a supportive view and the opposite opinion. The main discussion on this issue was that the sanctions in question were excessive. They were also considered adequate. The fact, the main arguments, which come from the construction sector, are as follows: an electronic work record-keeping regime should not become a place that is... The building site is by nature not a kite, where the main thing is to count how many minutes you have been on the construction site, because electronic time accounting system is just an extra tool. This is not a basic tool, but an additional tool. It is not essential to list how many seconds, minutes or hours have been worked, but whether or not the staff member in question is working at the facility. And that's why? The construction site is a living organism, and employees many times a day go out and enter the construction site. But, as I said, it must not be turned into a Catholic regime. However, primary construction is a quality building rather than a penalty for an empty card. This was the opinion of the organisations representing the construction sector, which was expressed in the Legal Commission. In particular, the purpose of this amendment, which should be discussed in second reading as well, is that the object of the control of the electronic time accounting system is not the most important, but the most important are the unfair companies, which the State Revenue Service must identify systemically, analysing all specific large data. In other words, the most important thing is not whether an employee has forgotten to put on a card... or that in large objects where, for example, thousands of employees work, where there is always movement, several entry and exit gates... that there will be an objective technical problem at all times... Rather, it is important to determine whether a given employee was, let us say, registered for three or six months as a taxable person and whether he was actually working there technically... Consequently, the question of which second reading should be the subject of a discussion is whether the proposed regulation is proportionate to the level of penalties for other similar infringements, because the accounts also record the employees concerned. This was the discussion at first reading of the draft law at the Legal Commission. The Legal Commission was conceptually in favour of continuing these amendments. I call on Parliament to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U111	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U112	4 June
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U113	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 4 June this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U114	Hello, colleagues! In the budget and financial (tax) commission we have reviewed and supported the adoption of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service” for the first reading. The purpose of the amendments is to improve the work of the State Revenue Service. One of the objectives is to strengthen the right of the State Revenue Service to process personal data, to carry out the classification of data in regulatory enactments for the provision of tasks specified in SRS. It is also necessary to supplement the law with an article, which states that the SRS has the right to request and receive free information from state and municipal institutions in the performance of its assigned tasks. The amendments provide for strengthening the right of the SRS to organise various information events and educational competitions. The SRS is actively implementing the "Advising First" principle and intends to continue to focus on information and learning work. In the opinion of SRS, these rights need to be strengthened by law. The amendments also provide for the strengthening of the role of the SRS under the supervision of public benefit organisations. Given that the status of a public benefit organisation entitles donors to tax relief, it is necessary to provide for an assessment of the information in the process of granting and monitoring the status in order to determine whether the activities of associations, foundations and religious organisations are in line with the nature of the public benefit organisation's activities. Amendments to the law provide for improvement of the convoy procedure of persons arrested and arrested and specify other activities necessary for improvement of the work of the SRS, for example, grant the right to carry out physical inspection of goods. The amendments also provide for requirements for employees in the State Revenue Service for perfect reputation and loyalty. In order to ensure trust in officials at particular risk of corruption, it is important that SRS officials have a good reputation. Until now, some institutions in the public service have introduced a requirement of good repute for applicants. These are also suggested by the State Revenue Service. In the Commission, the draft law has been supported and I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U115	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U116	Colleagues! I would like to say that these are very important amendments to improve the work of the SRS. Perhaps not every single point, but in general, these amendments are encouraged by the new SRS manager Ieva Jaunzeme, and they are developed under her leadership. We have, today, criticised a large number of young and old governments there. But on this point, I would like to stress the system that the previous government has set up in the selection of senior officials. Because it is in this professional procedure that Ieva Jaunzeme was chosen. It shows not only her quality, but this procedure also enabled the Karina Government to accept this candidacy and confirm, showing that we can, without much political influence, appoint the highest officials of the country... And we can also learn from this system, improve it and introduce it for those officials who need to be approved by the Saeima. One of the amendments that this new draft law envisages also concerns officials... the quality of its own staff. The SRS asks for an opportunity to assess the reputation of employees when recruiting them. This is very important because only honest employees will be able to fight the tax payers that the SRS needs to work with and carry out their professional duties. Another amendment that I would like to highlight today is the possibility requested by the SRS to analyse the data at their disposal so that, automatically from the many data, unfair taxpayers can be selected and cases that should be further investigated. SRS is one of the largest state institutions in Latvia and one of the most critical. We will still have to make a lot of changes to the SRS in order to achieve our goal of being honest with businessmen and citizens, but to take a hard look at the schemers and the deliberate offenders. I therefore call for support for the law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U117	I closed the debate. Is there any more to be added on behalf of the Commission? No, no. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U118	The deadline for submitting proposals is 13 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U119	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 13 June this year. On the agenda - draft law on the implementation of the multilateral convention on the prevention of tax base reduction and profit shifting measures in relation to tax conventions, first reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U120	Good afternoon! We work with document number 701. This draft law is linked to the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, or, as we know, to the OSCE. The aim is to ensure compliance of tax treaties concluded by Latvia with the requirements of the minimum standard included in the package of approved tax base reduction and profit transfer measures, which is relevant to tax treaties. Latvia fully supports efforts to combat tax evasion and aggressive tax planning at both global and European Union level. When choosing such mechanisms of application, it shall be ensured that the... the provisions of the relevant tax treaties are not amended or replaced. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined and supported the draft law. On behalf of the Commission, I call on you to support this at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U121	Please call me! We will vote on the draft law on the implementation at first reading of the Multilateral Convention for the Prevention of Tax Base Reduction and Profit Shifting Measures in respect of Tax Conventions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U122	30 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U123	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 30 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, second reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Janina Jalinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U124	Hello, honourable colleagues! 11 proposals were received at the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission on the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”. These proposals concern mainly tobacco products and soft drinks, which were also the most debated. 1. - a proposal from Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U125	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U126	2. - the proposal from Members Andra Skride, Ilmar Durish and Inese Voika. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U127	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Andris Flyre.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U128	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, The essence of our proposal is to introduce a differentiated excise duty on sweetened soft drinks, based on the sugar content of the drink. ( The Room Noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) Let me explain why. Data from clinical studies show that today both children and adults consume a disproportionate amount of sugar directly by means of sweetened drinks. Children eat a quantity of sugar that is not even acceptable to an adult and that goes beyond the standards defined by the World Health Organization! Most, actually 50 percent, of the carbohydrates we take directly with the sweetened drinks... in a masked form. And carbohydrates - alongside salt and unsaturated fatty acids - are exactly the risk factor that actually leads to obesity, diabetes, myocardial infarction. Just in May, the respected medical journal JAMA on the effect factor... Impressive factor... 47... a study was published that (Noise in the hall. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) If 10 percent or more of the kilkalories taken per day are taken with sweetened drinks, this increases not only the risk of disease, but also the risk of mortality. In particular, the relative risk of death from cardiovascular diseases increased by 44 percent, while the overall risk of death increased by 14 percent. These data are statistically significant. On the other hand, if the consumption of sweetened drinks was reduced to five percent of the amount of kilocalories consumed per day, a significant reduction in mortality was achieved. In the same magazine, JAMA recently published a second article assessing the way in which those countries, cities where such a differentiated tax has already been introduced, have taken place. For example, in 2017, Philadelphia, USA, was the second city in the USA, where an increased excise duty on sweetened drinks was introduced. This investigation showed that this led to a significant decrease in consumption of sweetened drinks. We can reduce the consumption of sweetened drinks to up to 20 percent, which in the long term will reduce health spending... reduce expenditure... Illnesses. Unfortunately, we, especially children, use these drinks every day. It's not like we remember... I just figured out the film "Love Does Not Work", where Emil and his sister drank at the Ide Fair... wanted to live green and drank the sugar water... We often use the sweetened bubble waters every day. Thank you. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U129	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U130	Good afternoon! I will ask you not to support and explain why. First of all, by nature. I hear from the coalition all the time that taxation (and this is not a criticism) will change once. Prepare, analyze and change once. At the same time, we see that it is probably not a single time, and it is probably not the only tax we want to change it at the same time. That's the first thing. The second thing. I understand very well what Mr Skride is talking about. This is an objective problem. There is, in fact, no room for dispute. But I think it's a mistake to think that a product is a problem, not a lifestyle is a problem. Nothing will happen if someone drinks a glass of Iļguciems kvass once a week or once a month. If they do this every half an hour, of course this will have very negative consequences. The next thing that seems to me to be the most important and which I am calling for a more serious discussion with public organisations, because if we compare... I understand that we often associate these as sweetened drinks with imported products from large multinational corporations, such as Pepsi-Cola, Coca-Cola and so on. We are also doing the right thing, of course. But there are our own malt drinks, there are our own kvass. Just understand one thing: what will happen de facto if such a tax is introduced. The prices of drinks from multinational corporations will remain exactly where they are, but our producer's prices will rise. Because it is not possible to compare the market in which our quass producers work with the market in which Coca-Cola works. Coca-Cola Latvia does not have a statistical unit at all, the Latvian market does not appear in the annual report. They can hold the price they want here. I agree with the example of America. It is good for America because there our quasi does not compete with American drinks, but if you look at how it will be here... the quass will no longer be available until the coss is as usual. That is why I support the direction and idea in principle, but this is not a mechanism for achieving results. I call on you to think about it and at least to have a thorough discussion, perhaps also to explore something, not to undermine your producers with a revolutionary conviction without, in principle, touching imports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U131	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U132	Dear colleagues, I will also call for this proposal not to be supported. And I'll explain why. I have a very well understood desire to improve our public health. This is to be welcomed, but I think that with this proposal the applicants have entered the ditch in terms of both logic and consistency. If the proposers believe - and they are entitled to see it - that tax policy can change people's habits, then it is not understandable why the honourable members of the coalition, who are also applicants, have constantly rejected our opposition proposals to improve by the same method for public health and well-being, namely to reduce VAT on basic food. Moreover, the basic food we have listed in the draft law on reduced VAT does not contain any additives, any sugars. These are yogurts without sugar, milk - unsweetened, with a 10-day shelf life. Our proposal is to give way to healthier food. You rejected it. So you do not believe that consumption of some products can change depending on tax policy. On the other hand, it is now up to us to try to change this way. The second is consistency. As my colleague, Mr Schmidt, has already mentioned, it is not understandable why you are moving the tax increase without discussing it in the relevant Zakatistova Development Committee. Because what we hear again... Every time we try to offer you the introduction of reduced VAT, we hear it: “Wait, wait, don’t! We in the Zacatistow Committee will discuss all this." This week, we had a proposal on reduced VAT, we reminded you once again of this, and - and Mr Zakaistov will not be allowed to lie - there was the same discussion that it must be assessed: 'We must assess all the risks, all the 'for' and 'for', and only then... Well, without you, we'll make that decision." What is it now? Have you assessed this in the relevant committee? Are you not... Is that so? The third thing I want to say. There is a principle of good governance. I believe that this principle, too, has been violated by these proposals. Because, as we can see, the letter sent to the Commission on 20 May from the Federation of Food Enterprises of Latvia states that this proposal has not been discussed either with the industry (their arguments have not been heard!) No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, As I understand from its letter, no name was given to either the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Finance. That's why I don't understand... And the commissions... decision - without listening to the ministries and sectors involved, to act blindly, quickly. And finally, such a proposal. I also want our public health to improve, so that children do not drink these harmful drinks in litres. Then introduce a ban on the sale of these sugar drinks to minors! Shut it down! Let the children... Because if children do not understand that cigarettes are harmful, for example, they do not understand as well that sugar is harmful. But you don't. You try to go another way. If you want not to improve public health by means of this proposal, but perhaps to supplement the treasury, then that would be the case: simply ask for money from all the children's savings boxes straight away, straight away. The money that the children would have spent on the Coles. Let them bring them straight to the State Treasury! And the last proposal. Put it the same way on cigarettes... not that harmful, but that every sant... Every five cent goes to the government! And then maybe he won't buy any more collages and all of them sugary drinks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U133	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U134	Hello, very honourable Chairman of the Saeima! Very honourable Members! I would like to begin by responding to what Mrs Stepanenko said. Our aim is not to ban anything. Our aim is not to ban the use of these sweetened drinks. Our goal is completely different – to make producers and producers in Latvia think about products and recipes to create a healthier product for society. I would like to say that our proposal has already had a certain effect, because I think we already had a very valuable first meeting with the Latvian Food Trade Association and some representatives of the producers of large drinks. I think that together, once again and again, we sit down at the negotiating table, we will achieve a logical, good solution for Latvian society. The producers are already telling us that they are thinking about creating new recipes so that there is less sugar in the beverages. I would just like to say one figure that the Ministry of Health presented at the meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Dear colleagues, 2014 figures show that 28 percent of 11-year-old boys are overweight. These are basically young children who are already overweight. What will happen to these people when they grow up? We know that the tendency of overweight increases with age. This is a story of a very large number of chronic and incurable diseases, which Mr Skride has also mentioned, of very well-founded studies, of how harmful it is to overtake sugar in the body. The question is, why are you drinking? We were asked by manufacturers: “Why don’t you get here like yogurts and other products that contain sweet... So, a lot of sugar?’ With a drink in a very short time, you can take a lot of sugar without even feeling it! You try to take a glass of water, containing 200 ml of liquid, and add 20 grams of sugar. You will see how unnaturally sweet it is. But there's about that sugar in the And we don't even think that the drink is very sweet. So the story is that we take a disproportionate amount of sugar. The body has to deal with all this. It's a little bit about physiology. I would also like to say now that we have almost agreed with producers that this law... or, let's say, the entry into force of this rule... a compromise could be reached... and could be extended. We will certainly have discussions about the amount of tax and perhaps also about the rate of tax, the percentage of sugar-containing drinks. Of course, both the Ministry of Health and Development/About! will also not forget other products with high sugar levels. I think that the experience so far has shown us that producers can produce meat products, such as sausages, with less salt content, if society starts to debate this seriously. Dear colleagues, I would like to reject the fact that there would have been no discussion within the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Many interested parties were invited, including from the Ministry of Agriculture. The debate took place. I therefore call for support to be given to this proposal at second reading. By the third reading, we will certainly still work on improving this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U135	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U136	First of all, I congratulate Latvian society on tax increases. Tax increases are possible at any time. The government, of course, does not need much mind there; it can do so all the time. But when it comes to reducing taxes on food, which mainly has a positive effect on local producers, and on healthy food, then, of course, we need time, time, time! Sometime in the future maybe maybe maybe maybe... But the problem is that such an amendment to the law will not make the I therefore emphasise in particular that tax increases do not require much mind. We can all do this very quickly: we will quickly increase all taxes and then think that we will live healthier lives. But this is not the case. With such an amendment to the law, we achieve a lower competitiveness of the local product... local product - Iļguciems kvass, health drink and similar... less competitive vis-à-vis similar import drinks. With this tax increase, we do not achieve the result that people will drink less sweetened drinks. Our task is to achieve a healthier society, and in order to achieve a healthier society where our local producers earn more, we should have looked at this issue in the context of a reduction in VAT on food, which this Parliament has already rejected on several occasions. It is precisely the reduction of VAT on food that means aid to local producers, as it is aid to fresh products. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “This doesn’t mean it!” ) Another thing. If we are talking about a healthy lifestyle, I think that we should not start with tax increases, even though there was really a promise - and here I have to turn to Mr Zakatistov, who has also said about it today from the parliamentary troupe - that all taxes will be assessed and dealt with in a single package, rather than separately what taxes will now be seen. Where you can raise, right there, let's look at all the others sometime later. When talking about these changes, it is important to stress that we should look at the changes in the tax system first and foremost in the context of the question of how to defend our local producers, our national interests, Latvia. That is essential. Such amendments do not protect national interests. If we are thinking of introducing and promoting a healthy lifestyle, then I think we should adopt some other laws. Those that may be very unpopular but should be talked about. For example, closing supermarkets on Sundays to allow people to spend time with their families to shop in small diapers, family shops, and to buy fresh food from our local farmers. I think that it would be much more effective, much more important for us to invest here in an unpopular but necessary public debate about the fact that families do not have to spend Sunday in supermarkets. This would be much more effective than raising the tax on sweetened drinks. The increase in the tax is in fact directly detrimental to Iļguciems kvass, health drink and similar drinks of the domestic product. Such an amendment will not reduce the consumption of sweetened drinks, nor will it prevent children from using sweetened drinks, so we should not start again from the wrong end. We should start with more complex, unpopular solutions, achieve effective results. Public health would then generally improve as well as protect local producers as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U137	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U138	On the one hand, I would like to express my appreciation for Development/About! Members who have thought about how to improve public health, especially children's health. On the other hand, it is not certain whether this is the right method to achieve this result. First. Will this apply to all sweetened drinks or only to some? And will this really achieve this common goal in order to make our society healthier? And here's where I'm divided. I think a more effective method could be to fix a certain percentage of sweetened drinks... what quantities of sweeteners may be present in such drinks at all if we want to take care of public health. The other thing we can do as legislator is to amend the law. It is an initiative that my colleague Romāns Naudins was driving in Valmiera for one school, but which we could direct across Latvia - to ban the placement of coffee machines in schools because of the sale of coffee and various other sweetened drinks to students. These would be certain things that would definitely improve public health and could not be a free space for discussion on whether it is in the interest of a particular producer or not. In this way, we could really clearly demonstrate the objective to be achieved - a greater benefit for our society. Today I call for support for this proposal. But whether to support it in the third reading, that is still a big question.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U139	The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U140	I understand very well the doctor's desire to combat the excessive consumption of sugar in society, especially among children. But, in my opinion, this proposal is a little unthinkable, because how will it change consumer behaviour in reality? This means that often the local product - malt, kvass, health drink (The grass is round.) - will cost more, while some of the Western brought Coca-Cola Zero Sugar with chemical sweeteners will cost less. Consumers will choose the cheapest product that will contain chemical sweeteners. The effects of chemical sweeteners on human health have not yet been clinically fully studied, but I believe that their impact on the human nervous system could be even more harmful than the effects of sugar on human health. As a result, we can support the consumption of another harmful substance in the fight against one harmful substance. It is hardly acceptable, and it will still be redistributed to the market, most likely in favour, I am sorry for the western dandruff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U141	The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U142	I fully join Mr Izalnieks in this matter, but I will only make one rejoinder. Ilmar, you said that Latvian producers are already thinking about new recipes, and that is good. I will withdraw my objection when you give me proof that Coca-Cola will change its recipe because of our decisions; then I will withdraw my objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U143	Name to Member Andris Flyrem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U144	I just wanted to remind you again... It has been discussed that we do not know whether this will reduce the consumption of sugar drinks. I say once again that publications in respectable journals confirm this. In particular, publication in the magazine JAMA in May 2019... When we reduce the consumption of sugary bubbles by 20 percent... I would like to say that we are discussing with producers and are at one negotiating table directly with Latvian producers. I would also like to say that there is already an excise duty on sweetened drinks and it will not increase - there will remain the same price for beverages with a sugar content of between zero and five grams. The price will rise - on average only by three cents - for sweet drinks, but for those who are very sweet drinks, the price will increase by about 20-23 cents. On behalf of public health, I call for this proposal to be supported!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U145	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U146	A short replica. At present, only five Member States of the European Union are subject to excise duty on soft drinks. In 2014, the Kingdom of Denmark abolished excise duty on soft drinks. It was concluded that the application of the duty did not reduce the consumption of non-alcoholic sweetened drinks, while after the abolition of the duty in Denmark, the consumption of those drinks did not increase. What do I mean? It appears that this is a lobby of foreign sweetened drinks, because the only one to be harmed will be the local producer. Traditions of how people buy and what drinks they buy... this tax is not being increased... Maybe Development/About! Can you explain in more detail whether you are currently being plundered by a foreign large corporation that will be the only beneficiary of such an unthinkable increase in taxes that the domestic producer will suffer? Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Skride: “It will be the same for everyone!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U147	Dear colleagues, The debate will continue after the break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name for Member Rihard Kola's statement.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U148	Dear Members of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, I informed you that a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Commission was convened at 12.35. I'm inviting you to come in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U149	Name of Member Janina Kursīte-Pakulė.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U150	Honourable Members! Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Applications at 13.00.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U151	Name of the Saeima Secretary Maria Golubeva. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U152	Has not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Jānis Butāns, Anda Čakša, Sergey Dolgopolovs (Interior call.) - Nikolai Cabanov... I'm sorry, Butane is? Yeah. Nikolai Cabanov, Armands Krauze, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Regina Ločmele-Lunova and Karina Sprūde. ( Subtotal: ‘ Butane is! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U153	Thank you. Interruption until 12.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U154	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax””. Debate on proposal 2. The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U155	Dear colleagues, I come back to this question once again. From this troupe, the proposal promoter argued that food producers have finally also come and enter into dialogue, and something is now happening. Once again, this is really not good practice - with such proposals to bring about chaos and panic in the manufacturing sector. Because what I see from the letters... There are desperate letters from the Federation with a request not to direct this proposal, with a request for a calculation which... I don't know if you have such a calculation or not, but the calculation is not attached anywhere... What is the way in which this proposal will have an impact on the economy. Because probably you haven't even thought about what will happen if any of the manufacturers just fail with this proposal... to continue working. Therefore, it seems very suspicious to me that now, at last, producers have come to us. Why didn't you talk to the manufacturers before this idea came to your mind, and you didn't discuss and calculate everything you submitted? It seems very suspicious to me, colleagues! I call on you not to support... I also call on all colleagues from the opposition, including the Group's INTERPRETATION, not to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U156	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U157	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, I supported this proposal when it was discussed at the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission meeting. That is why I too, at least in part, have the responsibility for the future fate of this proposal. In my view, the proposal is certainly in the right direction. As we were taught at the university, taxation is a language in which the state speaks to the public or, more precisely, to the recipients of income. Consequently, the tax is not a prohibition tool, but rather a means of motivation. This, in my view, is the main quality of the tax, which must be taken into account when considering any amendment to the tax system. This principle is expressed in particular in the case of excise duty. In order to make the words of this language clearer, it is necessary to supplement the proposal for a third reading in order to prevent accusations and suspicions expressed by Members. That's what I'm sure of. Other sweeteners used on the market in sweetened non-alcoholic beverages should also be included in this list of excise substances. Moreover, not only in the drinks of Latvian producers, but also in those mentioned here many times by critics of this proposal. I think that would be sensible, but it would only complement and strengthen the strength of this proposal. And the second thing to do is to provide for a longer deadline for increasing the tax and its gradual introduction... perhaps to increase by one year, in order to allow producers in our country, those who produce sweetened drinks, to get used to this new tax rate and, consequently, to transform their technology, their own production, and to give consumers an opportunity to understand what drinks are better. On all other means, I think the authors of this proposal will say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U158	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U159	Dear colleagues, I would like to completely reject the concerns expressed here that we, the authors of this proposal, including myself, are lobbying the Coca-Cola company that produces Coca-Cola, Fanta, Sprite and other drinks. I looked at the recipe. Drink Coca-Cola - 11 grams sugar in 100 millilitres, Fanta - 12.9 grams, Spire - 13 grams. We are not talking here, of course, about a drink called Coca-Cola Zero, to which a sweetener has been added. I can't find... It is difficult for me to find a drink made in Latvia that has a sugar level as high as Sprite or Fanta. It is not true that this Coca-Cola product will then be tax-free or will be subject to lower taxes than that produced in Latvia. Secondly. I would like to say that the law already provides that beverages that are natural juices or drinks that contain at least 10 percent of natural juices are not subject to taxation. It's now! So in fact, the story is about how to get a producer to think about public health in general and about the money that we spend on a daily health budget to solve the problems of caries for children, to treat diabetes and everything else. And more. As the very last thing I want to say, what is very important. We're already with the manufacturer... Association of drink manufacturers... The Association of Latvian Food Traders has agreed that these norms will enter into force from 1 July 2021. The negotiations have reached such an agreement. I call on us to support and allow us to continue to discuss this point until the third reading. I call for support at second reading for our proposal and for public health to be considered. About society, about the health of our children. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U160	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U161	Colleagues! Those who follow this debate see that this issue is not so clear. Indeed, from various points of view, there may be completely opposite arguments as to why this proposal should or should not be supported. I personally feel that we are eating as healthy a diet as possible and that we are starting to take care of it in good time. Sugar, food sugar, is really a big problem. I think everyone will agree here and nobody will argue about it. We really need to think about how we can make the use of sugar, not only by legislation, but also by other measures, as much as possible, in a way that is proportionate and that minimises the use of the product. I think it is welcome that colleagues are trying, in some way, to address this problem, but it must be admitted that it is a rather immersive and perhaps even childish solution. In this way, it is unlikely that we will be able to cope with this habit. Personally, I will support this proposal because I am interested in continuing the process here in the Saeima, the debate on how we can make nutrition healthier and, in particular, take care of the health of our children. I very much hope that, as a result of this debate, those who really want to deal with these nutritional problems will see that this is very narrow... a narrowly applied instrument, which, when used alone, we can really create more problems than benefits. In concrete terms and very simply: these producers now estimate that with their sweetened drinks they will not be able to compete on the market, they will simply find other solutions. I also had a meeting with these producers of drinks. They said: “It’s very simple! Now there's no sugar, we're gonna use sweeteners instead of sugar, we're gonna put others in... We're going to get around this excise duty, and we're going to make an even more harmful product!' The result will be that our children and we will receive... the public will receive even more harmful drinks. Even more harmful drinks than those you seem to be trying to limit. And that's a problem we should think about. Do you really care about children's health? Then you should think about how it is with all the harmful products... not only with sugar contained in the sweetened... with all trans fatty acids and the like. Use of these products in schools... in the same hospitals... You have just said: yes, children have problems, and also patients have problems. I was in Stradini recently, helping one person to get to this hospital. And you know what I saw there? Almost every corner stands those sweet... all these sales machines that, I'm sorry, shit sells. Patients can buy it calmly. That's, they take the medicine in one place, then go to this machine and buy chocolate panties, sweetened drinks and everything else. Easy! As they say, business over everything! And then we think here that, with these amendments, we will now be bringing our health to an end! So, colleagues, if you really care... I see that this could really be an issue that could be agreed outside political affiliation, both by the coalition and by the opposition. Moreover, we have already had such experience here in the Saeima on the same energy drinks when we managed to reach a common agreement and to adopt restrictive amendments, regardless of political affiliation. As for trans-fat acids and many other things... Colleagues, then take it and solve it systematically! I am referring in particular to Development/About! . Your area now is health, health. Then come with a system solution! I understand that you have finished to throw one such proposal and say, "What are we? How we take care of our health!” That is not, in fact, a matter of concern. At present, it is to some extent a health profile. Take it, please, more systematically... more systematic! I think that your efforts will be to support not only the coalition but also the opposition parties. So my call is, don't stop! Let's start thinking systemically! And there are even more problems that we should think about if we really care about our nation's health. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for this proposal to be supported (Dep. Mr Stepanenko: “Why?” ) and go on. ( From a political group, ‘ Why support?’ ) Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U162	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U163	Hello, dear colleagues! You remember - there was such a leader of our Latvia, Kārlis Ulmanis. He said: “When you drink in the morning tea or coffee, you need to put three spoons of sugar – one from Liepaja, the other from Jēkabpils and the third from Jelgava Sugar Factory.” And it was right because it helped to develop our sugar industry. Now, unfortunately, we do not have any sugar factories. Which sugar do you use? Who has the inscription “Jelgava Sugar” on the sachet? A actually produced by Danes for the time - Dansukker... And that shows the quality of the sugar we use. It's independent... one war you put or two... What is the quality? This is about quality. But what does our Ministry of Health do to improve quality to maintain a healthy lifestyle in Latvia? In fact, I guess nothing. We need to take care of this! For how long have we fought to ban schools from selling all these colorful sugary drinks in kiosk? It's been a long time, and it doesn't trade now. But they traded. And they're harmful. I also drank that harmful cocool, but to be honest, it is not even as harmful a product as other harmful products. The same meat we eat... Maybe it's even more harmful than coke. Coca-Cola has been in existence for almost 130 years. And so far, I can't hear that there would have been any legal proceedings against this company. The athletes also need to take sugar and sometimes even more than normal people because it is an energy product, it is the energy they need. But now it's about being obese children. Yes, many children have a lot of percent, adults have those percentages even more... Why are you, if the children don't understand... Why do you not understand? Movement is life. Yeah. We have the Latvian Sports Veterans-Seniors Union; please come, play up to 95 years of age, we have age group categories for all sports. Then we will not be obese and will be much healthier. We need to promote this: how to organise three sports hours every week in schools. But we're talking and talking for 10 years, we're recording in the sports guidelines, but... Either, maybe from September, maybe not from September. And how many children attend their sports hours? There are many who do not visit because they have a certificate from a family doctor that they cannot attend sports hours. We need to take care of this. But I listened to it for two hours and I can't understand whether you want to fight for a healthy life or just want to collect more taxes. Well, people... No matter how much they pay, people will drink! We increased the price of beer products... with those percentages too, but whether you drink less? Don't I know we produce less? Go to the Vērmanes Garden! Yesterday, today too, tomorrow is a beer festival. Three days in the middle of the week. That's cool! We don't work, but we have a vacation at the beer festival. Like German beer festivals. Weeks in the middle. It's Latvia! So what are we talking about here? We want to... Is that so? I am willing to ban all those harmful products. No, no, no, no, no, no, Then we can say that we are about healthy Latvia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U164	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? Does the rapporteur wish to explain the Commission's views following the debate? No, no. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - a proposal from Members Skride, Drujish and Voika! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 64, for - 13, for - 7. The proposal is supported. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U165	Let's go, let's go. 3. - a proposal from Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U166	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U167	4. - a proposal from Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U168	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U169	5. - a proposal from Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U170	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U171	6. - a proposal from Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U172	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U173	7. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U174	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U175	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U176	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U177	9. - the proposal from Members Andra Skride, Ilmar Durish and Inese Voika. Supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U178	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U179	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard. Partially supported, included 11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U180	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U181	And 11. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U182	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U183	I invite you to support the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U184	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, 3, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U185	The deadline for submitting proposals is 6 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U186	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 6 June this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law on the disposal of real estate for the installation of the state border band of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U187	Colleagues! During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 15 May this year, the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Real Estate for the Installation of the State Border Strip of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation” was reviewed. The draft law provides for the disposal from land owners of real estate or part thereof located at the external land border of the state, to mark in nature the state border zone of the Republic of Latvia, the border zone and the external land border with the Russian Federation, as well as the installation of state border bands, border bar and border indication signs and informational instructions, respecting the respective delegation. Four editorial proposals from the Legal Bureau were submitted to the second reading, which were supported by the Commission. The Legal Commission has supported the second reading, I also call...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U188	No, no! We are on every proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U189	All four are...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U190	No, no. Proposal No 1 so...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U191	1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U192	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U193	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U194	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U195	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U196	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U197	And 4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U198	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U199	I call for the vote on the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U200	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Divestment of Real Estate for the Installation of the State Border Strip of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U201	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 11 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U202	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 11 June this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Civil Service”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Inese Ikstena.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U203	Hello, colleagues! The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has examined the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Civil Service”, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, decided to support the said draft law and to direct it to consideration by the Saeima at first reading. The aim of the draft law is to facilitate the involvement of members of the Diaspora in the civil service by providing for regulation that in the interests of the state, an official may be appointed, for a fixed period, but not more than one year, without an open competition, a person who performs duties in an international organisation of which the Republic of Latvia is a member or with which the Republic of Latvia cooperates, or an institution of a Member State of such an organisation. And the law will enter into force in normal order. Please support the progress of the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U204	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Civil Service” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U205	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 21 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U206	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 21 June this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Aviation”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Arthur Rubik.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U207	Hello, colleagues! We work with document number 938 The committee responsible for the second reading has received four proposals. 1. - a proposal from the Minister of Defence, Mr Pabriks. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U208	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U209	2. - a proposal from the Minister of Defence, Mr Pabriks. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U210	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U211	3. - a proposal from the Minister of Defence, Mr Pabriks. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U212	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U213	And 4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U214	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U215	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U216	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Aviation” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U217	The deadline for submitting proposals is 6 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U218	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 6 June this year. On the agenda - draft law on amendments to the Animal Protection Law, second reading. Member Jānis Urbanovičs on behalf of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. ( Interface: “Ooo! ” Depp. J. Urbanovich leaves his hand. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U219	Dear President, Honourable Members! Let us work on the draft law on "Amendments to the Animal Protection Act". A small preamble must be presented before we start working on each particular proposal. In particular, the commission carefully, once again, looked at all the proposals. Members of the Commission, as one, were grateful to many Members who demonstrated excellent competence in submitting and defending proposals, as well as to a record number of activists and representatives in the field under the supervision of this law. It turns out that animal protection problems are very, very important for a very large part of society. Although its initiators initially envisaged this law as only one of the stages of the codification programme, no one prevented both the public and the Members from submitting improved proposals for certain areas of the regulated sector. We tried to go into each of them in good faith, listening to all experts, specialists and tryners from this field. Unfortunately, we did not manage to find a common denominator for any of these proposals, because there were arguments against each of them, each of them had any opponents. But we have understood that this discussion is important, and we are also grateful to the Ministry of Agriculture, under whose supervision all these issues are under control, that they took the initiative to form a working group and, together with all the stakeholders, including those who have tabled their proposals, to make their amendments, to find the best solution, to calm people and to show exactly how their problems could be dealt with. Now I offer to look at the table. Proposal No 1... It has been withdrawn from the side of Member Zaļe-Gross and Member Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U220	The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U221	The others, from 2 to 6, are in line with what I have just said - that all these proposals are not rejected as invalid, as in the opinion of the Commission, but rather directed towards further work in the working group that I have just been talking about. The Commission therefore allowed it not to support these proposals, from proposals 2 to 6.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U222	We're still... we have to talk about every proposal anyway...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U223	Proposal 2 is therefore not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U224	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U225	3. - Just like that.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U226	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U227	4. - Just like that.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U228	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U229	5. - Just like that.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U230	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U231	6. - Just like that.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U232	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U233	7. - partially supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U234	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U235	8 / 8 - partially supported...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U236	... and included in proposal 9. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U237	Yeah. We did it, we did it! - to do this... Go on. Proposal No 10... Proposals 10 to 40... It's the same story I used to give you at the very beginning. Consequently, 10 have been rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U238	We talked about Amendment 9? Therefore, Amendment 9 is supported by Members. About 10. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U239	Rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U240	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U241	11. - rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U242	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U243	12. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U244	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U245	13. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U246	13 and withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U247	Yeah, thank them. (Laughter) But it's 14. - rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U248	Proposal No 14...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U249	Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U250	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U251	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U252	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U253	16. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U254	Undoed.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U255	Yes, thank you, President.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U256	Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U257	17. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U258	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U259	18. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U260	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U261	19. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U262	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U263	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U264	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U265	19. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U266	21, forgiveness.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U267	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - not supported. I didn't have a page.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U268	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U269	22. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U270	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U271	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U272	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U273	24. - Just like that. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Vote!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U274	Members want to vote on the 24th proposal if? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Yes! Vote!” ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of 24. - Member Bergmanis's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U275	25. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U276	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U277	26. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U278	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U279	27. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U280	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U281	28. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U282	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U283	29. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U284	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U285	30. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U286	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U287	31. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U288	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U289	32. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U290	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U291	33. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U292	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U293	Dear colleagues, I thank the Commission for its clarification. Indeed, at consensus, I accept that it was very difficult to get to this debate. However, I would like to call on those Members who have tabled these proposals, after this draft law has been moved forward, to re-submit them, in respect of the huge support that civil society has received from a number of our proposals relating to the protection of animals. We should, perhaps in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, maintain our proposals on the legislator's agenda. Especially because part of them relates to a more humane attitude towards animals in our society as a whole and to the protection of animals, which is not just an economic issue or, let us say, a question of putting right the legal environment, but also of the humanitarian values of our society. I will not maintain my proposal now, but we will continue to work on these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U294	Thank you. I closed the debate. Would there be more to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U295	On behalf of the Commission, I can repeat: not because the proposals would be bad, they were rejected, but because they are so good that they need to be carefully examined and committed to by the Ministry of Agriculture. And they will show the initiative by collecting all the authors together.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U296	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U297	33. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U298	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U299	34. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U300	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U301	35. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U302	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U303	36. - not supported. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Vote!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U304	Members shall not object. The 36th proposal wants to be put to the vote? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Yes! Vote!” ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of 36. - Member Bergmanis's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 5, against - 66, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U305	37. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U306	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U307	38. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U308	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U309	39. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U310	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U311	40. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U312	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U313	All the proposals have been examined. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U314	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on animal protection law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 81, for - 1, for - 1. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U315	The Commission proposes June 6.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U316	June?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U317	June.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U318	July? So the deadline for submitting proposals is the sixth...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U319	Six months.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U320	... July ( Intercretion: “June! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U321	6. 6!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U322	July or June? June. So the commission proposes June 6, this year. And the deadline for submitting proposals is June 6, this year. On the agenda - draft law on amendments to the Law on the Food Chain, second reading. Member Jānis Urbanovičs on behalf of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U323	So we are working on the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Food Chain". 1. is the proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Grasberg, which, in essence, provides for the establishment of a more recent regulation in Article 7. The Commission supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U324	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U325	The introduction of the provisions of the newer regulation in Article 3 is also provided for in Article 2. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Grassberg. That is why it has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U326	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U327	Similarly 3. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Grassberg. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U328	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U329	4. - The proposal from Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Grassberg, supported by the commission. This is also linked to the implementation of the European Union regulation in this area.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U330	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U331	Since this proposal has been supported, it is no longer necessary to exclude Article 12, which Mr Grassberg proposes to delete. The Commission has therefore also supported proposal 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U332	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U333	6. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. It's supported. This is also linked to the implementation of the Regulation.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U334	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U335	7. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Grassberg. This results from previous proposals. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U336	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U337	8 / 8 - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Grassberg. Again, the implementation of the regulation... introduction of provisions of a more recent regulation in the framework of the old regulations. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U338	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U339	9. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Grassberg. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U340	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U341	Proposal No 10 is supported precisely because in the past this provision has already laid down... Tensit's in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U342	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U343	Proposal 11 is a editorial correction proposed by our commission, which makes Article 24 clearer, so we also supported our own proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U344	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U345	It is similar with 12. - a proposal from the committee responsible. This is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U346	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U347	And the last one is 13. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Grassberg. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U348	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U349	I call for support to be given to this very well-ordered draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U350	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Food Chain"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U351	Let us expect proposals by 6 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U352	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 6 June this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U353	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Education, Culture and Science examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments”. The draft law has been taken over from 12. The parliamentary term shall be held in accordance with Article 39 of the parliamentary roll. The draft law is necessary to ensure a uniform transition to a decoding system for administrative offences. The composition of administrative offences - according to the actual situation and the purpose of the legal provision - shall be editorially specified in order to prevent unjustified use of grammatical interpretation. 10 proposals have been received by the Commission. The proposal is a proposal from Minister of Culture Daces Melbards. It is a technical proposal which provides for clarification of the name of the responsible authority. The Commission supports and incorporates proposal 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U354	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U355	Proposal 2 is a proposal from Minister of Culture Daces Melbards. It is also, in essence, a technical proposal and provides for a change in numbering, in order to keep the titles of the chapters compatible with the numbering of articles in the draft law. The Commission supports and incorporates proposal 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U356	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U357	3. is a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which is a technical clarification and provides for the preservation of the structure in the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U358	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U359	4. is the proposal of Minister of Culture Daces Melbards, which provides for the approximation of legal terms and avoids the possibility of interpretation. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U360	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U361	5. is a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which is a proposal of a technical nature and provides for the maintenance of the structure of the draft law and the inclusion of the proposal 3 in the corresponding section of the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U362	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U363	6. is the proposal of Minister of Culture Daces Melbards. This provides for the exclusion of Article 30.3, which imposes administrative liability for failure to provide information on the disposal of cultural monuments or the unauthorised storage of state-owned antiques. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U364	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U365	7. is a proposal from the Education, Culture and Science Commission. It is proposed to exclude the second paragraph of Section 30.3 because it duplicates the norms of the Criminal Procedure Law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U366	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U367	8. is the proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which lays down transitional provisions of the law in order to ensure compliance with the principle of continuity at the time when amendments to the law come into force. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U368	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U369	9. is a proposal by the Minister of Culture Daces Melbārdes, which, in essence, does not ensure the principle of continuity of provisions of law. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U370	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U371	10. is a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which provides for the exclusion of proposals adopted at first reading relating to the entry into force of the law, thus ensuring the possibility of transitional provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U372	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U373	On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U374	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U375	The deadline for submitting proposals is 6 June this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U376	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 6 June this year. Honourable Members! Members Strīķe, Dzintars, Pavļuts, Kaimiņš and Latkovskis ask for a break by 14:45 a.m. on the agenda item 34. Do Members have objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Then we must vote. Please call me! Let us vote for a break before 2:45 a.m. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 61, for - 26, for - 1. So a break is announced until 2:45 p.m. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name of member of the Saeima Maria Golubeva to read the results of the registration as soon as they have been prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U377	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Anda Čakša, Sergej Dolgopolovs, Nikolai Kabanovs, Māris Kučinskis, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Juris Rancāns (intermediate call.) ... Rancan's there, huh? Karina Sprūde, Juta Strīķe (Interface.) ... Yes. Normund Gun? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Okay!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U378	Interruption until 2:45 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U379	Honourable Members! We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. Changes tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau Members Krauze, Valainis, Dūklavs, Bergmanis, Koite, Vacāns and others are asking for the draft law on amendments to the electoral law of the European Parliament to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. On the agenda - reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the Member Krauze, Valaiņa, Dūklava, Bergmana, Daugke, Vucanas and other draft laws submitted by the Parliament, ‘Amendments to the European Parliament Election Law’, be referred to the National Administration and Municipal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Members Strike, Neighbours, Dzintars, Paviluts, Zakaitistovs requests a break from agenda item 47 until 4 p.m. I understand that it is planned to convene a meeting of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government. Do Members object to the adversarial of the adversarial? There is no objection. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name to Member Uldis Budric.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U380	Dear colleagues, The extraordinary meeting of the National Administration and Municipal Commission will be in three minutes' time in the committee's meeting room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U381	Consequently, the meeting of the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government will take place immediately. Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U382	Dear Members of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, In five minutes' time, we will continue to divide the issue about the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia and the Foreign Affairs Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U383	Thank you. So a break to... The name of the Saeima Secretary Maria Golubeva to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U384	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Aldis Blumbergs, Anda Čakša, Sergey Dolgopolovs, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Nikolai Kabanovs, Andrejs Klementjevs... yes, Maris Kučinskis, Janīna Kursīte, Inese Lībiņa-Egne, Ivars Puga, Karina Sprūde, Lubova Švecova, Inese Voika and Normunds Gunna. There's a flower. Voika and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U385	Thank you. Interruption until 4 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U386	Colleagues! We are told that another 10 minutes is needed to copy the documents. Consequently, the technical break by 4.15 p.m. to gather all the documents and allow us to continue the sitting. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U387	Dear colleagues, So everyone's got the documents. We're continuing the Saeima sitting. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. The National Administration and Municipal Commission asks for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Elections to the European Parliament” at first reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. I would add that the Commission is asking for this draft law to be included before the draft agenda item ‘Amendments to the Law on Money Laundering and Prevention of Terrorism’. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. Consequently, on the agenda - draft law on Amendments to the Law on Elections to the European Parliament, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U388	Colleagues! In view of the situation, the draft law on Amendments to the Election Law of the European Parliament has been drafted. I will read an annotation to make it absolutely clear why such a draft law is necessary and what we will achieve with it. ‘ Following the announcement by the Central Electoral Commission of 23 May 2019 that the European [Parliament] Election Law is not being enforced, i.e. in the previous vote voters cannot vote in any polling station, but only in the one where they are registered. This is confirmed by the available information in the media space and on the CEC website. LR 13. Members of the Saeima are worried about the situation and consider that the amendments to the law prepared by [...] extend the working hours of the polling stations on Friday until 20.00.” The purpose of this draft law is only... in this situation, where there have been several causal relationships... from the fact that a large part of the population did not receive election announcements about their districts... Next, the situation... When the people were supposed to be able today, tomorrow go to the ballot boxes in any district and change... However, this system has failed to withstand the load it is. There is no possibility for citizens to change polling stations. This draft law, these amendments to the law, provides that tomorrow... It was scheduled to use this opportunity by 16.00... These amendments to the law provide for this period to be extended until 20.00 (that is, logically, for people the work ends at 17.00), so that after working time they can go and make their choice in the elections to the European Parliament. These amendments to the law will certainly contribute to the activity of voters and their ability to participate in the elections to the European Parliament. Consultations with both the CEC and the Parliament's Legal Office and the Ministry of Finance have been held. It should be noted that these amendments to the law are well thought out, aimed at positive... to enable citizens to participate in elections to the European Parliament. It also complies with all international norms, acts that are binding on Latvia. We have also received a positive opinion from the Minister of Finance on the legislative amendments tabled. I call on the Saeima to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U389	That's it, colleagues. First of all, we must vote on urgency. I understand, the commission asks...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U390	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the urgency of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U391	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent adoption of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Elections to the European Parliament! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U392	Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U393	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U394	Dear Members of the Saeima! Let us be honest now! This is the first time, it is an unprecedented case in the history of the independent Republic of Latvia, that there are so enormous problems with the organisation of elections to the European Parliament. In fact, responsibility for these problems must lie with the government, which has failed to organise the elections qualitatively and which has in fact denied the quality of a number of voters of the Republic of Latvia... receive the information in good time. And there are also questions about security, about how the dispatch of these statements has been organised. Are the companies that have delivered the notifications safe? Have the national safety authorities checked the whole matter? The result is that... There is no elections to the European Parliament in substance, so to say, from the most visited elections, and now... In fact, in this way, we are threatening the security of Latvia. We threaten in such a way that we increase access to the European Parliament for those who might be very much more unfriendly to the Latvian state than... because it is very organized by the voter. Another thing that needs to be said in this context, and that is a very important thing. Will the head of government Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš, who is in office, but who is essentially the manager's position - organise everything to ensure that everything is quality and properly fulfilled in Latvia - will he take personal responsibility for how the European elections have been organised and how the European Parliament is still held? This is a very important issue. And in this context, there will also be a request from Prime Minister Kariņš regarding what has been done in this regard, what should be done and what will be done, which officials will answer. With regard to officials, a little while ago here in the Saeima, in our Parliament, there was a debate in which we talked about the fact that on the eve of the European Parliament elections it would not be right to change the chair of the Central Electoral Commission for the very reason that it is more logical if... Even if there are changes, they should have been after the European Parliament elections. This is the result! The result is very simple: the change in the management of the Central Electoral Commission in itself has not made any positive contribution. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. ( K. Feldman's intermediate call.) The opposite has happened - there is chaos, there is confusion, the public is dissatisfied with the current situation. ( Interface: “Light Schemes! ” ) Basically, it is proof that present as an achievement that a certain official has been replaced... Let's call it revanshism... that this is not the right system. The correct system is one that solves the problems in substance. The problems are not solved only by the replacement of people in positions of responsibility. And in fact, in this case, the government has not solved these problems. Parliament today... I understand that you are boring because it is already in the afternoon, so long as the parliament does not work. Usually it happens by 12 noon, we're about to finish the sitting... ( Forbiddenly.) I understand your frustration that you have to work a little longer once in a while. We should not have been in such a situation that, in fact, two days before the elections, there is an urgent need to amend something so that people at all have the opportunity to go to these elections and vote in favour of the political power they want to vote on. I call on the coalition to demand it itself, and it would be accountable to the whole society, the responsibility of Prime Minister Kariņa of the Republic of Latvia, who has not really done anything to prevent such chaos in Latvia. I hope that Latvia will not experience this blemish and reproof from the institutions of the European Union as well, that it does not know how to organise the elections to the European Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U395	I closed the debate. Is something to be added on behalf of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U396	On behalf of the Commission, the main aim of the draft law is to increase the opportunity for citizens to participate in elections. Friday, that's tomorrow, you'll be able to attend from four o'clock... It was so far... up to four... Now, to eight in the evening. This is aimed at increasing the opportunity for citizens to participate in the elections to the European Parliament, and it is Parliament's response to the emerging situation. I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U397	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Elections to the European Parliament! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U398	15 minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U399	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 15 minutes - by noon...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U400	... at 16.40 a.m.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U401	By 16:40, huh? Thank you. And second reading?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U402	Second reading - today.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U403	The Saeima is sitting today.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U404	The Saeima at today's sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U405	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Members Valainis, Pavļuts, Strike, Dzintars and Latkovskis are asking to announce a break for 20 minutes. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name to Member Uldis Budrik - for a statement.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U406	Honorary members of the Commission of State Administration and Local Government! I invite you, in 15 minutes' time, to consider this draft law in the committee's Chamber. Thank you. ( The utterances: “15! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U407	Thank you. Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U408	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Raimonds Bergmanis, Anda Čakša, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Ilmars Dūritis, Andrejs Judines (interim: Yes!) )... Andrey Judin is. Nikolai Cabanov, Armands Krauze, Maris Kučinskis, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Evija Papule... Yes, Ivars Puga (interim: Yes!) )... yes, Ivan Ribakov (interface: “Yes!” )... Yes, Karina Sprūde and Edmunds Teirumnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U409	Thank you. Consequently, a meeting of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government will take place during the break. Let's get back to work after maybe 20... a little more than 20 minutes. Interruption until 4:50 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U410	Dear colleagues, The National Administration and Local Government Commission has finished its work, but it takes about 10 minutes to collect documents. So we will be able to resume the sitting as soon as the documents are ready - in about 10 minutes. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U411	Dear colleagues, Thus, the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Elections to the European Parliament is available to Members for second reading. And Members Valainis, Adamovičs, Latkovskis, Pavļuts and Zakaistovas are asking for amendments to the agenda of the sitting and for the transposition of the draft law on amendments to the electoral law of the European Parliament before item 35 of the agenda. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? Who has reservations? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) None. Very good. Thank you. So we can see the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Elections to the European Parliament at second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U412	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! The Commission has developed three proposals. 1. - The proposal drawn up by the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government is of a technical nature. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U413	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U414	Two more. - The proposal drawn up by the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government is of a technical nature. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U415	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U416	And also 3. - the proposal drawn up by the committee responsible is of a technical nature. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U417	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U418	I therefore call for support for the draft law at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U419	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the second, final, final reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Elections to the European Parliament! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U420	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U421	On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U422	Hello, colleagues! Is there a good night to say... Okay. At its meeting on 14 May this year, the Commission examined the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism’. 56 proposals were received in total, mainly of a technical nature - editorial clarifications for the first reading. The proposers were three – the Legal Bureau, the Commission itself and the Minister of Defence Artis Pabriks instead of the Minister of Finance. Hence, God’s Word says: “This is what Jehovah has done. ” — Dep. V. Orlov: “We learn to read!” ) by the Minister of Defence Arta Pabrika. Let's start looking at it. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. It intends to change the title of the law, and in the future the law will be termed “Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and Proliferation”. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U423	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U424	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. This is also of a technical nature. The proposal provides for the replacement of the words ‘terrorist financing’ by ‘terrorist (Dep. I. Riena: “Do not explain!” ) and financing of proliferation’. ( The transcripts are: ‘ Stop Explaining! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U425	(Slaughter with hammer.) Colleagues, allow the rapporteur to report, please, on the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U426	Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U427	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U428	3. - the proposal by Minister of Defence Art Pabriks, which provides for editorial clarification. The text was supplemented by the words ‘and proliferative’. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U429	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U430	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technical specification. Clarified understanding of the concept of ‘shell bank’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U431	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U432	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The concept of ‘extraordinary transaction’ is disabled, supplemented by an explanation of ‘suspicious transaction’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U433	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U434	6. - the proposal by Minister of Defence Art Pabriks, which contains editorial clarifications on the interpretation of the concept of "propagation". ( Milestones: “What is proliferative? ” ; “Dispersion of weapons!” “You need it!” ) Reference to the International Law on Sanctions and the Republic of Latvia. Partly supported by the Commission, included 12. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U435	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U436	7. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Clarified version concerning the extension of entities. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U437	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U438	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Supplemented range of entities - insolvency administrators, antique brokers and custodians of such items. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U439	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U440	9. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. It is also a technical proposal and provides that the entities of the law remain in insolvency and liquidation proceedings. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U441	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U442	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. The obligations of other parties to provide information on suspicious transactions are specified in the editorial form. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U443	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U444	11. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Technical specification. Partially supported, included 12. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U445	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U446	12. - Commission proposal. A technical, clarification proposal. Interpretation or definition of the term ‘proliferative’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U447	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U448	13. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. These are editorial corrections regarding the request for information from information systems of the Republic of Latvia. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U449	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U450	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. The concept has been clarified... This concerns the processing of personal data and the non-disclosure of information. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U451	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U452	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is a editorial proposal that concerns the exclusion of the concept of ‘extraordinary transaction’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U453	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U454	16. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. It is a editorial clarification of the function of independent audit. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U455	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U456	17. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative clarification. This concerns the economic activity of the legal entity. Replaced by other words... Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U457	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U458	18. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative clarification of procedures for the selection of staff in charge. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U459	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U460	19. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. An editorial clarification of the procedures for the allocation of powers between the entities of the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U461	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U462	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Editative specifications of the requirements for the senior management member and the staff member responsible, as well as the requirements for their assessment. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U463	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U464	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Editative clarification of transactions in virtual currency and exclusion of the concept of ‘extraordinary transaction’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U465	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U466	22. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Editative clarifications regarding customer research conditions and a ban on the maintenance of anonymous safes. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U467	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U468	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative clarifications regarding the clarification of the true beneficiary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U469	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U470	24. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Editative clarifications regarding supervision and control and the entities of the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U471	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U472	25. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Editative clarifications regarding the storage of information following the exclusion of a legal entity from the Register of Enterprises. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U473	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U474	26. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Editative clarifications concerning the submission of documents in the Register of Enterprises where it is not possible to identify the true beneficiary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U475	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U476	27. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Technical additions to the availability of information on genuine beneficiaries. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U477	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U478	A little patience, colleagues! Half we've looked from fifty-six... (Laughter) 28. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Editative specifications for transactions in electronic money. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U479	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U480	29. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative clarification of the deadlines for submitting information to the Financial Intelligence Agency. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U481	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U482	30. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative clarifications regarding the extension of the time limits for the provision of information. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U483	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U484	31. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Technical. Renumbering of Articles. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U485	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U486	32. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Editative specifications concerning the lodging of a threshold declaration. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U487	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U488	33. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Editative clarifications concerning the right of the Financial Intelligence Service to freeze funds for an indefinite period of time in case of suspected breach of international sanctions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U489	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U490	34. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technical details of requesting information from national registers. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U491	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U492	35. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative corrections. Partially supported, included 36. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U493	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U494	36. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Editative corrections on credit institutions' obligations to keep customer information. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U495	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U496	37. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Editable proposal on the supervision of auditors. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U497	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U498	38. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Editative clarification of supervision by the National Cultural Heritage Office. Partially supported, included 39. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U499	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U500	39. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Editative clarification of supervision and transaction amounts. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U501	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U502	40. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Editative clarifications regarding the supervision of legal entities. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U503	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U504	41. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Editative specifications of rental agents. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U505	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U506	42. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Editative additions to supervision of insolvency and winding-up proceedings. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U507	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U508	43. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Editative clarifications on the right of access to information by the Financial Intelligence Agency. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U509	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U510	44. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative clarification of the obligation to keep and not disclose information. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U511	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U512	45. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative clarifications on the use of information. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U513	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U514	46. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative clarifications. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U515	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U516	47. - Commission proposal. Technical clarifications on the provision of information to public authorities. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U517	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U518	48. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative clarifications for the exchange of information and cooperation between supervisory and control authorities. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U519	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U520	49. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technical Appendix on the change of name, clarified and supplemented articles. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U521	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U522	50. - Commission proposal. Editative clarification of the right of the Financial Intelligence Service to provide information to the investigating authorities in its own judgement. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U523	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U524	51. - a proposal from the Commission supplementing the rights of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission. It provides that the FCTC is also entitled to impose supervisory measures in a preventive manner. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U525	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U526	52. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Editative amendments to the challenge of decisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U527	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U528	53. - Commission proposal. Editative corrections on reporting to supervisory authorities. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U529	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U530	54. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative amendments regarding the period of application and the period of issue of regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U531	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U532	55. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technical corrections - numbering change. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U533	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U534	And 56. - Commission proposal. Editative corrections, clarification of entry into force. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U535	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U536	Thank you, colleagues, for your patience. I call for support for the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U537	Second. Second! Only in the second.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U538	Second reading. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U539	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U540	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 28 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U541	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 May this year. Thank you to Juris Rancāns for his detailed and meaningful report. (Applause) Sub-words: Ooo! ) On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Road Transport, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U542	Hello again! Today, at second reading, we will consider the draft law on Amendments to the Road Transport Act. I would remind you that this draft law was drafted by the Ministry of Transport and its purpose is to clarify the legal rules for commercial passenger transport by taxi and passenger car, as well as to clarify the regulation of bus terminals. The draft law intends to reinforce the supervision of the taxi industry. As you have already read on social networks, this is very important. In total 37 proposals were submitted to the second reading of the draft law, while three more were set up by the Commission when examining the draft law. So in total, we're going to look at 40... we're looking at 40 proposals in the committee, and I'm going to talk about them here in the Saeima. On the proposals submitted. In general, they are divided into two groups: one of the proposals submitted by the Minister of Transport, Mr Tāl Linkaita, and the other of those tabled by the Member, Mr Armands Krauze. When examining these two groups of proposals in the Commission, the members of the Commission chose to support the proposals put forward by the Transport Minister, namely that, with one exception, they did not support the proposals of Member Armanda Krauze, because... Of course, thank you to the Member who invested a great deal of work in drafting the proposals, but in this case, the Commission considered that Member Armandas Krauze's proposals were in conflict with the aim of the bill, that is, to sort out the taxi industry, or had not been sufficiently discussed with the industry and the responsible authorities before the submission. I'm not gonna miss your time. Let us take note of the proposals. 1. - The proposal from the Member Krauze. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U543	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U544	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U545	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U546	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U547	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U548	4. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U549	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U550	5. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U551	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U552	6. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U553	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U554	7. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U555	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U556	8 / 8 - The proposal from the Member Krauze. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U557	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U558	9. - The proposal from the Member Krauze. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U559	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U560	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U561	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U562	11. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U563	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U564	12. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U565	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U566	13. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U567	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U568	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Member Krauze. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U569	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U570	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U571	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U572	16. - The proposal from the Member Krauze. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U573	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U574	17. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. Partially supported, included 18. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U575	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U576	18. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U577	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U578	19. - The proposal from the Member Krauze. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U579	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U580	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U581	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U582	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Member Krauze. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U583	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U584	22. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U585	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U586	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Member Krauze. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U587	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U588	24. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U589	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U590	25. - The proposal from the Member Krauze. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U591	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U592	26. - The proposal from the Member Krauze. It is identical to 27. - the Transport Minister's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U593	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U594	27. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U595	The Commission has already supported this view.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U596	Okay, very good. 28. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. Partially supported, included 29. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U597	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U598	29. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U599	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U600	30. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U601	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U602	31. - The proposal from the Member Krauze. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U603	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U604	32. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U605	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U606	33. - The proposal from the Member Krauze. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U607	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U608	34. - The proposal from the Member Krauze. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U609	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U610	35. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U611	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U612	36. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U613	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U614	37. - The proposal from the Member Krauze. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U615	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U616	38. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U617	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U618	39. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. Partially supported, included 40. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U619	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U620	40. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U621	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U622	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support the draft law at second reading!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U623	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Road Transport Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 81, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U624	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 28 May this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U625	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Law on the processing of personal data intended for the protection of the judiciary”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jūlija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U626	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has prepared for the first reading a draft law “Law on the processing of personal data intended for the protection of the judiciary”. This draft law is designed to fully transpose the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties and on the free movement of such data. It is now referred to as the Police Directive. The main objective of the draft law and the Police Directive is to protect the fundamental rights of natural persons to the protection of personal data and to respect for private life as regards the processing of personal data by the competent authorities for the purpose of preventing, detecting, prosecution or the execution of criminal penalties, as well as the protection of and the prevention of threats to public security. With the introduction of the Law on the Processing of Personal Data it was established that in the work of law enforcement authorities it is often necessary to establish derogations to the right to the protection of personal data in order to ensure and guarantee the vital interests of other persons, state security and protection. Currently, derogations from the protection of personal data are laid down in the specific legal provisions governing certain activities, thus creating a fragmented legal framework. Moreover, given that the processing of personal data by the law enforcement authority is essentially subject to the same principles, which differ from general rules, the specific regulation is uniform and repeats substantially. In view of this, as regards the processing carried out for the purpose of preventing, detecting and investigating criminal offences and administrative offences and to protect against threats to public security, a separate single framework has been established, which is contained in the draft law in question. The draft law establishes the principles of the processing of personal data, the rights of the data subject, the duties of the controller and the processor, the transfer of personal data to third countries and supervisory authorities. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U627	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on the processing of personal data intended for the protection of the judiciary! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U628	The deadline for submitting proposals is 31 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U629	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 31 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juta Strike.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U630	Dear colleagues, For consideration in the Saeima, a draft law prepared by the Subcommittee on Criminal Law Policy of the Legal Commission “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” is proposed. The drafting of the law has taken place at six sub-committee meetings of the Criminal Law Policy, involving both academic and industry professionals from law enforcement institutions, including the police. Draft law has been reviewed and approved at the meeting of the Legal Commission on 14 May this year. It should be noted that in 2017, the previous Saeima already amended Articles 124, 126 and 356 of the Criminal Procedure Law in order to ensure a more effective investigation. However, by referring to objections by law enforcement authorities against shortcomings in the application of these rules, the following amendments have been made. The essence of the amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law before you today is to provide an opportunity for responsible institutions to carry out investigations in the processes of money laundering. The proposed amendments are intended to facilitate the process of proof of criminally acquired property - more precise interpretation of the subject matter of proof as well as clearer norms regarding the legal presumption of the fact. As regards the legal presumption of the fact (in connection with supplementing Section 125 of the Criminal Procedure Law with the third paragraph), I would like to emphasise in addition that it applies only to property, imposing on a person the obligation to explain the legal origin of the property in question. Moreover, it will not be an obligation for any person, but for one who is found to be suspected or accused of money laundering. So the process leader should have already collected initial evidence in criminal proceedings so that he can shift the burden of proof of the legitimate origin of the property to the person's shoulders. The rights of defence of a person shall in no way be restricted. I would also like to emphasise that the principle of presumption of innocence remains with regard to the other features of the criminal offence. The proposed amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law also provide for setting a precise time limit within which a person is obliged to prove the lawful origin of the property, if the leader of the process has suggested that the property has been criminally acquired. If a person fails to fulfil such obligations within the period of 45 days, he shall lose his right to compensation for the damage suffered. I can explain that such a time limit - 45 days - is also necessary because in practice a person tends to promise to tell tomorrow, the day, does not give any news, then changes the news, says that someone has given it something in Afghanistan, and says that he is sending a request to Afghanistan, then he says - no, he remembers that it was in another country... Sometimes a person does not show anything at all, but only in court, when problems already exist to check information, begins to explain something. Therefore, it was also necessary, in our opinion, for a reasonable time - 45 days - so that the person could give his or her explanations. Here, too, I would like to stress that the rights of the individual to the defence are not restricted. The person shall have the right to present evidence of the lawful origin of the property at all times during the proceedings, whenever he wishes and is able to do so. I would like to emphasise that that provision provides for the exclusion of cases where a person has unduly delayed the proceedings in order to obtain, as a result, compensation from the State for frozen funds. Please support the draft law submitted by the Legal Commission at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U631	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U632	The deadline for submitting proposals is 7 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U633	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 7 June this year. Does Member Clementyev have... want to say something about the proposals? Please turn on the microphone for the Member... No, you don't. It was a mistake. Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 7 June this year. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Cooperative Society, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U634	Colleagues! We in the Commission often have to learn about the specific conduct of officials, which I would call irresponsible performance of my duties or even failure to carry out my duties at all. In particular, officials, instead of timely preparation of the necessary legislative initiatives that are necessary in their areas of responsibility, align them, properly discuss them with the social partners, with stakeholders and then come to the Commission with these legislative initiatives, often choose not to do anything at all. But then he comes to us in the Commission, makes big eyes and cares for the faces, and begins to tell us how important the amendments are and why they need to be adopted. This amendment to the Law on Cooperative Society, which we will discuss today, is one of these cases. Perhaps this is due to the fact that our commission has so far been very tolerant of the attitude of such officials and has tried to extinguish something of its own fire, as it is often presented. Because we understand that, indeed, such action by officials would often cause a large proportion of society, businesses, to whom it would cause serious damage or serious problems. In particular, this amendment relates to the fact that the Cooperative Society Act also provides for a procedure... the way in which these companies may qualify for State aid, to the support of European Union funds. Now the officials have suddenly discovered that the regulation provided for by the law, namely the transitional provisions by which the Cabinet of Ministers could impose the entire procedure, will cease to be in force on 1 July, but a new delegation will have to be made by 30 June. It turns out that with the current version of the law, the Cabinet of Ministers cannot obtain such delegation. They therefore turn to us and ask for an urgent response to this situation, namely that the legal text that they need should state how these companies can obtain the status of eligibility under which they can then qualify for the aid. This applies both to the criteria and the time limits for granting compliance status, as monitored. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy once again wants to delete the fire, so we are tabling this bill as a proposal from the Commission and we are asking it to look at it as a matter of urgency so that it can pass until 30 June to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U635	So we must vote for urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Cooperative Society”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U636	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U637	And obviously the Commission is asking for support at first reading. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendment to the Law on Cooperative Society". Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U638	27 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U639	Okay. And consideration of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U640	In the nearest sitting that will be. I assume it will be 30 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U641	30 May The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 May this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 30 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Processing of Personal Data”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jūlija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U642	Dear colleagues, This draft law is related to the draft law “Law on the processing of personal data intended for the protection of the judiciary”, which was voted on today at first reading. It is planned that during the autumn part-session it will be adopted at third reading and the law will enter into force during the autumn part-session. Unfortunately, it was planned that the law would be developed more quickly, therefore the norms of the Personal Data Processing Law, which currently regulate the processing of these data, are only valid until July 1 of this year. Therefore, in order to eliminate the vacuum of the legal framework in this area, the Legal Commission unanimously supported the amendment, which provides that the relevant provisions of the law are to remain in force until 1 October. This ensures that all rules are consistent. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I ask that this draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U643	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Processing of Personal Data” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U644	On behalf of the Legal Commission, I ask you to support this draft law at first reading without a re-examination by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U645	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Processing of Personal Data” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U646	On behalf of the Legal Commission, I ask Members today to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U647	Are Members opposed to the examination of the draft law without re-examination by the committee responsible? There is no objection. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Processing of Personal Data” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Scientific Activities, first reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Jānis Cielēns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U648	Dear colleagues, The Education, Culture and Science Commission has prepared for first reading the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Scientific Activities”. Currently, Article 18 of the Scientific Act defines the duties of expert commissions and the conditions for the election of such commissions. According to the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, ‘[t]he law does not impose obligations on LZP’s experts, as is the case for expert commissions [...]. The law establishes expert commissions, experts of LZP, the necessity of qualification criteria for the member of the expert committee, but it is not clear that the qualification criteria should be extended to the scientist in order to obtain the rights of the expert of LZP, as the candidate for the expert committee member may also be if he has obtained the authority of the expert of LZP. Thus, the law must clarify the nature of LZP experts and the qualification requirements to be set for this purpose, as well as specify the competence of LZP regarding the approval of the LZP experts’ rights. In addition, the duration of the expert panels should be specified." There have been discussions in the Commission for Education, Culture and Science on this draft law. The draft law is supported for the first reading, and the commission asks that the draft law be declared urgent, because clarification of the issues of Latvian Scientific Council experts in the said draft law is directly and directly related to the continuous provision of university promotion councils, as well as to the issue of employment, remuneration and reputation of academic staff. On behalf of the Commission, I ask that the draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U649	Mr. Wuzan, do you want to talk about urgency? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Vucāns: “On content!” ) On the content. So to debate the first reading. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Scientific Activities! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 60, for - 22, for - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent. Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U650	Once again, good, honourable colleagues and honourable colleagues! If the majority of the Saeima has already decided to direct this draft law, and in the order of urgency, to what the rapporteur mentioned, I nevertheless consider it my duty to add some things that are relevant to this draft law and which, when looking at these amendments, have either deliberately fallen out of the draft law by chance. First of all, these are issues that affect the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers in regulating scientific activities in the country. With scientific activities in the country, the situation is that not only the Ministry of Education and Science is responsible. There are many situations where the studies relate to the Ministry of Agriculture; more precisely, there are many studies relating to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Defence and so on. Until now – in the current version of the law – the criteria for assessing the quality of scientific projects or scientific programmes (for example, “Letonika” or other programmes) were approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. This is done jointly and severally by all ministries, by all ministries of interest. But now, looking at and approving such criteria from the draft law has disappeared at all. In the past, the procedure was such that the criteria were proposed by the relevant sectoral commission of the Council of Science of Latvia and then approved by the Cabinet. A similar situation exists with the criteria for assessing the quality of the activities of scientific institutions. There is currently no such criteria in the new version of the law. In the past, it was also the case that the evaluation criteria were proposed by the relevant fields of science... the relevant sectors... The Panel of the Council of Science of Latvia, but now it has been removed from their competence, as well as the function of approval of the Cabinet of Ministers. These are just a few examples that show that, obviously, at a time when the draft law will be reviewed at second reading, we have a sufficiently serious discussion before us as to whether such criteria, which are essentially quality control in the scientific field, are not necessary at all, whether we are releasing their baskets or their corners sufficiently loosely, or yet we are trying to maintain some kind of supervision on the part of the country over scientific institutions, over those projects that are being implemented in the country. I admit that perhaps the draft lawmakers have thought that it is enough to point out the procedure in which the Cabinet of Ministers approves the allocation of funding to different projects and different institutions, but in my view, the procedure and criteria for evaluation are, however, different things. And that's why I draw your attention to it. In the vote on this bill myself, I will abstain at the moment, but... Well, you have the right to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U651	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U652	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U653	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Scientific Activities! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 58, for - no, for - 22. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U654	The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 June this year. Review at the Saeima sitting on 13 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U655	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 10 June this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 13 June this year. On the agenda - consideration of Members' requests. Requests received by Members. Request to Prime Minister Artur Krišjānis Kariņš “On the Situation of the Organisation of the Elections to the European Parliament”. Dear colleagues, We have received a request from Member Alda Gobzema, Linda Liepiņa, Jānis Vacāns, Julia Stepanenko, Raimonds Bergmanis, Ulda Augulis, Gundars Dūke, Jānis Dūklavs, Armands Krauze and Viktors Valaiņš to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš on the situation regarding the organisation of elections to the European Parliament. This request has been made to all Members. The applicants have asked for a statement of reasons. On behalf of the applicants, Member Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U656	It is no secret that there are obvious problems in the organisation of work in the context of the elections to the European Parliament, there are various security risks and, in the end, there are losses for people who have actually gone without result to the polling stations and also to the state. For example, today, with the adoption of the relevant amendments to the law, there have been losses - additional expenditure. The question is, who will answer for this? Given that the government is, in fact, responsible for organising the elections to the European Parliament, such responsibility should be assumed by Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš. We must therefore ask the Prime Minister a number of questions. Why has the Government of the Republic of Latvia not been able to organise secure and accessible elections to the European Parliament for all citizens with the right to vote? Which officials are responsible for the current situation, and what responsibility will the members of the government take? The request also requests the submission of a government action plan. What has been done so far, and what has been done in these last days... During the elections, in order to minimise the damage caused to the country? That demand is actually in a situation... originated in order for Prime Minister Kariņš to explain it. And also to motivate Prime Minister Karina to work very intensively these two days so that the elections to the European Parliament in our country at all take place so that they can do much more or less well. To be able to take part in them much less... as many voters as possible. In fact, up to today's events, Prime Minister Kariņš has been very passive and has not taken any action to eliminate all the existing problems. In addition, there is, of course, also a question of safety considerations... is a direct task of the Prime Minister. Therefore, demand is more a motivation for the Prime Minister to get in and finally start to act responsibly, taking part in the serious resolution of this problem within the last two days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U657	Consequently, we shall refer the request to the Requesting Commission. On the agenda - request to the Minister of Education and Science Ilga Šuplinska “On uncertainties about raising teachers' salaries as of 1 September 2019 without additional conditions”, submitted by Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Didzis Šmits, Aldis Gobzems, Viktors Valainis, Uldis Augulis, Jānis Vucāns, Evija Papule, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Janīna Jalinska and Linda Liepiņa. The request shall be made available to all Members at the time of the referral to the Commission. Examination of notifications. On violation of the Code of Ethics of Members of the Saeima. Communication on 13. Saeima Member Igora Pimenova Saeima Members' Code of Conduct infringement case. On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - Member Janīna Kursīte-Pakule.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U658	Dear Members! Honourable Members! At its meeting on 15 May this year, the commission examined the application of Members Jānis Dombrava, Juta Strīķe, Artuss Kaimina, Edvina Šnore and Anita Muižniece to assess compliance of Member Igora Pimenov's actions with the Code of Ethics of Members of the Saeima. The Commission heard the parties involved and found that, in the situation described in the application, Member Igor Pimenov had violated paragraphs 1, 4, 5 and 7 of the Code of Conduct for Members of the Saeima. Consequently, on the basis of Rule 179(7)(3) of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission decided by a majority to issue a written warning to the Member Igors Pimenovs by notifying it at the Saeima sitting, as well as by publishing the Commission’s decision in the official edition of the Official Journal of Latvia. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U659	Thank you. So we have heard the announcement. The agenda is an examination of the own-initiative proposals. The draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 301 Latvian citizen’s collective application “On City streets without salt””. On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - Member Ilmārs Dūritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U660	Dear colleagues, On 1 April 2019 the Saeima received a collective application from 10 301 Latvian citizen “On city streets without salt”. On 24 April this year, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application examined an application inviting to assess the use of salt on the streets, its proportionality and the need to offer the use of sand or other alternative slipping materials in densely populated areas and cities. On 15 May this year representatives from the Ministry of Transport and “State Roads of Latvia” attended the meeting of the Commission. Having heard the arguments put forward by the invited persons, the Commission unanimously decided to refer this Latvian citizens' initiative to the Parliamentary Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy for further evaluation. Thus, on the basis of the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Section 131.5 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, the Commission prepared a draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 301 Latvian citizen’s collective application “On City streets without salt”. On behalf of the Commission, please support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U661	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 301 Latvian citizen’s collective application “On City streets without salt””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 273 Latvian citizens “On the joint parliamentary waiver of compensation””. On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - Member Ilmārs Dūritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U662	On 8 April 2019, the Saeima received a collective application from 10 273 Latvian citizens “On joint and several refusal of compensation by members of the Saeima”. On 15 May this year, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application heard an authorised representative of the applicants, who pointed out that the purpose of the application was to abolish compensation for rent and transport expenses for members of the Saeima. Members of the Commission supported further progress in the application and proposed that it be referred to the Legal Commission. Thus, on the basis of the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Section 131.5 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, the Commission prepared a draft decision of the Saeima “On the way forward of the 10 273 Latvian citizens’ collective application “On the joint waiver of compensation of members of the Saeima”. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft decision that has been prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U663	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 273 Latvian citizens “On the joint and several refusal of compensation of members of the Saeima””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Decision adopted. We have examined the agenda of the sitting. With regard to today's question and the response sitting, I would like to inform you that it has been postponed to 5 p.m. on 30 May. Questions have been put to Members. Members Reizniece-Ozola, Krauze, Dauge, Vucanas, Kučinskis and others submitted a question to Members entitled “The Ministry responsible for the improvement of the Voluntary Labour Law”, which we hand over to the Prime Minister for reply. Members Reizniece-Ozola, Bergmanis, Dauge, Vucāns, Kučinskis and Jalinska submitted a question to Members “On the solution to the problem of reducing the “tyre mountains” in Latvia”, which we submit to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development for reply. Please call me! Please register the Members! Time for notifications. Dear colleagues, I know that many of you have expressed an opinion about a lack of air, or oxygen, in the Saeima’s meeting room. The Saeima Administration has informed us that from the very morning the ventilation system has been turned on in maximum mode. Well, that's what we have to take into account. ( Milestones.) Name of the Saeima Secretary Andrejs Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U664	Good afternoon, honourable Members! Keep working! The Saeima Presidium, together with group leaders, shall meet immediately in the Red Hall to a joint meeting of the Fraction Council and the Saeima Presidium.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U665	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U666	In line with the recommendation of Andrejs Klementyev, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission continues to work and in 15 minutes' time there is a regular meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U667	Name for Maria Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, to report on the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U668	Not registered: Arvils Asheradens, Jānis Adamsons, Raimonds Bergmanis, Anda Čakša, Gundars Dauge, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Nikolai Kabanovs, Armands Krauze, Māris Kučinskis, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Regina Ločmele-Lunova, Ivans Ribakovs, Karina Sprūde and Mārtiņš Staķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-23-PT13-538-U669	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
