ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. Let us begin the sitting of the Saeima on 12 December 2019. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On re-approval of Zita Zariņa as a member of the Council of the State Audit Office”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft decision “On re-approval of Edgars Korčagins as a member of the Council of the State Audit Office” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Local Government””. ‘ On” applied to speak by Daniel Pavluts.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U2	Dear President of the Saeima. Members of the Bureau! Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Today we have asked to include the Saeima on the agenda and see the issue that has been discussed by the Commission of State Administration and Local Government regarding changes in order, how local elections are held in Latvia. These are two related draft laws. They were discussed thoroughly by the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. According to legal experts, Members, many comments were made about and against. The most important thing for me was to hear that the experts in law, including those in constitutional law, expressed the opinion that the current procedure for electing municipalities in Latvia was open to debate. For example, that key point that we also refer to in the annotation... This is one of the main reasons why this draft law has been drafted... 15 months, which extraordinary... I'm sorry... If the Saeima takes a decision on the dismissal of a municipality, then 15 months before the regular elections in the municipality are not held and the administrators are operational. It is neither sufficiently democratic nor directly representative of the will of the population in the territory of the municipality concerned, so this point should be amended. Of course, this is becoming especially important now, because we know... we haven't seen yet... We know that VARAM works on the draft law and harmonises the draft law... Currently the order roll of the Cabinet of Ministers in circulation... on dismissal of the Riga City Council, which is legally justified, which is related to repeated violation of the law in the municipality of Riga, by non-performance of autonomous functions. We have all heard about this. Now we think that this draft law will reach the Saeima, we will decide on it, the adoption of this law will be delayed, and we will end up with the possibility that administrators appointed by such government could operate in Riga municipality for 15 months from the place of office. This is not a desirable scenario. We believe that this situation needs to be corrected. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Gobzems: ‘What is the situation to be rectified?’ ) We would therefore ask you to discuss this issue, to look, to decide today on the agenda, to see also... decide also on the urgency and correct this situation as soon as possible in line with our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U3	Mr. Aldis Gobzems has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U4	Good morning, colleagues! I understand so that after last week's vote, which did not take part... about gambling... Daniel Paviluts... he's taken off the track... on the Mayor of Riga... but still maintains the issue of the fact that municipalities could not be elected as a democratic state - for four years, which is in accordance with the Constitution - but for a longer period. The only reason is that it's left... 15 months left, huh? From Mr Pavļuta, we did not hear where the dividing line is, if there are extraordinary elections in a municipality or in the Saeima, how many months must be, so that the municipality should not be extended... this time of election, but the municipality elected in an extraordinary election would therefore work this short time, as foreseen in the Constitution. There are no arguments, there is only an argument: we will have a short time to fully agree on everything... What we plan to do. Once again, I would like to stress: all these amendments are, by their very nature, unconstitutional, restrictive of democracy. The whole society understands that democracy... the elected body shall be open for four years. Four years is the maximum. Otherwise, the argument that 15 months is too little... the same argument can be applied that five and a half years are also too few. Well, you can't be able to do all the "global" reforms in five and a half years, then maybe we could change the deadline right away for 10 years. After that, you can't have 10 years, because plans... because the Chinese are making plans for 100 years. Then it should be even longer. In principle, the particular issue relates only to the fact that the politicians who are driving this are not prepared to take responsibility and start in an extraordinary election, which we will probably be talking about next week from this tribunal, are not prepared to take responsibility and make decisions quickly, to take all the necessary steps that municipalities should take within 15 months. One more thing. The law... None of the laws provide that in the case of extraordinary elections there is a shorter or longer period which should be adapted accordingly to the period of office of this municipality. Thus, the 15-month reference period cannot be an argument that it is too short or too long. Extraordinary elections are always an unpredictable exercise and may take place sooner or later. And this must be taken into account both by elected municipal members and by the public - so that, in the case of an extraordinary election, the municipality in question could work for a shorter or longer term. It is democratic, and it is legal. That is why I am calling for the 'no' vote... “to” what you want... actually legalise in Latvia that we will now establish that we have elections for a longer period than the Constitution has provided for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U5	Dear colleagues, We will vote in favour of including the draft law on the agenda of the Saeima sitting. Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendment to Law “On Municipalities” in the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. The National Administration and Municipal Commission is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Elections of City Council and District Council of the Republic”. ‘ On” applied to speak by Daniel Pavluts.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U6	Good morning, colleagues! As I have already mentioned, when it comes to putting the previous draft law on the agenda today, this is a related draft law, and here, as then, we can talk about deadlines. So our proposal is in substance... As leaders of the five coalition groups we have submitted, it is necessary to review the arrangements in which municipal elections can take place. Before I refer to specific months, dates, I would like to reflect on what one of our fellow Members has just mentioned when it comes to constitutional matters. The people who took part in the discussion at the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government must be considered the experts of the highest level, including on constitutional issues, and their opinion was that such a draft law, which we propose to include on the agenda today, is definitely to be considered and discussed and that the legislator has a wide right to decide on the way and for what deadlines elections are held in local governments of Latvia. To our colleague, I'll remind you that before it's safe to say something about... to declare compatible with the Constitution or not, such decisions are taken by the Constitutional Court in the Republic of Latvia. I will also remind you that the Satversme does not set a specific time limit for the election of municipalities. Here, the legislator has, of course, the right to decide, on the basis of many other considerations binding us. So we offer to put this draft law on the agenda today, see, to debate, to speak to everyone “for” and “to” here, from this workshop, as it was also done at the Commission of State Administration and Local Government in two sittings for two days. Thank you to the members of the Commission and to the external experts for this. So we are calling for this proposed amendment to be seen - if the municipality council has worked up to half of the deadline and it is released by decision of the Saeima for some legitimate reason, then there are extraordinary elections by the end of this term, so within four years. In turn, if the municipality has worked more than half, then in such case, when the extraordinary municipal elections are held, the time limits are combined - the rest and the next one. Thus, in the maximum version, such a municipality can work for less than six years. At the same time, I draw attention to the fact that regarding the release of municipal councils... dismissal has a very high legal threshold. This is a decision that needs to be justified. There is a need to record a repeated violation... there must be an alert, repeated infringement, it must be fixed. A law must be drawn up, it must be adopted by the government. It must be supported by the Saeima, it can be appealed to the Constitutional Court. So the check line here is very high. And I would like to dispel the concerns that might arise when someone listens to some of the critics of this proposal... that the term for which municipalities are elected is changed. The basic term is not changed, it remains - these four years. We are talking only about emergency situations that can arise if the Council is rightly dismissed. And finally. Gist of the proposal Another important element is that if nine months or less remain until the elections, then, yes, in that case, these administrators, which are appointed by the government, could actually work. The transition mechanism is necessary. But I am therefore calling for today to be put on the agenda, to have a good debate, to express the will of the legislator and to make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U7	Mr. Sergey Dolgopolov, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U8	Good morning, colleagues! To be honest, I wonder that we are beginning to talk and speculate on normal things. The electoral system of municipalities needs to be improved or not? Undoubtedly, this must be done. What is it? It's said we're changing two laws... Only in the context that we need... It is necessary to dismiss the Riga City Council. If there is a need to forgive someone else's idea, we'll change these laws again... and perhaps others when it comes to ports, let us say. Is that normal, is it not normal? I don't think so. Because when you talk about the debate that came out in the Commission, what... Mr. Pavilut also admitted... there was a place for discussion and a place for many questions. Consequently, this debate could be initiated, but not in a procedure such as that proposed by the honourable coalition... with all your need faster, faster and faster... It was just said that these things should be discussed. At the Commission's meeting, a proposal was made that urgency is now extremely necessary. I... when I asked: maybe we will make 15 minutes to submit proposals? - No, no, no! A much longer term - we offer one day. This is indeed a very serious discussion on a very serious issue now. One point. Two points. It has to be said that these amendments, which are proposed, are fundamentally changing the electoral system of local governments. I would like to remind my colleagues, who perhaps do not know that there is an institution called the Venice Commission, which makes recommendations on how and what can be done to improve the electoral system as a whole. And one of the basic recommendations made by the Venice Commission, which has a mandatory nature, is that essential... major amendments to the electoral system cannot be announced earlier than one year before the next elections. Thus, even in theory, this amendment proposed by the House and the company does not apply to the elections planned for the Riga City Council. The third point. Because it is about emergency situations, which are the basis for releasing one or the other municipality's dominion... The emergency situation is therefore also called an “exceptional situation” that it is neither predictable nor measurable on a case-by-case basis. Because in the case of Riga City Council it is about waste management. Therefore, if even we are talking about dismissal for this reason the Riga City Council will need to think about it every time - the reasons, the consequences and the mechanisms. There can be no universal mechanism here - or administration or non-administration. There must be – each individual case is assessed and assessed individually from a legal point of view. And finally. When we talk about emergency elections, about emergency situations, it must be understood that here, however, 100 smart heads assume the role that the voter normally plays. And the main issue here is not about it: the administration process is long or short; is it democratic or not democratic; the first fundamental question is: is it democratic that the choice of voters is abolished by 100 people? Naturally, not 100, but well, 100 people's audience is the decision-making audience that decides instead of voters. This moment is extremely undemocratic and must therefore be avoided by any means. I propose that today, however, we do not put this bill on the agenda, let him in the normal, normal... evaluate also from the Cabinet of Ministers... in the version of... and only then see, adding a wide debate. By the way, today you have just voted in favour of incorporating amendments to the municipal law. Today's agenda includes amendments to the local government...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U9	Mr Dolgopolov, the speaking time is over. No extension, I'm sorry. No extension...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U10	I call for the inclusion of...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U11	Not to be extended. Colleagues, we must therefore vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Elections of City Council and District Council of the Republic” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 54, it's against - 32, it's not. The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Unemployment Insurance” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Do Members object to the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of the sitting? There is no objection. The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members against (Interface: ‘No!’) ) the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of the sitting? There is no objection. The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. The agenda for the Bureau meeting was adopted. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child” presented by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Waste Management” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet “On the Convention between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on double taxation of income and capital taxes and the prevention of tax evasion and its protocol” be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. has been referred to the Commission. Proposals have been submitted for changes to the agenda of the sitting. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft law ‘Amendments to the Ports Act’. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Ports" on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. The Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child” to be included on the agenda of the sitting (No. 510/Lp13). Do Members object to the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of the sitting? There is no objection. The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the draft law on "Amendments to the Ports Act" presented by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the Commission responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U12	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, On 11 December this year, a letter from Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš was received at the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy about proposals for amendments to the Law on Ports. This letter states that the government declaration mentions, as one of the government's priorities, the fight against corruption - that is point 33 of the government declaration - as well as the implementation of modern governance, including public administration reforms, in order to improve the quality of its services and reduce the risks of corruption. And the government has concluded that the Freeport of Ventspils and the Freeport of Riga are at high risk of corruption, so urgent reforms are needed in the management of these ports in order to meet the priority set out in the Government Declaration (Dep. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “The port of Liepaja is not subject to corruption?” ) - the fight against corruption - and improve the management of these ports. And corruption risks in the Freeport of Ventspils are also the reason for the decision of the Foreign Asset Control Office of the State Treasury of the United States of America on 9 December 2019 to impose sanctions against Aivars Lembergs, Freeport of Ventspils administration, Ventspils Development Agency, Business Development Association and Latvian Transit Business Association. This decision of the Foreign Asset Control Office of the State Treasury of the United States justifies the need to take immediate action to establish an independent administration of the Freeport of Ventspils and the Freeport of Riga, which would reduce the risks of corruption in these ports. And such a model, as specified and created in the submitted draft law, will help to create independent Freeport of Riga and Freeport of Ventspils administrations, which will be directly responsible to the Cabinet of Ministers for the discharge of their duties, and thus the Cabinet of Ministers will be able to control the management of these ports. In this respect, please refer to the draft law ‘Amendments to the Ports Act’ (No. 515/Lp13) The Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission and please also support it by voting appropriately against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U13	“Pret” has applied to speak to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U14	Dear colleagues, Well, we're - perhaps not the last time we're here - on the US blacklist. It is likely that there will be another black or grey list in February. All of this is, of course, very regrettable. I fully agree that urgent action is needed with regard to the Freeport of Ventspils. But the question is, what about? Wouldn't it make sense for Prime Minister Karins to actually board the next plane and fly to America and ask questions that... well, we may have understood with regard to Mr Lembergs in particular, but why should Ventspils port and Ventspils suffer from this, and Ventspils economic zone? Isn't that a misunderstanding? How can this misunderstanding be dealt with quickly? Even if we assume that an indication is received from the USA that the problem can be resolved by a full replacement of the Ventspils Freeport Authority, then we, colleagues, have the next question - a why is the Freeport of Riga? Or in relation... Is that so? Is the Freeport of Riga also included in the blacklist? And if it's not on the black list (Dep. J. Strike’s intermediate call.) ... if it is not included in the blacklist, then what is the reason for including the Freeport of Riga here? And if the Freeport of Riga is included, why have you not included the Freeport of Liepaja? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “Sculpts!” ) Perhaps also Skulti, Salacgrīva and so on. You colleagues... with regard to your level of preparation... at least the fact that if you look at the annotation of this bill... Look at the second page of the annotation: “The total territory of Liepaja Special Economic Zone takes 65...” and so on. What kind of Liepaja?Oh, no, no, no, no, You could at least write the annotation correctly? ( A Fractional FUNGIATE laughter and ambush.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U15	Colleagues! We must vote in favour of handing over the draft law to the commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Ports", which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 52, it's against 23, it's not. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Dear colleagues, The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks that the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Ports" be referred to first reading without re-examination to the committee responsible, including as a first question on the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima under the heading "Review of draft laws". Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) And objections? Please call me! We will vote for the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Ports’ to be included on the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima... Examination of draft laws as the first item on the agenda! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 53, against - 23, refrains - not. Consequently, the draft law is placed on the agenda under the heading ‘Review of draft laws’ as a first question. On own-initiative proposals submitted. The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications has submitted its own proposal – the draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 379th Latvian citizens’ collective application “On the possibility to transfer different types of packaging for remuneration”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications has submitted a draft decision – the own-initiative proposal “On the way forward of the collective application of 40 518 Latvian citizens “On the abolition of real estate tax for the sole property””. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. On the granting of leave. For unpaid leave granted to Member Boris Cilevič on 12 December this year. The Saeima Bureau has received a request from Member Boris Cilevičs to grant unpaid leave on 12 December this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to the Member Ivan Ribakov on 12 December this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Mr Ivan Ribakov, Member, requesting that unpaid leave be granted on 12 December of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For granting unpaid leave to member Janina Kursīte from 21 to 23 January 2020. Honourable Members! We need to vote in this case. Please call me! We will vote for the granting of unpaid leave to Member Janina Kursīte from 21 to 23 January 2020! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The decision has been taken and leave has been granted. On closing and opening the session of the Saeima. Draft decision on the closure of the parliamentary autumn 2019 session and the opening of the winter 2020 session. It is proposed to close the autumn session of the Saeima on 27 December 2019 and to open the winter session on 9 January 2020. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the closure of the parliamentary session of autumn 2019 and the opening of the winter session of 2020! Please get the result! It's not about 80, it's against 1, it's not. Decision adopted. ‘ Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal, expression of trust or distrust of officials’. Draft decision “On Election of Mārtiņš Kazaks as President of the Bank of Latvia”. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U16	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined Mārtiņš Kazaks' candidacy for election as President of the Bank of Latvia, and I would like to say - impressive, impressive CV, impressive answers to colleagues in the committee. And most of the commission has supported the presence of Mārtiņš Kazaks... the creation of the President of the Bank of Latvia, starting from the second half of December this year. So please support Mārtiņš Kazaks about the President of the Bank of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U17	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U18	Good morning, Madam President of the Saeima. Good morning, colleagues! Today 13. The Saeima continues to restore the highest management structure for Latvia. This year has been a rich year for us. We have elected the Head of the Central Electoral Commission, the President of the State and the Head of the Financial and Capital Market Commission. Today is the turn for the Bank of Latvia's management. As in previous generations, this year “For Development/About!” We discussed how we saw the role of the Bank of Latvia in Latvia and Europe, set out the most important criteria for the new leader and talked with three of us, the most suitable candidates, who were ready to run the Bank of Latvia. The current law stipulates that the Bank of Latvia... The bank's management is driven by 10 Saeima Members in a purely political process... at the request of 10 Members of the Saeima. No additional criteria are formally set. And after the coalition parties had agreed on one common candidate - Mr. Kazak - some voters sighed: “There has been a political process again!” And, my fellow Members, in this disappointment, I hear the trauma that has left us in the policy of previous years and decades in Latvia. Political parties currently trust about 15 percent of Latvia's population. That's very little. At the same time, of course, it is more - even three times more! - than it was at one of the lowest points when voters voted for 10. The release of the Saeima. And it is important for us to maintain and enhance this trust through our activities. Therefore, it is important that voters today know that with regard to the President of the Bank of Latvia... Unlike earlier times, we didn't look for the biggest asshole. We were looking for a candidate whose vision of the Bank of Latvia would make it a strong institution capable of guiding the Latvian economy to all the necessary development, a candidate whose education and life course would help ensure it. Neither did we seek the least evil that so... that would not be ashamed internationally, but we were looking for a candidate who would be able to discuss the European Central Bank's table with other colleagues on the future of the euro area and to make decisions that would be beneficial to Latvia. Latvia has one voice at this table, and only English and prepared documents would not be sufficient. A strong and nuanced understanding of the macro-economics, the ability to discuss and make ourselves heard is what we expect from the new Head of the Bank of Latvia. We want to hand over our vote to the Head of the Bank of Latvia, who has a perfect reputation, which would help to increase confidence not only in the Bank of Latvia itself, but in the whole country of Latvia, which chooses the best and most powerful candidates in its leading positions. The Saeima of Latvia has not really had experience with the Bank of Latvia... in this century choose... New Control... For Latvia... The last time in the Bank of Latvia was 18 years ago, because the former manager was re-elected to the third... for the second and then the third term. In time, children grew up and were born. It will no longer be so, because we have voted in this Saeima that there will be only two deadlines and five years, so together - 10. In the meantime, we have to develop not only the Bank of Latvia (and there will be a lot of work there, because we have decided to combine the Bank of Latvia with the financial and capital markets... monitoring, but consideration should also be given to the management procedure. As much as we are pleased with the result, we should understand how to avoid the kind of feeling we had at this time. Nomination of candidates... nomination and evaluation may be combined with the political process. And the political process can have a positive place in Latvia's development if it is responsible. Responsible not for certain people who often hide behind them, but for the common interests of Latvian society. I invite you to support Mārtiņš Kazaks' candidacy of the Bank of Latvia... control... for the post. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U19	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U20	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, So today we wish the President of the Bank of Latvia. I wanted to give Mr. Kazak such a stick if he was elected. First of all, we must be aware of what the Bank of Latvia is. Currently, Latvijas Banka is a politically independent institution - with the emphasis on the words “independent institution” - with the largest analytical resources in Latvia. At the moment, there are about 500 employees. No other institution has such a powerful analytical resource... which would not be under direct political pressure. That is why it is very important, Mr Kazak, to remember that you have the opportunity to be courageous, independent and to update various important issues and perhaps less popular questions after you will be... if you are elected. One... One thing I would like to see you do is to analyse both the work of the government and the work of the ministries. You have this opportunity. Again - you are not dependent on political parties, you have the opportunity to really go and do it. Second, keep Members regularly informed about the government... and government on trends in the global economy and the global economy. This knowledge is very important for members of the Saeima and also for the government to adopt a long-term... long-term, truly important decisions, rather than focusing solely on incoming problems. We would also like to see you actively focus on technological development and help the Latvian financial system go towards innovation, as well as supporting financial technology companies. The Bank of Latvia has this capacity. There are people who really understand something about financial technology companies. Unfortunately, the relationship, as we know, is... There are currently 80 financial technology companies that have received state support in Lithuania and zero in Latvia. So that you too will be able to change. However, I would like to say that, apart from being courageous, you also need to be aware and understand that an independent institution does not mean injustice or grossness. You have to work in the public interest. You can't have more employees in the Bank of Latvia... like, for example, in the Swedish regulator, where is... Well, it's not just acceptable. And this is the time to deal with it. So that we have discussed this with you and we look forward to active action. And follow me. Secondly. I invite you to act first in the interests of the Latvian state and only then think about the recommendations of various international institutions, which must be taken into account, but... Primary - the state interests of Latvia. And a very important thing that I think you should remember when you take up this post - that your reputation is one of the most important things. Keep your reputation and make it a priority! And this change of terms, what... Changes in terms, which the previous speaker has already mentioned, so five plus five years, not forever... not 18 years, but five plus five... with specific target results. And I must conclude by saying that I very much liked Mr. Kazak's recommendation that, like we hold a foreign policy debate here once a year, the parliament should also hold an economic debate once a year, where both the President of the Bank of Latvia and the Minister of Economics and Members also discuss economic developments and developments in the country. So, if you're elected, I wish you luck. And let us keep an active eye on how you take these recommendations into account. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U21	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U22	Dear colleagues, I intend to start my speech by saying that, unfortunately, the election of the new President of the Bank of Latvia will not receive enough attention, but... but now I am looking at the list of speakers who have applied for, and I think that, however, this question will get some attention. ( Internouncing call.) I think, colleagues, it is a good time today to look back on the role of the Bank of Latvia as a whole, its success and its failure, and also to talk about what new Head of the Bank of Latvia we would like. Well, at least on the part of the fraction. First of all, I would like to say some positive things about the Bank of Latvia in the last 30 years... Well, that it was basically one... well, two leaders, but yet I think one. First positive thing. I would like to note the role of the Bank of Latvia as an advisory role. The Bank of Latvia has been such a... Relatively... common sense, despite very different political parties in these 30 years and this political party, so to speak, IQ and level of understanding. The Bank of Latvia has also repeatedly tried to go beyond its core competence and offer its advice, even if no one had asked for this advice, in other areas too. From tax policy to school network and health care, and so on. I am not going to say anything about the quality of these tips today. I cannot say that I agree with a lot, but I certainly welcome this initiative as such. And I think the Bank of Latvia should continue as well. There are also negative things. And very, very important. The most important thing is the 2009 crisis. I believe that Latvijas Banka has not prevented this crisis, but it has been able to prevent it. The main reason, in my opinion, was that the Bank of Latvia allowed credit directly in the euro currency, which... On the part of the population there was a clear motivation to take loans directly into euro, because loans in euro were at a much lower interest rate than loans in lats. But... From any point of view, it was completely wrong and wrong to allow such large and massive lending in another currency. And for that moment... I will remind you that the people of Latvia received their income in lats. It was a huge mistake on the part of the Bank of Latvia, which it was able to prevent, but it has made it. To compare, a country like Poland has not experienced any financial crisis such as Latvia. I'm just saying it was possible. The same Latvijas Banka also woke up too late in time. It woke up only with high inflation, which was already in the process of overheating, so to speak, at the very last stage. Then there was the fight against the crisis. I believe that Latvijas Banka has made a monumental mistake by choosing the path that internal devaluation... which it has chosen. There were people - such as Alf Vanag, who unfortunately is no longer there; I, some others, can also add Nobel to them... laureates Paul Krugman, including the International Monetary Fund, several economists - who considered internal devaluation to be a huge mistake. These people predicted a lost decade, which has also taken place. I knew both the people of the Bank of Latvia and its decision-making methods quite well at those times, and I have no doubt that this decision was not taken after a thorough and comprehensive analysis of the possible consequences of internal devaluation or devaluation, but it was adopted... It was actually adopted by one person; it was accepted by Ilmārs Rimšēvičs, the President of the Bank of Latvia. And all they did... In fact, the economists of Latvijas Banka had only two choices. They had to either leave their job at the Bank of Latvia or seek reasons for their boss's decisions already made in the past. Well, here already 100 percent chose the last way, of course.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U23	The debate is over, Mr Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U24	Can I join you?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U25	Are Members opposed to merging the two times of the debate? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U26	Thank you. Consequently, I believe that the 2009 crisis and its severity have been to a large extent the responsibility of the Bank of Latvia. And here's my colleague... How enormous the consequences for the country if we choose an inappropriate person for this job! The next is, of course, the issue of syndicated credit by Parex banka. It was the President of the Bank of Latvia Rimšēvičs who insisted that the State of Latvia, i.e. taxpayers, should fully pay the syndicated loan of Parex banka to international private lenders. And we're talking about EUR 775 million here... What never should have been done. Those working in international markets, in financial markets dealing with financial operations, are well aware that business risk is a risk. That can and should count on the fact that those to whom we have lent money can not repay it. In turn, the Latvian Government made a huge mistake by repaying completely, 100%, one against one, all this money... transferring it to Latvian taxpayers. And it was thanks precisely to the advice and actions of the President of the Bank of Latvia Rimšēvičs. Finally, of course, under the shadow of huge suspicions, Mr Rimšēvičs' role and involvement in the commercial banking sector is, of course, a role. Well, here, since I am running out of time, I will unfortunately not be able to discuss it in more detail. But, colleagues, sometimes the coalition also gets some good choices. I have known Mārtiņš Kazak for several years. We've not always been... one page. We have had many and serious disputes about the same devaluation. But overall, I think Mārtiņš Kazaks is a very good choice for the office of the President of the Bank of Latvia. I wish him well at work. At least I will support him for my part and call on my colleagues to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U27	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U28	Dear President, Honourable Members! I know that Mrs Voika did not think so, and that's why that's not exactly what she meant... But what she accidentally said was that so far the presidents of the Bank of Latvia were the biggest assholes, but of course it wasn't meant, because we wanted this time... We wish a new President of Latvia... The President of the Bank, and for the first time, I have to admit, there was something else because he was elected despite the fact that... I know that each coalition party had its own favorite, and yet you agreed on one, but... such a known bitterness, for no one asked us for anything. And then, of course, let us wait, perhaps, for the next decision, which... I don't wonder about anything anymore in recent months... In which whole Saeima... reduce your number... on the opposition... But we're at the same time... of course, we listened to everything ourselves, and I am really pleased that the selection of candidates... the candidates who were... applied was really good, and this time it was worth also assessing and looking at, and each showed their own pattern, and they were somewhat different, but something was also common. And I'd like to... I would therefore like to say, first of all, that the ZZS supports Mr. Kazaks in this item, and to say one wish from its previous experience: never, never think to climb up the ivory throne or feel like a ivory throne in the Bank of Latvia, from which you can then watch and teach others, but to be an active participant in all the economic and other processes in which the Latvian state needs the contribution of the Bank! Always think about the country and work in good faith! We support it, and I have no doubt that the vote will also be positive today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U29	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U30	Dear President, Honourable Members! If we are talking about the office of the President of the Bank of Latvia, then... I think the situation is more serious than it may seem at the beginning, and if we look at the last 10-15 years, we could call it the continuous incompetentness and bluffing period of the Bank of Latvia. First. We will remember the promises we received before joining the euro area, both from the members of the Board of the Bank of Latvia, experts and the President of the Bank, that investment will grow and gross domestic product will grow. And even the GDP forecast was promised to us... from 2014... an increase of eight billion per year by 2020. In fact, investments decreased and GDP did not increase at these rates either. Thus, Latvijas Banka had either made a mistake or had expanded its forecasts. The situation is, in fact, exactly the other way than envisaged. And it may be that it is the Bank of Latvia that a good president must also be a person who explains why everything is going on exactly the opposite of what was previously planned. Let's compare it. In 2018, the Polish economy grew by more than 5 percent (GDP), Hungary by more than 5 percent. Latvia also grew as exports increased until last year... Even more slowly than the countries of Central Europe and those outside the euro area, but this year this growth has stopped. Second quarter of 2019 according to Eurostat data: Poland - 4.5, Hungary - 4.9, the euro area - 1.2, Germany - 0.4, Latvia - 1.8 in the second quarter of 2019. Well, this year's results... We could have some 2.5. The European Union Portal... That's interesting... Political Union... there is an article by Claude Armana, a member of the Committee on Budgets of the European Parliament, on what rich countries are doing wrong or... why the money comes from the new European countries, from the east of Europe, to the west of Europe. The Bank of Latvia also told us that when we join the European Union and join the euro area, we will receive more than we repay. Then, here, Mr Armande has counted extremely precisely, and I think we need to believe in the European Parliament's Committee on Budgets. She says that all the new countries on average receive between 2 and 4 percent of GDP (we now have 1 percent - about 300 million) but return on average 4 to 8 percent to the rich countries. And specific data: the Czech Republic receives 2 per cent of GDP per year, pays 7 per cent of GDP per year, Hungary receives 3 per cent, gives 7 per cent, Poland receives 3 per cent, gives 5 per cent, Latvia and Lithuania gets a better situation - we get less than 4 per cent, well, and give it more. How does this return take place? This happens in a way that the new countries open up their markets. So these chains appear... Well, she has analysed Romania's experience. There, for example, all trade has been taken over by France as if. So co-payments on these European Union projects, cohesion projects, trade, bank loans, interest payments in total - huge cash flows from the new European Union countries to the old, rich countries. Second... What I wanted to say. The Bank of Latvia has a rather high level of irresponsibleness. For example, the suspended President of the Bank of Latvia, whose European Central... which the European Court of Justice has, however, now, partially justified, following the initiation of criminal proceedings against him... From June to October this year, he travelled more than 40 thousand euros. So a man who doesn't... Can I combine it with the other one?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U31	Are Members opposed to merging the two times of the debate? ( Interfaces: “No! ”) ) There are no objections.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U32	After the Financial and Capital Market Commission has been added, of course, the bank administration will be very interesting. And we know that apart from these four major banks, two of which are Americans, two Scandinavians, we still have 11 banks, perhaps half of which may have a problem. But now it will also be one of the main tasks of this new President of the Bank. But the last thing I'd like to say. If growth was based on exports until last year, then this export can practically stop because of the conflicts between the United States and China... in the context of trade wars which have begun. We know that now President Trump has said that import duties on French products will increase. France has imposed duties on the relevant major international corporations, such as Google, Facebook to pay taxes of up to 3 percent respectively. In fact, this trade can stop. What can we do? And perhaps it is the main task of the President of the Bank - is he the person who will listen to the European Central Bank when this debate on the economic policy of the European Union will take place, or can the European Central Bank promote the internal market? Why do we always point out that exports could be our main source of growth if these exports can stop, but the European Union, which is large enough with its 500 million citizens, does not encourage its own exports. We know the situation in Germany, which itself violated European Union rules... Where are the professions... So we need to promote internal consumption. And the interest of the small countries in the European Central Bank is different from that of the large countries. I therefore wish the new President of the Bank to show his spine and make it happen, so that at least someone listens to him in the European Central Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U33	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U34	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Honourable Members! I would like to talk a little bit from another point of view. I have heard a number of interviews, opinions from Mr. Kazak in relation... on the reform of the public administration. However, I would like to remind you of this (The Head of the sitting knocked down with a hammer.) ... I would like to remind the candidate of this situation in particular, since his point of view, let us say so, is not at the moment the situation that is... what progress is being made here in the Saeima, Members. So, again... Administratively, territorial reform is taking place. Of course, the first level is being created, combining the regions, but also the second level... Mr. Kazak, you should listen, not break. ... The bank’s specialists have quite a potential. Yes, there are quite smart people there, but when you look at these reform issues in the relevant commissions, you don't always have to say that from these specialists... logic and also linking it to the opinion that is currently the majority of the Saeima. So... in turn. First. The Saeima has voted for strategic goal 4 in the National Development Plan. So regional development. Second. However, the coalition has more or less agreed on the establishment of these administrative regions in accordance with Article 3 of the Satversme, which... is based on planning regions. So five administrative regions will probably be. Next. Regional development plays a very important role in many Member States of the European Union. Just a colleague, Mr Kirstein, mentioned Poland, Hungary. There, yes, there is this, second, level very stable, which determines the balanced development of the country; there are these regions. True in Poland and Hungary, they play a very important role. More and more often, our Saeima Members are asked this question on the second level. The last thing I remember - Mrs. Liepiņa had this discussion in the Riga TV 24 channel. Honor having honor, she normally answered, expressed her opinion, but the businessman who was there... his opinion was that only the centre, Riga, should be developed. Well, it's definitely wrong. There is democracy, of course, there is an opportunity to express opinions, but if such opinions prevail on television, which runs counter to the overall development of the country, our Members must, however, know as much as possible the reasons why these regions are needed. I would like to give one example. When Germany was defeated after the Second World War, allies restricted the development of its central power. What did the Germans do? At that point, they're very focused... power, the decision-making power was divided directly into regions, lands. And in fact, it was a miracle. These regions developed very rapidly in Germany, so the whole of Germany. It is a German phenomenon after the war. This principle was taken into account when the European Union was formed. The principle of regional development is now one of the main cornerstones of the European Union. We must not miss the opportunity of using this regional principle in our own country too. However, I wish Mr. Kazak step by step with the Saeima, with them... with the decision that is here for us, Members, and all his potential, which he will have, to involve bank experts and help with the development of the country. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U35	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U36	Hello, honourable Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, For my part, I would also like to congratulate Mr. Mārtiņš Kazak first of all on the fact that you are already - already! - The winner. You are at the Saeima building most recognized, at least right now, from three very good competitors. And, in my opinion, the whole process was actually very good and very exciting for society, because for the first time there were discussions, all the candidates came with their ideas on how the Bank of Latvia should work, and there was a real belief that anyone who would win would be worthy of this post, you included. But also a few words about what I have a vision of what you, as the President of the Bank of Latvia, should do. Well, one thing that we need to understand is that we are a member of the European Union, a member of the euro area, so that monetary policy is, to a large extent, being conducted at the moment by the ECB, where we will have one voice. Fiscal policy is limited, and we cannot play it actively in times of crisis or in very good economic times. We have Maastricht criteria which must be respected. What remains to promote the development of the Member State? These are structural reforms. And here the Bank of Latvia can really be a very good partner for the government in implementing such reforms. We also have very good experience in previous cooperation, such as tax reform. The Bank of Latvia has been a very good partner, both by making calculations, creating justifications and thinking about how better it should be. Similarly, there is now an administrative territorial reform - Mr Puce and the ministerial officials, in fact, on the question of what economic benefits will be... The only thing you can show is the Bank of Latvia's calculations. It is good news that we have at least some calculations and have done them by the Bank of Latvia. The bad news is, in my opinion, this study is not too high-quality... and the Bank of Latvia, as professionals in economic and socio-economic processes, should pay very much attention to the quality, especially knowing that sometimes you will be the only ones from where you can take an analysis. The other thing. The Financial and Capital Market Commission is likely to be attached to you, and you will have banking and capital market supervision at your disposal. Here are some things. Of course, one of the key tasks where you will have to help and... ensure there is a transformation of local equity banking business models. This is only in the start-up period, but I think we are all interested in actually making some of the local capital banks strong and able to create competition in lending the internal market. One more thing. Scandinavian banks... Indeed, as the President of the Bank of Latvia, you would also be invited to work with them and still try to maintain sufficient representation of Scandinavian capital banks here, so that there would be as little transformation from subsidiaries to branches as possible, which would mean that we would have fewer controls, less safety cushions, such as in the guarantee fund, and thus less stability of the financial or banking market. In this context, of course, I think that the Bank of Latvia could also play a much more active role in strengthening the capital market, which I believe has been neglected by the FCMC. Partly understandable, because all the light of the storms is now on the banking sector, but the development of the capital market is also one of the essential prerequisites for economic development. And next in this context. I think that it is also important to think about alternative financial instruments or institutions, and I have spent on the development of companies. It is also a priority for our political power, and we will appreciate it if you do not neglect this direction as Head of the Bank of Latvia. In the context of CML... Well, it's gonna be the luggage that's coming with you, too, with the FKTK's taking over. As President of the Bank of Latvia, I would also invite you, at European level, to discuss and support, in the context of the ECB, the idea of centralised, unified European money laundering... the implementation of the monitoring of the prevention of terrorist financing. Whether on the basis of the ECB or as an independent institution, or on the basis of the EVU - that is, I would say, a matter of taste, but I would very much ask you to support it. Talking about the Bank of Latvia as a government partner. It is not only support for structural reforms, advice... I think this is also a question of money. At least for the last two years we see that in the process of drawing up the State budget of Latvia it has not been particularly constructive or such a collegiate or timely, because the Bank of Latvia is working with profit each year and at the end of each year decides how much of these funds to leave in reserves, how much to channel to Latvia's public budget to deal with the issues that are painful or topical to us...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U37	Mrs. Reizniece-Ozola, the time for the debate...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U38	Is it possible to extend it?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U39	Do Members object to the unification of the time of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U40	Thank you. And the situation is that only to the second reading suddenly additional funds are removed from one pocket, which as if Latvijas Banka can be diverted from its profits in the state budget. This process must be timely, transparent, so that the Ministry of Finance, the government as a whole and the Saeima can count on a certain amount of funding. Not for the second reading to deal with a burning matter, but in time... And finally. Information to the public. As Minister for Finance, I met with the former President of the Central Bank of Germany, As well as Mr Barcelona Weber, and we discussed European monetary policy. And what was striking? He very much appreciated the fact that German society, every citizen, who is much less educated and interested in political and economic processes, is very actively discussing European monetary policy. This does not happen in Latvia. In Latvia, I think, this does not happen to a large extent because the public does not have any information at all about the processes that take place at European level. And this is where the President of the Bank of Latvia plays a major role. If the President of the Bank of Latvia does not sit in the ivory tower, as the former Prime Minister said, but is actively involved in the discussion not only with senior politicians but also with society, explains the decisions, creates the interest that you managed, in my opinion, to create in this selection process, the Latvian society will become much more educated, more interested and able to be a support and advisor. So late for work!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U41	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U42	Dear Saeima! Dear Mr. Kazak! You are not yet elected President of the Bank of Latvia, but you can see that one of your plans is already being implemented - it is the economic debate in the Saeima that has begun. After about 10 minutes and 20 seconds you will become President of the Bank of Latvia. That is clear. However, I wanted to say that I wanted to support other applicants who, in my view, would be more successful in bringing Latvia out of the vicious circle. And since I do not have this option now, I will not participate in the vote. However, knowing and respecting the scientific, analytical and political capacity of Mr. Kazaks, as well as the capacity of the post of the Director of the Bank of Latvia, I will allow you to name a few things that... That is, the three who, as far as I am concerned, call on Mr Kazak to pay particular attention to his new position. First. And I have already spoken about this at your sitting, Mr Kazak, our commission, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. The aim of Latvijas Banka should be to extend the provision of price stability to the promotion of maximum employment. Maintaining price stability and promoting maximum employment are two interrelated objectives of classical monetary policy. They form a pair. They are indistinguishable: in times of downturn in the economic cycle, the application of monetary policy instruments promotes employment, while maintaining low inflation rates and stable prices in order to secure economic growth in good times, without allowing the economy to overheat. Both key objectives become priorities at different stages of the economic cycle. In turn, the practice shows that one of the two objectives is not in a legally binding document, i.e. the Law “On the Bank of Latvia”, it is easy to separate from its observance, as former Chairman of the Governing Council of the European Central Bank Jean-Claude Trichet, for his mandate was only – only! - low inflation. And the results are obvious. Ben Bernank, President of the US Federal Reserve System Council, had a mandate and duty to reduce unemployment. And he kept low rates until unemployment dropped to six percent, keeping inflation at two and a half per cent. This allowed America to emerge from the crisis already in 2010, but in the European Union, the crisis has become a long-standing stagnation. Secondly. Europe is rapidly approaching its understanding that a strong austerity policy is failing, that a fiscal compact strategic audit is necessary and that an audit of the Stability and Growth Pact is required in the same way. What's getting clearer... is that public investment must be a priority for ensuring national competitiveness, so the gold law of public financing must be included on the European Union's agenda. This states that within the economic cycle, the government can borrow investment rather than current expenditure and that no public investment is made! - are listed in the calculation of the budget deficit. Thirdly. Investment is lacking not only in Latvia, but in the Member States of the European Union as a whole. And it's not just a lack of Latvia, but the fault of the whole euro area. The genetic defect is manifested by the fact that, as prices rise, the country has no opportunity to protect its external competitiveness by devaluing its currency, because the currency is one for the whole union, the whole confederation. Next cause. The state cannot borrow above the limit, because strict austerity policies restrict public loans, as I have said. So two financial policy tools go by. Another one remains, which is being actively used by the European Union and whose application in Latvia was started in 2018. And this tool is the progressive personal income tax. But is the progressive nature of the current tax... enough in Latvia? Two more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U43	Do Members object to the unification of the time of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U44	Can I? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Thank you, colleagues. In my view, progressivity in tax application in Latvia is slow and inconsistent. If a company's income is distributed in dividends, it is subject to 20 per cent income tax and this rate is not progressing, it is a flat rate. Both the owner of the cafe and the person on the Forbes list pay 20 percent of the tax. Thus, the principle of progressivity applies to salaries, but does not apply to dividends. And here's the answer, where to take money to fulfil the duties of the state before teachers and medical practitioners. Income tax dividends should also be subject to the principle of progressivity. The system must be reformed. And I have allies here. I remind you, Mr. Pouce, of the fright to speak out of this troupe, even when he was a Member... when he said that the solidarity tax should be abolished and that all laws should be merged into one by simplifying them. Minister Viņķele has also made a public statement very recently, and I hope that Mr Kazak has also noticed that combating the shadow economy alone cannot deliver sufficient results. Accordingly, tax increases should also be considered. And as the first area, the Minister mentioned taxes on capital gains that are lower than wages. Accordingly, the government should assess this framework for the next budget. I, when I finish my speech, wish Mr Kazak in his new position - because it is clear that he will be elected with your votes, colleagues - to be courageous and remember that he may perhaps be the only person, the only person in a country that will really have an impact on financial policy in the European Union at the meetings that will take place in Frankfurt and Brussels. Whether our Prime Minister is as influential as the Director, Manager of the Bank of Latvia... Maybe more influential... than he will be within the Republic of Latvia. Thank you for your attention. (Applause) Good luck, Mr. Kazak!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U45	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U46	First of all, I wanted to say that this is the first and, in fact, the only time that, when choosing a Latvian state official, it is not a political market, but a real, obvious competition. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Urbanovich: “You just don’t know what it was!” ) There have been no other cases. All the other times have been just a political market and a pre-negotiation. This is very good because we are talking about the Head of the Bank of Latvia. Although some colleagues say that I simply do not know, I am too young and I simply do not know how it was actually, let me think this was a real fight for the item in question. But there are some tar spoons that I want to pour into a honey barrel. These tar spoons are not related to a candidate who is certainly a high-class professional and who can certainly be congratulated today on the fact that he will be elected to the office of President of the Bank of Latvia, but on the procedure that I have spoken about earlier from this platform. In my opinion, this procedure is not the right one in Latvia - and the roll of order of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia is not appropriate - that we elect one of the highest officials of Latvia and this official is not entitled to climb this platform and express her vision of what she will do in this post. In my opinion, such a procedure should be changed. Such proposals have been made by the Legal Commission of the Saeima, but have not yet been adopted. And so again we're doing a little bit of a little theatre here. As a member of the Saeima, I would like to hear a speech from the candidate for the office of President of the Bank of Latvia from the Parliamentary Tribunal - what his goals are and what he would do in this post. And finished. Although I regard you, Mr. Kazak, as a high-class professional, I will not take part in the vote, not because I have claims against you as President of the Bank of Latvia, but because... You were not interested in presenting your vision to the group of independent Members, so I do not have a personal view of you and I cannot take part in this vote, even though I know about you, I can only say positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U47	Mrs Stepanenko, would you have four minutes to break? The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U48	Dear colleagues, Dear Mr. Kazak! As my colleague Aldis Gobzems said, we, as independent Members, unfortunately do not have the opportunity to question the candidate respectfully. We're not going to do that at the cafe or somewhere on the street. The Bureau could come up against us in this regard and give us a room where we could meet with such candidates in order to find out their views. And I would like to wish Mr. Kazak a real independence. True independence in the sense that he will very soon have to... Well, he's coming... There may be some attempts to clear the coalition from the responsibility for the grey list, from the responsibility for why our financial system is in such a difficult situation at the moment. And in view of the really high position that Mr. Kazak will take, he would benefit most from a really firm spine and independence from all those who will try to wash their fur at the expense of the Bank of Latvia. And the latter is also willing to think about strengthening Latvia's independence, strengthening its sovereignty with regard to the Latvian gold reserves, which are still stored in the Bank of England - 7.7 tons, which is equivalent to approximately 300 million euros. In fact, one of the guarantors of our independence is currently in a very different country - contrary to the fact that Hungary, Poland and the Netherlands have already repatriated their gold reserves. I believe - and I think that many of my colleagues will support their views - that we should also think about how we could repatriate our gold back to Latvia, Latvia, and this would also be a very good task for Mr Kazak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U49	Dear colleagues, Members Adamovich, Ples, Pucens, Strike and Bondar request that the sitting be held without interruption until the agenda item 10. Do Members have objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) ; “No!” ) And objections? ( GREEN’S INTERPRETATION: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Please call us! Let us vote for the parliamentary session to continue without interruption until the agenda item 10. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 54, it's against - 22, it's not. Consequently, we shall continue the sitting of the Saeima without interruption until the agenda item 10. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Arvil Asheraden.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U50	Dear colleagues, I think this will be a very important vote... that will soon follow. Starting with the selection process itself. I would definitely like to thank all four candidates who were found by the parties and who themselves applied for this post, on behalf of my own name and also on behalf of the whole group, on behalf of the Group's New Unity. And everyone was really remarkable, but one, as we can see, at the very end... The coalition agreed to choose one candidate whose characteristics seemed... and the capacity seemed to be the most appropriate for this post. Why a lot of thanks? I would like to say that this is not necessarily the best moment in the history of the Bank of Latvia, and in fact the President of the Bank of Latvia is facing extremely difficult tasks. And taking them is truly respectful, truly respectful, that this candidate is ready to take on these duties. First of all, I would like to say that Latvijas Banka is in a new cycle of development. And this historic cycle is over. Unfortunately, to a large extent... I must say that many parts of the criticism that have been voiced here must join me. The President of Latvijas Banka will have to start by developing a new vision of development in cooperation with Parliament, the government and the financial sector as a whole. I hope that this will result in a new Law of the Bank of Latvia. It must also be said that these things must include very many extremely serious problems that... What are we... what the President of the Bank would possess from the previous time. First of all, we must talk about eliminating the consequences of international sanctions. It must be said that this is an urgent work that will have to be done together with the Financial and Capital Market Commission, because we see that this situation, as it has developed at the moment, is that the banking sector has not really taken part in the growth of the previous economic cycle... It seems that this way, if it continues... will not... will not contribute to Latvia's economic growth. If we are talking about the banking sector itself, there is a need for substantial development here too. We see in this situation the situation of four banks... the situation of four systemic banks does not contribute to the overall market development challenges. The vision for the development of the banking sector is... just as there is a need for active action on this international market... the result of non-compliance with financial market rules. The next difficult thing is, of course, the development of the capital market. I have to say that this has been a major problem for a long time. At present, alternative financing in the Latvian markets without the banking sector is practically close to zero. There is also a need for active action by the President of the Bank. But the last one, and I think it's the most important one. It is a question of the reputation of the Bank and Latvia as a whole. Latvia's reputation in this sector has been undermined very seriously by the actions of individual banks and our situation with oligarchs, which we are currently seeing, as well as by the previous President of the Bank has ensured that the reputation of the Bank of Latvia and its management is seriously called into question. If we talk about the bank, then the bank has nothing more than a reputation, and it is not only a question of the bank itself, it is a question of the state, of the international competitiveness of the country, and here I wish the most success to the new President of the Bank of Latvia in fighting for the restoration of the reputation of the Bank of Latvia in this sector as soon as possible, as well as the reputation of the state of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U51	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. ( The drug is noise. FROM THE GROUP SOUND: “Nothing, nothing! You wanted it!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U52	Good afternoon, Colleagues! I would call for the illusions to be unlooped. A political market was also held for the President of the Bank, which simply did not happen, and so he acted like that anecdote: then the honest one! And the result is really good. Personally I am. Medicines cause noise.) ... Personally, I will support Mārtiņš Kazak because I believe that he is one of the rare bank economists who can look at economic processes more broadly... than just at fiscal level. And I think it is very valuable for the Head of the Bank of Latvia. And that's why I'd ask Mārtiņš not to rush... don’t rush with “loosting blood” in the Bank of Latvia, because... Maybe... If you look at what the Bank of Latvia can do, the Bank of Latvia really is one of the rare institutions that really has brain potential, there is also financial potential. And maybe you can make these people open the salary that you are now paying before they are fired, and maybe they will not have to be fired. And it is possible that they will be able to do things that can be very useful for the whole economy, especially for policy-makers. And indeed this dialogue between the Bank of Latvia and the Saeima would be very useful, because we are here... It is obvious that this intellectual potential on economic issues and, to be sure, on many other issues... remains wanting a better... I think it's better. And that is why this idea of a debate would really be very good; the Bank of Latvia could propose it and come here with its report on which we could debate. And one of the things I would like to call for is that the Bank of Latvia could look at where it could really help politicians when talking about the development of our country. This is due to the opportunities that our country is currently not using, for example, with this European Central Bank financial... in Latvian, softening program... That is, this huge money that comes... to Latvia... billions that are intended for Latvia and that pass the Latvian economy, because our politicians simply do not know how to take it. And here the Bank of Latvia could come and help first intellectually, and maybe then politicians would also be able to get in because of the policy of frailty that we see around... its results are now visible. If we do not do these necessary homework, then I am afraid we can lose Latvia as our country; this is already happening. Therefore, Mārtiņš, I personally put great expectations on you and hope that this cooperation between the Bank of Latvia and the Saeima will be successful in this very sense, in terms of intellectual potential, and could give much. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U53	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U54	Good morning, colleagues! In this discussion about the election of the President of the Bank of Latvia this morning, we have heard a lot about both what the Bank of Latvia could have done so far and what it has not done, and what place the Bank of Latvia has in the entire European banking system and what responsibility the President of the Bank of Latvia has for that system, as a member of the Council of the European Central Bank. It should be said that the discussion on whether Mārtiņš Kazāks - it is Mārtiņš Kazāks - could be the President of the Bank of Latvia, started already 12. In the family. At the moment when it was necessary to seek new members of the Council of the Bank of Latvia. And then there was a fight. There was a fight for Mārtiņš to be on the Council of the Bank of Latvia. He had a sufficiently serious opponent - already with experience in this work. And then, in this discussion - either unequivocally or with the unanimous support of Members - Martins prevailed. And already at the time - when we discussed this issue at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission of the previous Saeima - Martin was given the opportunity to be present and to demonstrate the competences that were discussed today. And if there had been a question at that time about who of the candidates considered at that time is most worthy to be president of the Bank of Latvia, already at that time he would have been focused on such an item. So I don't want to take your time. I wish Mr. Kazak well, courage, endurance, because your support will be! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U55	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add? No, no. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Election of Mārtiņš Kazaks as President of the Bank of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 76, for - no, for - 1. Congratulations to Mārtiņš Kazaks! (Applause) (See the box below.) Dear colleagues, Time to break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U56	Not registered: Raimonds Bergmanis, Boriss Cilevičs, Jānis Dombrava, Ilmārs Dūritis... Yes, Aivars Geidan, Mary Golubeva... is, Artuss Kaimiņš, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Rihards Kols, Ainars Latkovskis, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Ināra Mūrniece... Yes (I. Mūrniece: “It’s probably a mistake!” ), Ivan Ribakov, Lubova Švecova, Viktors Valainis, Inese Voika... Yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U57	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U58	Honourable Members! We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. I invite you to take up seats in the Chamber so that we can get back to work! On the agenda - draft decision “On re-approval of Zita Zariņa as a member of the Council of the State Audit Office”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U59	Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 10 December this year, the draft decision “On the re-approval of Zita Zariņa as a member of the Council of the State Audit Office” was reviewed. Since 21 December 2015, Zita Zariņa has been a member of the Council of the State Audit Office, Director of the Audit and Methodology Department. In fulfilling the duties of a member of the State Audit Council, Zita Zarina has participated in strategic management of the institution in accordance with the tasks of the State Audit Council as set by the Law on the State Audit Office, including adopting decisions on the approval of internal legal acts, such as strategic documents, budgetary requests, taking decisions on the examination of complaints, participating in the examination of draft audit reports. As Director of the Audit and Methodology Department, Zita Zariņa has managed and organized the work of the Department, ensuring the conduct of audits of the annual accounts and preparation of opinions The Saeima on the annual accounts, ensuring the conduct of financial audits in the Central Electoral Commission, as well as the conduct of performance audits. Zita Zariņa has appropriate professional knowledge and experience to continue to perform the duties of a member of the State Audit Council. The members of the Legal Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Zita Zarina to reaffirm her membership of the Council of the State Audit Office with effect from 21 December 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U60	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U61	Colleagues! It is important that we, the Saeima, build a political culture and a political... Let us say, political traditions in the country. And, you know, it's funny that the group, as such, is not one of the members of the State Audit Office... None of the members of the State Audit Office had the opportunity to meet. The Legal Commission voted, and everything is progressing. I can feel like a pot presser. Don't be clear. I will press the button for both members of the State Audit Office. I'm just asking you to give us some time to meet in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U62	I closed the debate. Would there be anything to add on behalf of the Legal Commission? No, no. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the re-approval of Zita Zariņa as a member of the Council of the State Audit Office! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. The President of the Republic of Crimea is hereby authorised to designate the person(s) empowered to sign the Agreement on behalf of the European Union and to sign the Agreement on behalf of the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on behalf of the Union. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U63	At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 10 December this year, the draft decision “On re-approval of Edgars Korčagins as a member of the State Audit Council” was reviewed. Since 21 December 2015, Edgars Korčagins has been a member of the Council of the State Audit Office, Director of the Fifth Audit Department. As a member of the Council of the State Audit Office, Edgars Korčagins has been involved in strategic management of the institution in accordance with the tasks of the State Audit Council as set out in the Law on the State Audit Office, thus taking decisions on the approval of internal legal acts (e.g. strategic documents, budget requests), taking decisions on the examination of complaints, participating in the examination of audit reports. As Director of the Fifth Audit Department Edgars Korčagins has led and organized the work of the Department, ensuring that the audits are carried out in the municipalities, has ensured the annual annual accounts of the... in the part of the municipality... carrying out audits. Edgars Korčagins has appropriate professional knowledge and experience to continue to perform the duties of a member of the State Audit Council. The members of the Legal Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on Edgars Korčagins to reaffirm his membership of the Council of the State Audit Office with effect from 21 December 2019. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U64	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the re-approval of Edgars Korčagins as a member of the Council of the State Audit Office! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. Decision adopted. Treatment of requests by Members Requests received by Members. We have received a request from Member Jūlija Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Ulda Augulis, Armanda Krauze, Gundars Dūtes, Didžas Šmita, Jānis Dūklavs, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Alda Gobzems and Janis Vucanas, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pucem, about the self-governance of the Minister, setting up the Central Electoral Commission and publicly misleading society. The request shall be open to all Members. The request shall be submitted to the Requesting Commission. Examination of draft laws. Draft Law ‘Amendments to the Law on Ports’, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U65	Hello! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Ports” (No. 515/Lp13) this morning. And so I wanted to point out a little what is then in this bill. First of all, you know that we have three major ports in Latvia, which are managed as derived public administration institutions. And in this case it is the Freeport of Ventspils and the Freeport of Riga, both of which are important players in the Latvian transit sector. And, as I said, when talking about handing over the draft law to the commission, the government has also concluded that both the port of Ventspils and the port of Riga are exposed to a high risk of corruption and therefore immediate... urgent reforms in the management of these ports. And in this regard, I would like to point out that, therefore, in the draft law, the most important change is that if... As we know, both in the Freeport of Riga and Ventspils there are now eight board members, where four are appointed by the local government and four are appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers... representing four different ministries. And so after these amendments... These amendments provide that... four board members, both Riga and Ventspils, instead of eight. And so these board members, appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers, directly control port work... immediately - after the law has been proclaimed. And the draft law also provides that the law shall enter into force the day after its publication. That means - well, the question of the coming days is that. And, of course, the draft law also regulates the quorum requirement at board meetings. At the Commission meeting, it should be noted that various such false statements and questionable natures have been dispelled, I do not know whether... How do you tell me... false messages... Maybe for someone they're just right... reasonable suspicion that changes to the executive body may have some effect on the port area or land located in the port, and so on. These concerns were addressed at the Commission's meeting. Consequently, the port area does not depend on the management board of the port. So, for example, there was such a question. And its concerns were dispelled. And since, overall, there was no such thing in the commission... There was no objection to the progress of the bill... as it has also been sent in a letter... - Saeima to the Presidium... In this respect, the Commission also supported the recognition of the draft law as urgent. Then please accept the draft law...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U66	... as urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U67	... as urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U68	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Ports”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 46, it's against - 22, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U69	Well, yes, and the Commission is also asking to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U70	Let us start a debate. The name of the Minister of Transport to Far Linkaith.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U71	President of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, We live in a turbulent time... in a situation where events change from day to day. And also for the transit sector there are worrying times. As you know, on 9 December, the relevant authorities in the USA decided to include one natural and four legal persons on the sanctions list, including, unfortunately, the Freeport of Ventspils administration. Accordingly, as a government, we should have taken immediate action to separate the activities of the port of Ventspils from the direct or indirect influence of authorised persons, and to ensure that our transit industry continues to work, that our ports continue to function successfully and that port companies have confidence in how... within which legal framework we will continue to work in which financial framework. And here I would like to remind you that the port of Ventspils is our second largest port in Latvia - with a turnover of 20 million tons per year. There are not only port terminals - 14 -, but also 38 manufacturing companies that export their products to all countries of the world. In these companies, production companies related to the port, there are 2500 people, in port terminals - 1200, in free port administration - 250. Not to mention the impact this port has on the whole further logistics and transport chain, on “Latvian Railways” and other stakeholders. Therefore, we need to act quickly, decisively, because our competitors do not break, and there are already statements that they will try to intercept the cargoes passing through the port of Ventspils, to shift them to our neighbours. So at the extraordinary meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers we decided to ask the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission for these amendments, which would already be presented to you, to be followed by an urgent procedure. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) We decided to hand over or, more precisely, to take over the board of the Freeport - Riga and Ventspils... boards, under the control of the State. I agree that these actions will not yet be able to mitigate all the consequences that the US decisions will have for us. It is possible that additional legal mechanisms will be needed to ensure successful work of the port of Ventspils, and if necessary, we will address you with appropriate proposals... any further changes to the law. I would also like to remind you that this government was set up to combat corruption and to establish good public administration, including in port areas, and our government declaration included and remains an issue of improving port management. Managing ports - this is a work planned in advance, we have been working on it. Several steps in that direction have already been taken. But these events have encouraged us to work more quickly in this direction of governance, and therefore the draft law also provides that by 1 July 2020, we will present to the Saeima an evaluation of the model of managing ports. If possible, we will do so as soon as possible, we will talk to all the parties involved and we will present it to the Saeima. Colleagues Krišjānis Feldmans has already mentioned that various false judgments are being distributed in connection with this particular draft law. I would like to emphasise once again that the amendments tabled at the moment do not change either port charges, funding arrangements or any other operating principles. Only the procedure for appointing and withdrawing the members of the management board on the managing board of ports has been changed. I call on you to deal with this situation and to support the Government's proposals and the draft law adopted by the Saeima's Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U72	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U73	Dear Members, Speaker of the Saeima! Minister! Yesterday evening, after receiving this offer, such different reflections took place. I will not talk about the reasons at this point, nor will I talk about behaviour conceptually. Everyone's clear... and even ZZS would vote in favour of saving the Ventspils port and doing everything necessary to avoid the loss of absolutely all cargoes there, so that people get a salary for Christmas. It is simply a conversation in the case of it, and it must be done to escape it. Of course, there's a question... What is the question for the Prime Minister - will it be enough? Will it guarantee that during this 30-day period the Freeport of Ventspils will leave this black list and nothing... at least the employees will not be threatened... No one doubts that the economy will be hit. However, that would be consistent. But given that yesterday also suddenly appeared... Why not take Riga with you? After all, the barrack is everywhere... What could I say... I could also begin to transfer the whole bardac of their management right away. I'm sorry... Unfortunately, in the departments governed by public administration... and, if you are now looking for some big examples of this kind, then I think the only example of good management, where people are not reddened (also for the time being - there are indications), is “Latvian State Forests”. And maybe just because Stripper's first one who tried to do something... it was sent to KNAB at some time. But the following considerations. The first reflection is about the signal. I read: “The Government has concluded that Ventspils Freeport and Riga Freeport are at high risk of corruption.” And then I want to say, “Hello, investors! If someone else thought if anyone else had doubts about moving away from Riga, to move to Lithuania or Estonia or somewhere else, now it has become absolutely clear.” And the second thought is that I used to... I am always trying to be correct and to say good words about the government and about its decisions, if they are, but I sometimes accidentally spelt out that there is one subject that the government does not think about, and the coalition - at all, and that is the economy. After that I was afraid, I thought - I probably had to get too cold - I was suffering from it, but now I'm not really learning anymore, because it seems to me that it shows it... This narrow, I would like to say, Mrs Strique's view: it is the bad one, he must be dragged down, he must be destroyed, but we do not have to look at the rest, because something will happen in this country too, and something will already be there. Question... I return to the port of Riga and to the port system at all. I also convinced you in the informal talks yesterday that it seems to me that a very large part is not quite clear how these ports function because... Even it seemed that Lemberg was expecting ships, unloading cargoes, affecting, taking money legally, illegally, and everything is happening. In fact, at the moment, there is a model that Latvia has chosen - to develop a public person, just like a municipality. And, in fact, this project, which you put forward, is also talking about the body - it is about people who come together successfully or fail every time they win. The municipality in the port has invested all its land, buildings, and the state seems to be some kind of building... There's something. And all this must be managed for the benefit of Latvia, so that something happens in this territory, including both water and earth. This land, the waters are rented out to the styvidors, and these are those who actually land in or out of the ships. What is unique for Latvia and good - that in these areas you can also bring entrepreneurs with your own factories, like Mr. Peļēna, in Liepaja, for example, is using it very successfully... Liepāja is the best example ever. For some three years now, we have been talking to Riga that it should also be used for Riga. Riga does not do that for hardly any reason. So I can say positive words about the current leadership... Under Mr. Zeltin's leadership... But in the past, I also obeyed. At the same time... Of course, right now... to realize that those victims are already exactly the ones who land and load... their employees may not be paid... They must ensure governance... What you're talking about today... and where the municipalities are taken out... It's such a body... Well, let's be honest, who doesn't even have that kind of... I'll tell you what it is: there's no real thing to do. The main thing to be very... administration... very, very... Who wants, of course... Like us, Members of the Saeima... who wants to find a job, but if you don't want to, you can't find a job. So... then... they rent... this superstructure rents all the rest of the... But in general, everyone needs to make sure that the loads grow. And now we come back to Riga. Why do I think that this is the most unpleasant, worst signal that the Latvian Parliament is going to give to all those who watch Latvia from outside and want to invest here today? Riga turnover - 31.5 million, and every tonne handled - 10.7 Okay, so far, 31.5 million of it or 36.4 gives... Give... No... For now... For the time being, there is a large proportion of transit. Coal... Now after... Two years ago... after the agreements that the Latvian state had with Belarus at the time... a certain part... He moved oil cargos from Lithuania to Latvia. But what pleases me most in Riga at the moment - that 31.5 million is the turnover that local entrepreneurs send through our port. And what I don't like there... in these figures - that still a very high percentage is where our entrepreneurs send out goods through Klaipeda, send them out through Tallinn. And back to the signal, I also believe that the point... and it can be contrary to what is thought probably also by the municipalities involved... and they must also be in the new form... But the point at which Far Linkait and the Ministry of Transport are asked to prepare a new model of management... Yes, I also believe that perhaps this one is outdated, this one is created in the 1990s... We have to introduce something modern, so that... if only it is not meant that there will be an appropriate meeting of the next Saeima at some time in the spring, which will decide to nationalize all the lands and all the properties that are located in the municipality, and to place their own (Interest call.) ... Yes, if they were all the best managers, I would believe, but your practice unfortunately now shows that, well, not in all places the best are found. I hope there will be an analysis. I hope it will be a collaboration for all to choose Latvia competitive and the best... the best model. But my prognosis is that after today, after that... that after this signal investors are expected to have a very big drop... And don't forget, however, that port sharing in the economy is quite important! And then you don't have to cry that you can't find something in the budget, then you don't have to cry that the economy goes down. I will submit a proposal to the second (Dep. J. Strike’s intermediate call.) ... I will submit to the second reading a proposal to remove the Freeport of Riga from this port at least. This does not apply to those further models that need to be developed. But at the moment, remove the signal that... If someone is stealing, please have applications. The same good representatives of the country (inter-sales.) - Where are they? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Feldman: “How many applications have you written?” ) I don’t work at the port. Now's your time, little man! And now. — Dep. ( K. Feldman's intermediate call.) ... think today before taking a final decision on this matter! We would also support all those efforts, everything that is being done to save Ventspils turnover in this situation, the Ventspils people working in these ports. But you've just hooked up because there's some people here who want to... I have the impression that the coalition is already led by Mrs Strike, not by Mr Kariņš. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U74	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U75	Colleagues! Madam President of the Saeima. First of all, I thank the Minister for trying to react quickly and at least put forward some proposals. But I also believe that it is in the regulation that someone... what amendments have been made, it is not enough on the one hand and too much on the other. And I'll try to explain why. Compared to medicine, if there is any cancer, it is not untreated, but cut out the heart. Unfortunately, that is what you are doing at the moment. Because there are problems in the port of Ventspils, you destroy the entire port system in Latvia and create huge risks. The port of Ventspils is really toxic at the moment, and I know from experience of pulling parallels with the financial sector, that in such a situation, when the port is included in the list of sanctions, not only those entrepreneurs who work there directly, but all the partners who do the smallest deal with the port may have trouble. Well, like ABLV Bank, the formal ban was only to deal with US market players, but practically all of them - both European and other financial market players - were isolated because they realized that they were not supposed to do so. And in this situation, of course, you should understand what to do to those entrepreneurs who are currently working in the port. It seems to me that it would be normal to try to drag them to another port in Latvia - Liepaja or Riga - in such a crisis situation. But if you give a signal at the same time that there is nothing wrong in Riga and that it may have serious problems, and that the government will try to carry out serious governance reforms at the moment, then why should I, as an entrepreneur who is currently working in the port of Ventspils and would like to change my place, because I have to do my job, look in the direction of Riga at all? More logical, even closer, is the port of Klaipeda. And the Minister himself said that competitors were not missing. But why help competitors? I do not really understand that. If you want to grab the port of Riga, wait at least! The crisis situation is like a fire, and then it is usually tried to limit and extinguish the fire, not to heat it somewhere else, so that the fire can strike... It's gonna be more fun together. That's one thing. The other thing. On the measures. Why do I say that it is not enough? If someone thinks that the Freeport of Ventspils will only be removed from the sanctions list due to a reduction in the number of employees in the port administration, it is ablation. That's not enough. And that is why we already need a clear government plan today, which is still to be done to remove the port from the list of sanctions. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strikķe: “What did you do to prevent her from getting there?” ) What else will be done to remove the port from the list of sanctions? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strikķe: “What did you do as a minister?” ) And again parallels. If someone thinks, for example, that a bank that has trouble in the same context would change its management and remove it from the list of sanctions... It doesn't happen. Therefore, in the near future, we ask you, the government, and you Minister, to come up with concrete proposals so that we can have the confidence that there is a really real plan, because the situation is critical at the moment. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Thanks to what?” ) Besides the fact that day-to-day operations cannot be carried out in a port, wages cannot be paid, people come after funeral benefits, and accountants are glad that there is cash in the cash register that can... that can support those people who do not have the biggest wages. Six major projects are in implementation, where builders and cooperation partners expect payments. And these are events that cannot wait months, not even months. So it's the other thing where without this formal cosmetic action there is an urgent plan needed. Third. Then when you think about some kind of reform, think again how serious it seems that you want to set up a capital company with 35 thousand equity capital to manage... operations with nearly billion assets. It's not convincing!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U76	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U77	Dear Mrs. Mourniece! Dear colleagues, For many years politicians have been pretending to see opaque cash flows in both Riga and Ventspils ports, laying their own positions, that ports are used as a tool for political trading. Ports have so far been like kingdoms controlled by a limited range of people. Accordingly, those who... close to these people. What's more, many pretended to know who's... who have been these persons and still pretend to be all right, even though the US Treasury Foreign Asset Control Bureau has taken a decision to include Aivars Lembergs in the sanctions list together with Ventspils Freeport. The consequences of the propensity are losses to people, the municipality and the state. Through the “Latvia and Ventspils” party, this person is still an official partner of one of the political forces represented in the Saeima. If you continue to pretend, the consequences will be terrible. At first, we can see it only at the Freeport of Ventspils, but without action, you can do likewise at the Freeport of Riga. The adoption of this bill is necessary to save the situation. But this will only be the first step, because cancer metastases are too far off. Please support this, as well as support for the further steps that will be needed to resolve the situation. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U78	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U79	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! The situation is very bad at the moment, and I understand that the draft law is necessary and action is required not only by the government, but also by Parliament. But what am I reading in the explanatory memorandum of the bill? ‘ The government has concluded that the port of Ventspils and Riga is at high risk of corruption, thus urgent reforms are needed in the management of these ports in order to meet the priority set out in the government declaration for the fight against corruption and to improve the management of these ports.” Will reducing the number of board members from eight to four improve port management? No, no! Everything else will remain the same. All the more... If the government is talking about a high risk of corruption, I would like to remind you that the politicians of the ruling coalition are now also in port management and... the managing bodies of the ports. And the municipalities are not the majority at all. There's four against four. And if we look... if we are talking about the annual accounts, about the main decisions that are made on port development, then... Government representatives vote and confirm the same as local government leaders. Then the representative of the government should have been in opposition all the time. And if you're talking about this shadow of corruption, then... I understand, for example, that the shadow of corruption falls over Ģirts Valdis Kristovskis, who is a politician. Then the shadow of corruption also falls over the head of the office of the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce, Lila Spaliņš, who is on the managing board of the port. So you have to understand that? And if we look at it as a whole, this situation is even more unpleasant, knowing what the sponsors of the New Conservative Party are and what the wishes of these sponsors are. Here I would like to say that, for example, the TV3 programme "Nothing Personal" has been pointing back for some time... on Peter Aloiz Raguš, who is one of the largest donors of the New Conservative Party, has contributed funds to the pre-election campaign before the Saeima elections and who is trying to develop a liquefied gas terminal in Skulte port, which I think is the fourth largest port in Latvia (Dep. Feldman: “He is also the honorary consul of Latvia!” )... different types. And all the worse - he is the honorary consul of Latvia, and he drives business into his own interests... and through the political party. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strikķe: “It’s bad?” ) I will tell you what its salt is in the port of Skulte... what these investors want. These investors want infrastructure, of course, to be their private property, because no one wants rental contracts. They want to take over, buy, privatise or dispose of - call what you want. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) And they're BIP sponsors. Moreover, they also want guarantees from the state. So I think in this case the New Conservative Party is... support scheme... a new OIC to defraud millions from the country. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Muizniece: “Support scheme – don’t steal!” ) For example, this same... Sponsors of the new conservative party: what do they want? They want this liquefied gas, which will be transported through the Scout, to be guaranteed by the state... that will buy Latvenergo and other state-owned companies. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “What is the relation to the draft law?” ) It is absurd. Well, apparently now the New Conservative wants to extend its influence on the ports of Riga, to the ports of Ventspils, may be that... so there don't interfere with business in the sculpture... But maybe now the terminal for liquefied gas will be set up in Riga, because it is much closer to Latvenergo to bring it here from the port of Riga, it is not possible to pump it through the Incukalns storage. That is why I think we should, of course, make decisions (Dep. A. Muižniece: “On the bill!” ) concerning the current situation, but we need to take very careful account of the risks of corruption with regard to the New Conservative Party (Dep. A. Muižnieces and dep. ( See K. Feldman's Intersense.) , with regard to Minister Fare Linkaita, because it is likely that the Minister and these Members who are sitting here are also sitting here... Right here, in the hall, in front of me, they've used that money in their pre-election campaign. And now now! - by making a decision without solving a certain problem of Ventspils, but by extending it to Riga, they actually reclaim their sponsor money. It seems to me that this situation is very unacceptable, and here I could also remind you once again - this sponsor - Peter Aloiz Ragauš - he has donated EUR 10 000 to the New Conservative Party on 22 June last year. I think this is a very well-founded shadow of corruption over the New Conservative Party. Then I will remind you what the new conservative party proposed in the Government's declaration on infrastructure: "We will take over the major ports under full state control, applying the principles of the OECD State Capital Company" in their administration. This part is very good, but here's the point. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: “Well? We are fulfilling our promises!” ) The following point is added: ‘Let’s review the lease agreements in ports so that the infrastructure can be sold or leased to investors.’ Well, here's the American investor who wants... well, I think that buy, not rent, because rental is not stable. And here I would like to say one more thing. Well, let's see what this same show says about Mr. Ragaush. The news tells you that Ragaush... So it develops this Skulte LNG terminal and has worked for British Petroleum and other large companies before becoming the honorary consuls of Latvia. Recalling the memories of several politicians and diplomats, the program reported that Ragauish helped to organize. — The Head of the sitting knocked down with a hammer. a meeting of politicians with the oil and gas business of Texas. Well, then, I don't know, maybe the New Conservative Party has also arrived in Texas. Well, I'd like to call... Yes, in this case, solve the problems of Ventspils and to all, society as a whole, follow very closely these potentially corrupt schemes, which currently form the New Conservative Party.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U80	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U81	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! I am listening to this debate and I am reading the draft legislation that has been tabled yet and again. And I understand that I don't think there's even an easy idea... in essence... what has happened and where we are now and what is correct. Aivars Lembergs or someone else on the list would be one thing. The list includes the Freeport of Ventspils as a unit with all four representatives of the state, with all four ministries. In fact, the Latvian government is on the list, the Latvian state is on the list. And whatever you do now, leaving only these four representatives who are also on the list, it does not change the situation. Latvia has to get out of this list. And all those who took part in its inclusion, when travelling to our great partner, are now responsible: go back there and straighten the situation! No amendments will change the fact that Ventspils Freeport Authority is included in the list. If I wanted to change something here... Considering that this term has already been over a year and that the government soon has been over a year... and hasn't adjusted nothing so that we're not there... has allowed this situation, then the most sensible thing that could be done is to give up and announce the extraordinary elections to the Saeima, thereby restoring confidence in this House and the government on the list (of course changing the government and then having serious diplomatic negotiations with our great ally). But I want to say one more thing. Whatever the situation, Aivars Lembergs, who sits in this hall and elsewhere, would not see – either justified or not – Aivars Lembergs, and regardless of his crime, he is a citizen of the Republic of Latvia, who has to be tried in the court of the Republic of Latvia. By this I am not saying that in Latvia we are all right with the judicial system. Ten and more years of judicial proceedings - that is, of course, an absolute anomaly, an absolutely unlawful situation that all the legislators have created before us. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike’s intermediate call.) We need to change that. But, I'm sorry, this is the internal matter of our country. And those who go abroad to deal with their internal affairs transfer their country. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strikķe: "You'd probably go to Russia, wouldn't you?" Thank you very much. That's accurate. That's it! The debate will certainly continue. I call for a general understanding of the situation. Former Prime Minister now... the economic situation. Totally, one hundred percent, I join, but it's just a small edge. We have said ourselves internationally and we have heard that Latvia is not legal, it is not democratic... in fact, a country that we cannot manage. I'm sorry! Every politician has the right to write letters and to leave to admit his own impotence if he wishes to do so. But to recognise Latvia's impotence - that is, I repeat, a crime against my country. That is exactly what you have done. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U82	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U83	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! At this point, it may be necessary to remember several folk sayings: “ Before you do something, think about the end” or – “Whoever else is rocking, falls into it.” Why am I saying that? If I wanted to treat this situation as cynical as a person reporting on this bill, I could simply say: “You’re using this trouble... The Lemberg Factor? Make it happen to them!” But I am a sventspils, and I am also a member of the board of the “Latvia and Ventspils” party, so I still feel responsible to my fellow people and try to get to know this bill as a Member, even though there was very little time, just over an hour since it appeared on our tables this morning. And what do I see when I look at this bill? I see, by nature, an attempt to grab a certain proportion of people (in this case, I am talking about the biggest... most of the Ventspils citizens) have tried to create over the last 20 years, when Ventspils really became a modern European Freeport from the port, developing industrial areas, developing production, creating new jobs, creating innovation support mechanisms, creating technology parks and... I could go on with this list. I myself have been very close... since 2020. ... Since 2000... involved in these processes, so I really feel the pain of all this also in a pure personal way. And what do I see in this bill? I see that there are changes there. I'll quote it right away. Thus, in Article 7, third paragraph, point 1: ‘Disable the words ‘and the local authorities concerned for the development programme’ in point 1 of the third paragraph.’ What is this about? In the full text, it reads as follows: “... The Port Authority, as an entity governed by private law, performs the following functions: 1) develops drafts of the port development programme in accordance with the approved concept of development of Latvian ports and the development programme and territorial planning of the respective municipality [...].” And now you propose that the words “and the local government development programme” be taken out while the words “territory planning” be left. Consulting even today with those people who represent other Latvian municipalities (and there are many of them among the members of the position)... Can you imagine spatial planning without development strategy, municipal development strategy? In my view, this is incompatible. So why are these words taken out? Obviously only in order to formally reduce the fact that there is some representative representation of the municipality... in some way the port is connected... Thus, the port is connected to the municipality. It must be explained here... And here I can talk... If the Prime Minister talked more about Riga and Liepaja, then I can talk specifically about the Freeport of Ventspils that, of course, the port with its area, with its piers, with engineering structures is part of the city, but the free port - it is much more part of the city, which also includes industrial areas and very much practical factory facilities, rental premises, various other types of infrastructure that are meant for business development, and where in recent years a whole range of modern companies have been created. And I can call some of them here. This is HansaMatrix, which works in the production of electronic systems and their components. It is an Accenture - one of the world's largest IT companies, with a... the main branch is located here... is located in the Freeport of Ventspils. It is the Immer Digital - North Europe's largest flexiblo packaging manufacturer. It is a Wasserkabel Baltic - new generation of heating and cooling systems manufacturer. This is the EuroLCDs - liquid crystal display factory. After all, it is the so-called clean space (the only kind of... one of the few of this kind of... In Latvia), where can produce products that require special environment. And that's just... Only those companies located in Ventspils High Technology Park. Ventspils has several such areas with these companies. And by quoting from the prepared draft law, Article 4 of the draft law provides that “in the territory of the port of Riga and Ventspils the right of pre-emption to land and other real estate as a derived legal person of public law is the port authority of Riga and the port authority of Ventspils”. Namely, those institutions where there will be no representatives of the municipality. In essence, this means that through this mechanism, it gives the right to privatise what has been created in these recent years, so to take... including the transfer of free areas within a free port area to a management body where the municipality will not have any influence. In my view, such a governance model has not been considered. I know that Ventspils... Ventspils Freeport management model has been acquired from Rotterdam in its time. And in the port of Rotterdam, this model is still working and working well. And then the question is why a good working model needs to be changed using only (Interface: “It’s not a port, but a company!” )... using only the fact that there is this excuse – “Lemberg Factor”? Mr. Butane! In your speech, which you have read, you have shown that you do not understand anything from the way the Freeport operates (Fr. , to the extent that it is related to real people working there, to the extent that it relates not only to manufacturers, but also to all the technological and innovation environments around them. And you now want to break this well-designed system with a couple of entries in the law. Therefore, personally, I will not participate in this farce, and I will not vote in favour of this draft law. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “You can’t do it!” ) I believe that it is urgent for those who really created this problem, starting with the Prime Minister, continuing with the Minister and so on, to do so in order for people whose work and livelihoods are linked to it... They must do everything possible to help the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U84	The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U85	Colleagues! When it comes to national paruns, I have to say, the mother herself, the edge. What they told us when they were going around, we're getting back now. And that's a very similar situation... the way in which we happened... ABLV Bank is self-lying. That perhaps a government official, when travelling around, especially to the United States, long and dictated why they are the bad ones, why they... that they're washing money. Although several years have passed, there is no application from the US for money laundering that would have come to us, there is no criminal record in this regard, but we have destroyed the bank. The taxes they pay are not necessary. But this may have happened only because the people concerned did not want anyone... a public official to pay illegal... illicit money. We are now ahead of the scene. And apparently the next Saeima will set up an investigation commission to find out the causes and consequences. Causes... Who went around, who said that Aivars Lembergs was different or different, and why should he be on the list? It is absolutely clear to me how it works, how it can be achieved. I completely agree with Mr. Schmidt that those who went around and told him didn't think about the consequences that they would have: that, in fact, on the blacklist... It's quite right... Latvian government or at least four ministries are included... four ministries that have nominated their representatives. If you are talking about the high risks of corruption, then show some statistics - what is proposed, what a submission you have written for what KNAB is investigating. If we are talking about legal proceedings - the Ministry of Justice should consider urgently how it happens that we have been having decades... a trial is held. Why am I talking about... in the form of a future investigation commission? Because its scheme is very clear and simple. A way will be searched... How to take full control of the country... At the moment, this is in part happening... management and also all property in the area of the ports concerned, in order to find a strategic investor... on the part of strategic partners... and then sell it for laughter money, as was the case with Citadele. You know, an interesting business... It has been accepted in Latvia... The rescue of “Parex banka” has invested billion euros from the Latvian budget. We sell the bank to strategic, safe investors, even though one of them put four years in prison in Cairo for 74 million corruption. Here's the whole business! A taxpayer's money where did it go? Who knows? We make hops with OIC, 2.4 billion currently paid. When trying to find out: “Listen to what is justified? What are the calculations for the implementation of their system?’ - no justification or calculation. Everyone has fought with OIC, but no one can tell what has been done. Here it seems that we will be fighting very hard against the threat of corruption that no one has identified. As a result, what do we get? In the end, we will sell our laughter money to a foreign investor, and that, my colleagues, will end up. And I have all these amendments - both in the Law on Ports and in the Law on Local Government - about the elections, the dismissal of the Riga City Council, the emergency... I see them all as parts of the same chain. It is not that this information about a possible takeover of the State... on the fact that the state... The government will try to take over the port of Riga and Ventspils... that it didn't cross at least for the last couple of years in the culinary... And that they will be sold accordingly to strategic investors from other countries - there is no doubt either. The question: "Why are we all elected here?" I understand that our strategic partners have their own interests, but perhaps it is time to think about the interests of our people as well, why we are all elected here. The new Saeima was elected back a year and many of us were on fire here - as we will all fight corruption and (Dep. E.Zālīte-Gross: “We do it!” ) how... So what did it all end? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “You were also burning your eyes to fight corruption?” ) So... Right now, I can just say... If I could talk back a year ago from this pub... and I am talking about the fact that we are a country with semi-Maphysic features, then the public administration - with maphysic features. And you rather than really fight, rather than seemingly, you serve the same old structures. This is the sad story. You know - the people of Latvia will certainly survive this one. But I certainly believe that this Parliament must be released. And the faster, the better. Because it's... The losses that we will incur as a result of such governance are terrible. We're talking here about... I remember well: Mr. Judin came almost every second sitting in the previous Parliament, speaking from the parliamentary tribunal... And what did you say about Mr. Lemberg? ‘ Mr Lemberg, accused of serious crimes.’ All right! There are now two serious crimes charged to your coalition partners. It doesn't make you sit at one table. (Applause) Where is that consistency? Colleagues, before you press the buttons, think about what you're doing! Is it really our main interest to serve the rich in other countries, or do we still have to defend the interests of our country? What concerns one person or another... Make applications! Let's do things! Let's go to criminal law! Change the criminal proceedings! This includes Mr Bondara, who is not listening... By the way, Mr Bondara, you also wanted to speak, perhaps you will also tell us about your adventures in “Latvijas Krajbanka”: how did Mr Antonov get to the legal documents of Latvian citizens, where he ripped them, which helped him to make them. You too can share experiences. And unfortunately, I have the belief that this coalition and the government are the biggest enemies of our country, which is threatening the national security of our country. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U86	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U87	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Ladys and gentlemen! One of the last major division of Latvia's economic assets was started. The auction started. The reason for the actions of the Latvian Government was the decision of the US authority. But what was the real cause of the actions of our strategic partners? Perhaps the port of Ventspils has been affected by the influence of the person against whom sanctions were introduced? On the contrary! According to statistics, the port of Ventspils showed the best result compared to other ports of the country. We take data from Central Statistical Administration. From Latvian ports in the first half of 2019... sent and ports received 32.4 million tonnes of cargo, which is 0.2 percent less than in the first half of 2018. Cargo turnover in the port of Riga was 16.2 million tons - 6.3 percent less. Ventspils port - 11.5 million tons or 15.4 percent more. However, the port of Ventspils works better than a year ago. The government is now preparing for nationalisation for Karini's good. As a representative of a social-democratic party, I should be pleased with such an economic dialect, but I know, however, that soon this nationalisation will become a "prihvatisation". Just like the country took over... the bank taken over during the crisis... in a short time... became a private company with American capital, as well as ports... There will be another “Citadel”, even two citadels. So far strategic investors only look at the ports of Ventspils and Riga. The coalition has its own lawyers, liquidators and other big maritime “specialists” on the board of the new state-owned company. Do you think anyone will believe you? You have also wanted to feed the people you need by replacing the managing body of the port from the municipalities to the management body from the ministries. But the latter is not less political than the former structure, because all ministries in Latvia serve primarily the needs of political parties and most of their leaders are not at all professionally related to their industries. I would like to point out one historical nuance. In the early 1990s, the head of the city of Ventspils port, where the multinational working class and the Soviet army were located, could prevent violent events in Ventspils and there was no contrast to independence. This person also voted in this house for the independence of Latvia. Remember, too, that in Ventspils people have always lived calmly and enough... material security! And the person against whom sanctions have been imposed goes from the political and economic arena to the pension. By himself, this person will leave a rather well-kept city and most of the citizens of Ventspils - a good memory of themselves. But what will you leave?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U88	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U89	Don't doubt! Corruption in Latvia is not a crime without victims. Corruption has consequences. Both domestic and foreign investors have told us that the losses caused by corruption deter them from investing more in Latvia; as a result, the country loses well-paid jobs, which could contribute to economic growth, prevent the migration of excellent and educated young people abroad and attract those who have already left and want to return with their families. Some business leaders even claim that if the situation does not improve in the near future, they will stop investing in Latvia. Recently we learned that a large-scale investment project in one of Latvia's strategic sectors did not happen at the last moment, because foreign investors were concerned about corruption. We young Conservatives came to politics for all reasons... all possible tools to combat corruption, because it is precisely because of corruption that we are losing jobs in the country, that there are no taxes levied, and that people are forced to emigrate. In international research, it is estimated that hundreds of millions of euros, perhaps even more, passed by the State Treasury due to corruption. We have been actively engaged with the entire government. We work closely with our strategic partners in the United States as well as with... other Western countries. Our goal is to exempt Latvia from corruption cancer, so that Latvia is the best country to live, work and raise children. I myself have several children and want them to live out of corruption in a free country. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Gobzem said, "Don't judge, don't judge." ) As regards Lembergs, John Bordāns or other leaders of our leaders were in front of Donald Trump, whom and how to put on the sanctions list... This would, of course, be very encouraging if we had such an impact. But it sounds more than comical. , and he tries to present it as a political fight in any fight against corruption - I mean Lemberg - even though Lemberg had to debate with prosecutors rather than the media... and camera and light... in the light of the light of the lighthouses. We believe that the fight against corruption, including the arrangement of the port, will bring great benefits to Latvia. We will get extra funds for doctors' salaries, teachers' salaries. Of course, we regret that the situation has come so far that the ordinary port workers can also suffer because of Lemberg. To put it this way, we, more specifically the government, have to strike the manure that Aivars Lembergs has worked for 30 years, but we are ready to do it because we see that it will benefit Latvia as a whole. Decisions about Riga and Ventspils cannot be taken apart. If we see a situation like that in Ventspils, where wage costs for a thousand employees are at risk, then it is (Dep. A. Gobzem’s intermediate call.) It is necessary to act proactively so that this situation does not recur in Riga, where there are even more employees. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Gobzem: “You created the situation yourself!” ) There are reasonable grounds to believe that the port of Riga may also be on the sanctions list (Dep. R. Lochmele-Lunova: ‘How?’ ) because we have information that Lembergs has some interest in the port of Riga. Tālis Linkaits has already said in advance: the state must demonstrate with a great deal that a scenario similar to that of Ventspils will not be possible in the port of Riga. There is great competition in the transit of goods, and our port competitors are waiting for us to get up. Therefore, taking over the port of Riga is very important. The President of Latvia considers the government's decision to be correct and supports the government. The country will be the best host of ports, which is the national strategic infrastructure. It must be under public control to ensure stability and to avoid security risks. ( Internouncing call.) What will be the impact of sanctions on the Latvian economy? Ventspils city and its citizens working in Ventspils Freeport and related companies can suffer the most at the moment, so decisive and rapid action is very important. The government must demonstrate that it not only isolating the person included in the sanctions list from the Freeport of Ventspils, but it is also fighting corruption risks in general and introduces principles of good governance that are necessary not only in Ventspils but also in the Freeport of Riga, which will provide the basis for potential decision-making by the sanction adopters. The benefits of decisive action in this situation will be enormous. This will never benefit everyone! And, as U.S. Minister for Finance Steven Mnučin stated: “Corruption deprives its people of their resources, basic services and economic opportunities as long as it makes some individual people rich and contributes to environmental destruction, political instability and conflict.” U.S. Treasury Foreign Asset Control Office in its statement of 9 December on the victim of serious crimes, suspended from his duties the Mayor of Ventspils Aivars Lembergs... put it on the global Magnitsk Sanctions List... has indicated: “Corruption has slowed the Latvian economy for years, removing money from public services for Latvian citizens and allowing criminals to harm the state of Latvia and NATO alliance.” The Communication states: “This statement highlights the United States’ commitment to Latvia and our commitment to call corrupt oligarchs responsible for their actions against a major ally in Europe, that is, against the state of Latvia.” Lemberg is listed as a former or present official responsible for, participating in... directly or indirectly involved... involved in corruption... including the waste of public funds, the misappropriation of private funds for personal benefit, corruption related to government procurement or natural resources, or bribery. According to the statement, Lemberg controls organisations through political parties (Interviews). and corrupt politicians, systematically exploit these organisations and individuals for economic benefits. Lembergs has used his influence on the leadership of political parties to influence individuals in the government and to appoint certain officials in certain positions, while hindering the entry of unwanted officials into management positions. Lembergs has also influenced and corrupted the officials of the law enforcement authorities in order to protect his interests and prevent the activities of politicians that could not be otherwise controlled. This Communication lists four organisations owned or controlled by Lemberg. For example, Ventspils Freeport Authority, Ventspils Development Agency, Latvian Business Development Association and Latvian Transit Business Association. And I can say that both Lembergs himself, his family members, the legal entities mentioned above and those legal entities that are not precisely listed on this list have become infectious, and everyone needs to be aware that any connection with these persons, as well as with other Latvian oligarchs, can potentially be very expensive. In this context, please support the draft law and further decisive steps to be taken by the Latvian government, which will be necessary to prevent the crisis and the impact of oligarchs on Latvia's state and economy. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U90	Mrs Stepanenko, would it be enough for you to have a five-minute debate? Then we go on a break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name for Maria Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, to report on the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U91	Not registered: Raimonds Bergmanis, Boriss Cilevičs, Jānis Dombrava, Aivars Geidāns, Artuss Kaimiņš, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Rihards Kols, Armands Krauze... Krauze is, Ainars Latkovskis, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Ivan Ribakovs, Lubova Švecova, Viktors Valainis, Inese Voika... Yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U92	Thank you. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U93	Honourable Members! We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Ports. We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U94	Dear colleagues, Probably at least one of you has felt that you are now starting... We have started our way to new times. And those new times will be marked by a lot of interesting things. When the children read in their books about these events, about everything that followed while sitting in schools and not knowing, for example, what the Internet is... whether the Internet will also be banned... and reading in the books the stories of young Conservatives walking in the covetous and fighting corruption, because no one else will have anything to read... Then one of the children may ask the teacher: “Sorry, please. My dad always repeats a word at home - I've heard it a few times - “justice”. Who is that?” And the teacher will tell him that it is such a very, very old name, archaism, which, in principle, has long since existed in that country. And instead, of course, reiderism prevails; instead, opportunism prevails. V. Agešins: “Rengeat!” ) and many other very interesting things that perhaps we will start to experience with you, but the next generation will probably enjoy the full... Full spectrum. Yes, today we can conclude that, firstly, the money that is in banks for everyone does not belong to a person. So at any time, on the basis of any suspicion, of course, this money can be detained and sanctions can be imposed on the bank, exploring whether you have bought the right pamphlets today. Secondly, the conclusion is that, in principle, we are currently living between the stukachi. And if we look at the new time, let's say... This new time with pussacks is marked by the fact that there are people in fact... Miracle - these are citizens of Latvia, who probably regard themselves as patriots, but... They are happy to have the opportunity to humiliate their country. And that is really significant! They are happy that they can walk around the world complaining about their home country's judicial system, laws and existing system, which they themselves have in principle also... Well, here, from the Saeima troop, strengthened. Such people are among us, yes, and they are so happy, and they are grateful to our allies for what is happening at the moment. So, 30 days... Dear colleagues, None of you, colleagues in the coalition, have mentioned the fact that, in principle, you, as governments... government parties have the task of working hard over these 30 days to save our economy, which you yourself have ruined by walking around the world. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “You’re already not allowed to work!” ) Why do you want it so quickly? Why do you want to pull this bill out in two readings one day? Where is your desire to specify what is really expected of us? There is no such desire. And here today, Mrs. Reizniece-Ozola mentioned... she compared this situation to a burning one... with the fire and the fact that you're adding petrol to that house. But I would compare this more with the fact that, so, the burning house, you want from the adjacent house... It's just... at all this situation, by chaos, you pull out of the adjacent house expensive items - furniture, TV. That is what you are doing at the moment. Well, as they say, with one pain! Because no legal argument, no justification for the fact that this draft law currently includes the Freeport of Riga, you do not have and will not have any legal argument. And I come back to the new times again. Mr Bhutan described this situation very well today. So for prevention - for prevention! - we will also clean up the Freeport of Riga. I could name a lot of situations where, as a man, as a driver and as a Member, a politician could be sanctioned to prevent Mr Bhutan, because he might also be able to steal, he might also be able to drive someone or, if God does not give him, to commit some violence. Of course, too... Well, he has the potential if. ( Internouncing call.) In this case, of course, you are also talking about the Freeport of Riga as a... as such a potential for corruption. Of course, you don't need any evidence or anything... the court you do not need at all, because you already have a “great brother” to whom you... you can leave and complain anyway. But I would like to understand that what do you really do not like at the Freeport of Riga? Do you have people like Baiba Bane... Baiba Bane from the Ministry of Finance or Mrs Innusa from the Ministry of Transport... Have they complained that one of the municipal leaders and representatives of the municipality at the Freeport of Riga is hindering their work and making any profit for the Freeport of Riga? Pavels Rebenoks from the Ministry of Economics is also a government appointed representative at the Freeport of Riga. You probably... Yeah, you... You will certainly leave him, because that is the idea of leaving government representatives. Very good! Viesturs Zeps from Riga City Council - well, the light image! Why do you want to touch him right now? What has really happened? That is why I want to understand which of these people, of these bright images - Pavel Rebenok, Viesturs Zeps, Mrs Innusas and Mrs Bannes - who of these bright images have complained to you that the bad ones from the Riga City Council are hindering the movement of goods or obstructing some, let us say, the cleanness of financial flows. Prevention - so you say yes? But who will actually answer? And there's silence. What will answer for the fact that after you have cleaned the Freeport of Riga from the people you displeased, we will face a major economic crisis, that the cargo will no longer enter the Freeport of Riga, and the money will simply stop flowing? Mrs Strique will be responsible for this. Mrs Strike will answer for what she has done. But I guess so. Mr Strike: "Of course!" )... We will probably never expect it. But this is Mrs Strique's decision, you understand. Finally, I would like to say, colleagues, that I do not, of course, have any hope that you will, in some way, stop this political reed, but I am really ashamed of you what you are doing at the moment. It's the purest plunder, it's pure... It is the purest seizure of power. And, believe me, there are so many people in this dear country... today, these days, who no longer feel like in their home country. They feel like they would go over Latvia with some foreign boots and foreign hands and gorge around everything. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “It has been happening in Riga for 10 years! For 10 years the Riga City Council has been raging along the Riga City Council!” ; dep. A. Gobzems: “Rijekstin, first entered the university!” The intermediate: “He’s already studying!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U95	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstina and dep. A. Gobzem’s intermediate names.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U96	I'll wait... ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U97	Let me start talking to the speaker at the platform!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U98	Dear colleagues, I was very impressed by Mr. Feldman's speech. Many things were so reminded. I for the famous “International” that we will destroy the entire old world to the foundations, and for some other things. Especially I liked the mention of Bordan... activities of Member Bordans, Member of New Conservative Party Bordans... It's like there's... In negotiations with Trump... It's as if it's existing. Of course, when Tramp wakes up on December 9, he wrote on the Twitter: “Take Lembergs to the song and add him to the list.” That's it, dot! Another situation develops, and a reaction emerges. Is this response adequate or inadequate? Or by adopting the appropriate proposal that came... comes from the Cabinet of Ministers, this situation will be resolved or not? That is the first question. By the way, with words... I've already talked about it today... be very careful. Port operations have ended competition today. This will be even greater, especially in the Baltic Sea ports in the future. If the government document shows such a record that corruption risks are extremely high in Riga and Ventspils, it means that there can be no claim... the destination of the next silk path or something else serious. There's no detail here and there's no small details. One example: The pilot book published in Finland mentions that the ice situation in the Gulf of Riga is present in winter. What does that mean? As a small observation, this costs freight and ship insurance. A little bit. Here the government and Parliament (if accepted) recognise that, for example, ladies and gentlemen, my fellow Members, my clients, do not risk these two free ports here, because there is an end to the risk of corruption that we are not coping with for years. But when it comes to the offer itself, the situation is extremely serious - for the Freeport of Ventspils first. For the Freeport of Ventspils and for those people, entrepreneurs, employees, companies as those who exist there. So, what should I do in this case? Mr. Smith has an absolute truth when he said that cleaning the free-port authority from the people of municipalities - this is not a solution, because it will not escape inclusion here... Freeport designation on this list. The question is, what could then be done to really guarantee this thing? That is the fundamental question. Is there a response to this? I don't think it is. Because in this case, there's really an emergency. As a result, it is also necessary to act as an emergency, not as a common method, to clean Riga, Jurmala... I don't know what else... Boards and so on. An emergency situation is emerging, and it should be mentioned in the Ports Act that such situations can arise and how to act if such a situation develops. That's the point one. This should be the subject of amendments to the Ports Act. Second. What should be done if an emergency of this kind develops? More specifically, when it comes to the Freeport of Ventspils, it is most likely that the management model should be changed here as such. Although, for a while, all the circumstances will be clarified and another model will be established, which is being discussed by a government representative, Mr. Linkait. These should be those amendments that should be considered today. So today what is offered does not solve this problem for the end of the hair. And - no guarantee that all the serious, indeed severe consequences of the inclusion of the company and the capital company on the sanctions list will be eliminated. I would ask you to think 10 times before making a quick decision with an unguaranteed outcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U99	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U100	Hello, colleagues! I would have fewer questions today about the draft law that has been tabled if the annotation that is added to it had really a reason and an explanation why this is happening. If there was a plan and also a promise that the cargo turnover of these two ports would increase under the state control of Ventspils and Riga ports (in particular, Riga), the areas under the responsibility of the Freeport will be arranged. Perhaps you do not know that the fifth part of Riga is a freeport area, without whose consent nothing in this area can be arranged, constructed or developed. There is no such justification. You don't have any figures, any studies or any minimal idea of how the activities of Ventspils and Riga Freeports will change after these ports are taken over under state control. I would understand if there were a bill just about the port of Ventspils, because it really concerns the actual activities of certain people, employees, entrepreneurs. Then we could explain both the rapid appearance of the bill in the Saeima and the urgency we will adopt today (it is already known that today there will be a second reading and it will be a one-day question at once). There's nothing. However, there is an indication that several Members have already spoken about today - an indication of the potential high risks of corruption, in both ports. I will not talk about Ventspils port, I will talk about the Freeport of Riga, where the country's side is represented by two people from the parties represented in the Saeima: Viesturs Zeps, who represents Development/About! and is a member of the Riga City Council and has been delegated to the Freeport of Riga Board from the VARAM; Pavels Rebenoks, who has been delegated from the “KPV LV” party as representative of the Ministry of Economics. These two names cover the high risk of corruption? How's that? It will mean people who don't know the information you don't want to disclose or publish. What kind of openness are we talking about? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “You gave money to Rigas already?” ) As regards the level of preparation of the bill, trust in a nation that you do not want to reveal anything, except what you are writing in an annotation, could equally be said that the risks of corruption involve the possible entry of representatives of the JCPOA into a new board or a new company that we do not know about. Because if US journalists were to get to know what the Latvian press is writing, they would learn that KNP are also sponsors who are very interested in the development of port business. ( Internouncing call.) This is not about the Freeport of Riga, but about the port of Skulte, but about the interest of your sponsor, who lives in America, in creating a liquefied gas base against Skulte in the open Baltic Sea. I wonder how nature defenders of Latvia are not getting anxious about it yet. It looks so weird! In fact, in the last days, I have been very determined... It is very clear that there is a coup in our country.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U101	Name to Member Uldis Budric.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U102	President of the Saeima! Dear Bureau! Colleagues! I want to look back on what has now been achieved. First, and... port activities are being paralyzed. Secondly, there is the shock situation for the ventspils. Thirdly, there is the possibility that employees will not have wages in the city port. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “But you wanted to!” ; dep. Mr Stepanenko: “Malachi!” ) Fourth, it's all... the overall economy of the country is affected. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: “Do you even see what you have done?” ) In the US, the black list includes the long-term candidate of the ZZS Prime Minister, the accused of serious crimes, the suspended video blogger who is retired from the duties of Ventspils Mayor (Laughter). Aivars Lembergs. But if seriously, it is clear that proactive steps need to be taken to save Latvia's transit sector, Ventspils citizens and the country's economy as a whole. Riga and Ventspils ports are the two largest ports in Latvia. In addition, Riga also has some influence on persons who have actively participated in the “Rīdzene” negotiations. It is also not excluded that decisions taken in the “Ride” negotiations are also being implemented at present, for example, on the buying-in of the media by free ports, possibly NRAs. But in order to prevent sanctions or restrictions from being imposed on the port of Riga, a proactive and also preventive step is to address the management issues of both ports as a whole. This is only the first stage, colleagues, so that we can clean Latvia's transit industry from the disease, which has long been supported by the ZZS politicians in Ventspils and the “Summer” politicians in Riga. I thank the Minister for his active response. And I call for support. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U103	The name to Member Nikolai Cabanov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U104	Dear colleagues, I would also like to touch on the issue of Latvia's image in all this case... in rotation. Yesterday I was able to attend a discussion organised in Riga by an institution such as StratCom. It is the centre of excellence of NATO Strategic Communication, which takes care of... against fecks and against false news... propaganda and so on. Today, however, we set up an excuse to speak bad and humiliating about Latvia. But... but we built a large terminal in Riga. No one has mentioned the Russian island in the discussion today, but EUR 189 million have been invested there over five years. It is a major construction implemented by the Freeport of Riga. But who will now have this terminal? In fact, Riga will be taken from the outside - 66 hectares, 15.5 meters deep berth, coal landing, loading terminals and modern devices. It's on the Russian island. A little bit about Ventspils. In 2001 Ventspils cargo turnover reached its peak and was close to 40 million tons, but in 2018 it dropped to 20 million tons. Why? Because in the Baltic Sea, Russia set up a major port in Primorsk. Last year's cargo turnover in Primorsk reached over 50 million tons between January and October. It is together Riga and Ventspils. What would I say with that? I mean, we don't live in an airless space. The transit line is very heavy. The ports are fighting for volumes, but you cannot achieve an improvement in the transit sector with your own methods, but you have only reduced the rating and reputation of the ports of Latvia. Now everything happens in the industry on the basis of personal contact, let us say so. And if the stevedors and businessmen working with the boards of that port don't meet these people anymore... simply go to Klaipeda or Primorsk, or to Tallinn and so on. But, as I know, in the future Russia will drive all of its transit through its ports and it is unlikely that Latvia will be able to obtain transit through Belarus or Kazakhstan. And then any of your attorneys will only be the director of the beach.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U105	The name of Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U106	President of the Saeima! Minister! Colleagues! Today, when we listen to the debate, we must ask ourselves: how did we get to the following item on the agenda, which was put on the agenda of the Saeima with great urgency? We all know this Monday's announcement from the US Treasury's Foreign Asset Control Office, and I will read three small points. ‘ Aivars Lembergs controls institutions through political parties and corrupt politicians.” That's one. ‘ Lemberg has exercised influence over the leadership of political parties to determine government staff and to appoint certain government officials to certain positions, as well as to prevent other officials from taking leading positions.’ That's the second. And the third. ‘ Aivars Lembergs has been influenced and corrupted by law enforcement officials for his benefit.’ Why? ‘ In order to defend their interests and subjugate those politicians who could not otherwise be affected.’ The third point. And in these three points... Unfortunately, we must conclude that this particular natural person in our country affects the three pillars of power on which any democratic state is based: the legislator, the executive power and the judiciary. ( Internouncing call.) If you think about this amount, in which one individual can compromise a whole country... For me, that's what I'm talking about. And today we are from the truth at a very crucial moment, yes, perhaps on the eve of a certain coup (Intersages.) , but it is in our public interest that we manage our country - whether we do it in our public interest or whether we do it in our public interest, which has been fought, colleagues, a hundred years ago. And here, bearing these quotes in mind, we can all ask ourselves: who exactly has destroyed the entire port system... How did the economy and Riga speak of this tribunal today? That's what I fixed, maybe there was something else... I missed it. But who has to take responsibility? For this parliamentary term, who has worked for a year? We are, of course, very much reacting and are ready to act to remedy this situation. There's nothing else left. Much was said of this troupe about the composition of words, which is included in the annexation of this draft law, namely "the risks of corruption". Colleagues! There are many risks of corruption, such as officials... by definition... if they work with large financial volumes, make responsible decisions in the country, then there are risks of corruption in these positions. We have institutions, public authorities, where there are risks of corruption by definition. Is that something disrespectful or compromising? No, no! It is important to be aware of the places where risks exist so that they can be controlled and effectively addressed. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Dolgopolovs: “The greatest risk is for Members who adopt the budget!” ) And our experience shows (which is also indicated by this statement by the US authority) that unfortunately... But if there is a fact, Riga, Ventspils... These corruption risks exist in the Free Ports of Riga and Ventspils, and not only do they exist, they are afraid, they have also realised. Those who worry about the image of Latvia... The fact is that the state is able to identify and control risks, not to undermine them, but to improve this image. And that creates a certain level of confidence for investors that they can enter the country. But if the State does not take these risks into account and does not talk about it at all, I fear that then there is really nothing left to investors to choose other areas where to develop their economic activities. If someone is very concerned about why the Freeport of Riga is included in this bill, then thank you to the magazine “Ir” portal, which this week is also (interfaces.) reminded them of their articles on what was specifically mentioned in the so - called “Rīņe’s Talks”. And I'm afraid we're seeing quite a direct link... for the fact that... There is a risk that sanctions could also be imposed against this port. And that is not bad by definition. We need to be able to look at the truth and, if there are risks, to control and prevent them responsibly. And that's what we're... I also, for my part, thank the Minister for the action that shows that we will protect our strategic assets in Latvia and will not allow anyone else to use them. Yes, maybe previous government errors, errors, negligence... We will make sure that this is corrected and that our strategic work is active in our country and society. Colleagues! I call for support for this draft law. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U107	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U108	I can't hear you, speak louder! Dear colleagues, I congratulate all of you on your inclusion on the US blacklist. I think maybe we should, well... Amendments adopted today... May this day be a special day of memory... And then we'll have another day in February... There will be a blacklist day, and there will be a greylist day. But in general... I don't know if you... then having read something, having met what it is about the list of such if. I'll tell you a little bit. This is a black list based on the so-called Magnitsk Global Act, which was originally adopted to combat (I quote) “human rights violations around the world”, and was then complemented by the fight against kleptocrates and corruption. And what kind of countries does it work for? Its geography is as follows: Gambie, Nicaragua, Congo, Dominican Republic, Haiti. On the day when news appeared that Latvia was actually included in this list, the news appeared about Latvia and Cambodia. Very good company, colleagues! Very good company! Although the name is Lembergs, Freeport of Ventspils and some other legal persons, but in essence, colleagues - in essence! - the black list includes the whole of our country. Because we are ranked together with Gabon, Nicaragua, Congo, Dominican Republic, Haiti and Cambodia. You're here... a lot of things have now been said - 'ZZS', 'ZZS', 'ZZS', 'Lember'. But you, the Unity, the National Union, have been the long-standing and closest partners of the Union of Greens/Farmers, Lembergs! Just before the elections, I remember that Brigmanis, the leader of the FAO Group, called the National Union their closest partner with whom... the best, special understanding. We're now... Especially the new Conservative is happy if, for the fact that... on this step. But think of you, this step... What does that mean? That means you can't do it yourself. They see that this is so long and that it will obviously never end. With this step, the United States said everything they think about all the previous Ministers of Justice (yes, the National Association!) , as well as for the existing Minister of Justice. This means that the United States believes that the existing Minister of Justice and the entire government with the U.S. citizen at the forefront of Karini are absolutely unable to deal with their suspect oligarchs and kleptocrates. And you are happy here and disappointed, but this is a specious in your face, coalition, right for you. Okay, you can even criticise forever, but what should be done to a real Prime Minister, colleagues? A true Prime Minister would be able to defend the interests of his country. A true Prime Minister would convince the United States to remove the Freeport of Ventspils from this list already the day after this announcement by the United States. I'm... colleagues, I am not particularly interested in whether there will be four or eight representatives of the government in the Freeport of Ventspils and in the Freeport of Riga, or how many new conservative parties... Sisters, Sisters, and Brothers (Dep. Feldmans: “Facts!” ) will work in those ports. I think that the country will also suffer. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Negvelz!” ) But the most important thing is what will happen with transit, colleagues, with a sector that still provides every tenth of the jobs in our economy. And your understanding of this sector can also be seen in the annotation of this draft law. Where it says: “The impact of the legal framework on the economy.” What has been written to you? ‘ The draft law shall be without prejudice to this field.’ Dear colleagues, I think that, after all these votes - I understand there will be only two - you, especially the Members of the New Conservative Party, and I think the whole coalition will be calling for acceptance at the Embassy of Lithuania... I think the Lithuanian Ambassador has already bought a champagne box and it probably also has a greeting card in it, which is likely to say: “Hellos and best wishes!” Signature: “Thank you - the port of Klaipeda.” So, dear colleagues, I have good news for you! From this day, everything that will happen in the transit sector is yours - and only yours! - responsibility. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U109	The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U110	Dear colleagues, One technical note, a replica, and one such salt more essential. In particular, a technical note. If we look at this bill... about why we're changing something, it's... There is a decision by the United States to list the Freeport of Riga. But what's interesting? As we base this decision, we join the Freeport of Ventspils... I'm sorry, we're adding to the Freeport of Riga... It can only mean two things - either we know that the Freeport of Riga will also be immediately followed by the list, or we simply add it to the voluntar itself. I will not talk about the economic consequences here, you will all see them in the coming weeks. And about the other consequences I already made in my first speech. The other thing I wanted to say. When I gave my first speech here, there was an intermediate call... What is permitted, as we know... I'd rather call it a clash - from Juta Strike. I didn’t listen to everything, but I heard one: “Russia!” Russia. Given the context in which this intermediate call was at the moment, it obviously means that there is... There are two options in the sense of Juta Strike: either we are going for external assistance to deal with our questions to the United States or to Russia. And here I... Linda Ozola also helped me, how to say, get back in time, remembering the declaration of the freedom struggle and the independence of Latvia... which was won and obtained 100 years ago... more precisely, 101 years ago... Looking at the history of that time and the foundation of Latvia, let's say, preconditions, political debate and the mood of society... and which will also testify later in the fact... at that time, that... If Lithuania and Estonia had already founded the state in February 1918, we were late, we only founded it in November. And why were we late? We were late... The main reason for the delay was infidelity. Distrust for your country, distrust for the fact that we can govern our country. Those who are interested in history can be researched very accurately. At that time, not only the ordinary people, as they say, but politicians also sat in the taverns, at home at the Azaids table, and in fact considered not the independent state of Latvia... so much... but for what will be better, for what will be better, for what will be under Germans or under Russians. We've got this... in fact almost twice in the history of Latvia (but for the first time absolutely) that the possibility of the country before us was faster than the nation had become a nation. In particular, a nation is separated from a nation by the fact that a nation becomes a nation when it is able to set common goals in its internal and external policies. It took time. When establishing the country, we see that then also in the 2nd theatre of Riga... not everyone believed it was a long time. This is illustrated by the fact that in the first Interim Government, for example, there was no position of the Minister of Defence. We didn't think we had to fight and fight. And the real faith in the state of Latvia... the real faith in the Latvian state was created by other people than those commonly known, namely the Latvians in Vidzeme. Nordic Latvians in Vidzeme, who together with the Estonians defeated the von der Golcu. And in fact, they didn't beat the von der Golcu, they defeated the disbelief of their own forces and the disbelief of the possibility of Latvia's independent state. ( Internouncing call.) This difference between a nation and a country in the middle of a nation is very difficult to cultivate if it has not happened naturally. At that time it was raised by northern Latvians, later by students who joined in jewellery and contrary to the army... The order took the River Daugava and forced the government of the time to change its views that Riga cannot be returned to the Germans and sit in Jugla. What we are now seeing and what this intermediate call very clearly shows is that we are breaking down this entire intermediate stage and getting back to this level of the Riga pubs, where the level is to be discussed, under what is better – under the Germans or under the Russians. Only Germany has one other country now. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U111	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U112	I mean, if Lemberg had donated to the UK... A stripper or a Yurash... then, today, the KP would remain silent, just as it is for Meroni. (Applause) They would remain silent, as they remained silent at a time when Jusha’s wife was placed without a call for tender in order to receive a high salary. — The Intersor. and maybe cover it with corruption. ( Insight: “What are you talking about? ” ) Lemberg's problem is that he has not contributed to the UKP. Apparently. But why did I call Meroni? Meroni, Mr. Linkaita, for you. Baiba Rule, the Minister of Transport, has worked with Meroni related companies. The revenue of Lucidus Communication, the Minister of Transport and Faraita, can be safely studied in this regard. And that's why it's a question: why does the UKP not worry about such an influential person as Meroni in Latvia? You have noticed, by the way, where the Strique is, there's chaos. KNAB, for example. A KNAB is an example of this. As the Uttu Strīķi were thrown out of the KNAB, KNAB started working well. (Laughter) Now (Applause) ... Now that... Now only Mrs. Strike is left to throw away from the Saeima, so that the Saeima will also start working well. Then chaos and injustice in this country, in our land, would end. Have you noticed another thing? ( Internouncing call.) Everything you catch in the UK - everything goes to the bottom, absolutely everything! Traffic, railways go to the bottom. The only thing that has been done - big compensation has been paid - half a million, or how much. ( Internouncing call.) But cargo volumes are decreasing, employees will immediately be released in countless numbers. The roads go to the bottom. Now the ports go to the bottom. Thank you, UKP, for the fantastic monitoring of the traffic sector! Education. Children's weekends, we're refusing. Teachers will strike right away, the state will not pay the study credits anymore. In education, too, we go to the bottom. The rule of law. A judge together with the Minister of Justice - a judge together with the Minister of Justice! - going to another country to hand over their country. You know what it's called? There is such a stage in the letter. KUP, listen to me! That stage is called... vasals. It's a feudal age. By the way, the responsibilities of the vassal included - at that time, as today - providing material support to the senior. For this, the senator gave his vassal land with his natives, the so - called feud. In this particular case, it is quite clear that the aim was not one citizen of the Republic of Latvia, but the aim was to take up ports. Very likely to give back to the senior. So the vassal went to the senororium with an appropriate request. And you, society, have to understand that you are perceived here as native people, as slaves and slaves, because your opinion about the state of Latvia doesn't make any sense. Your destiny is not decided here. Your destiny is decided elsewhere, in other lands. For those who have given up power here, they do not make decisions either. They drive to get instructions from other countries. And it does not happen in a democratic, legal state, it does not happen in a free country! Even in the states of the United States, there is more freedom than in the Republic of Latvia. Not the state, but the interests of your sponsors as vassals - that's your thinking. And you are happy today that you have put all the temples, all Latvia, in a critical situation, to hate... like Bolsheviks to hate one person who may well have to answer to the court, but... Because of this poor human hatred, you are abhorring all our country, all our people, and you are delighted about this, BIP. Let us imagine the situation: if Putin had adopted sanctions against Lembergs and Ventspils Freeport, what would the UKP do? ( Internouncing call.) What exactly would the BSP do in such a situation? And that's what I'm talking about... Previous... a colleague from the quarry. Under which state powers will we then be? Will we be under the Russians, or will we be under somewhere else? But if these people were not with vassal thinking, they would say: “No, it is a free country! It's our country! We will not be under any other country. We're going to judge our own criminals. And we'll be able to solve ourselves... decisions. And we will not drive with curved backs”... including you, Mr. Eglitis... “to another country pray for sanctions against our land.” (Laughter) Mrs. Strique! You're laughing here. And I'll explain to you that your laughter is out of place, because I'm going to vote in favour too, because I don't want the wife of Jušas in the port without contests. When you were silent, Mrs. Strique, when you were silent and covered up this event... just like you cover all of your sponsors -- known and unknown... I will vote in favour because I do not want to see the head of the Puce office of a classmate in the port... at the same time, also a friend of Jaunupa... Lila Spaliņa. That must be the risks of corruption, if? It must be the corruption - the wife of Jušas and Laila Spaliņa. That is why you are making those decisions today. I also do not want to, so I will vote in favour. By the way, if we are talking about the presumption of innocence, and there is a very serious question here, and I want the whole of Latvian society to listen, because it is... the question concerns each. This applies to anyone watching this broadcast that listens to this broadcast, including those who keep the KNP lines on the phones now... with the Strick in the forehead, to all of them. In our country, the presumption of innocence no longer exists. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “What is the presumption of innocence? Forget it!’ ) In our country it is enough that Sandis Riekstins with secondary education or Strike with a Bolshevistic Revenge Knight, or Bordan with an as if a traitor gene just comes out and says: “You’re a thief!” or “You are a corrupt party!” That is enough in Latvia. But in a legal state, even the greatest killer has a right of defence. The presumption of innocence shall not be withdrawn in the State of the law. And here I want to turn to Latvian society. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Impress the tear yet!” ) Mr. Riekstins, I understand that you could not join “Turi” so you should have been at the Academy of Sport... there, at least, the weights can be hatched. (Laughter) Thank you very much. Depp. S. Riekstin’s intermediate call sign.) I want to turn to the Latvian society. And you, Latvian society, know that I always speak a direct and harsh language. And this time I will address a direct and harsh language directly to Latvian society. Mrs Ozola from the UKP defined very precisely what she is doing. A coup is currently taking place. And that's true. And so, Latvian society, I'm going to ask you a couple of questions. You really like to live in one of the poorest European countries, which is getting even poorer in the context of Europe? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (A. Leanny's intermediate call sign.) For decades now, it has become poorer due to the fact that Unity has been in the post of Prime Minister and Minister for Finance for more than 10 years (Internition.) Because Dombrovskis left 50 thousand a month after the tragedy in Zolitūde to receive it (Interior: “When are you going?” ), because you are always just licked off like robots, pretending to be before other powers, not being owners here and not having been able to make decisions for our citizens. It is thanks to this, Mr. Leiens! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (A. Leanny's intermediate call sign.) Is it enough for you, society, to have these lingering speeches that everything will be better? Don't you see everything getting worse? People are leaving more and more. ( The box “Lies! ”) ) More and more people leave Latvia! ( Milestones.) And that is why, Latvian society, I want to say about what KIP is doing or about what Unity is doing, you are also responsible. And that's exactly, harsh and true. Because if you, society, cannot stand up, if you cannot collect signatures and release this Parliament, then you deserve to live in one of the poorest countries. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: “On the bill!” ) Then you deserve that all Ventspils is put on the roads, that all Latvia is now being put on the roads only because of personal revenge, only because within 10 years people with legal education have not been able to arrange the justice system, being in power. By the way, let's remember one old fact - one old fact! Einars Repše - “New Time”, what was before the Unity, the Strīķi also wanted to be appointed to the same post without a competition. Those who have a good knowledge of history will remember this fact. This is the level of understanding of the rule of law. I'm... I'm in positions! And now we change... in the ports, we will now have more of its feed for our own! It is the only sponsor of the UKP, Ragauš, who, by the way, is linked to Kariņš' father - indirectly, but connected. An American Latvian. He has interests in ports - that is why what is happening in the port is now happening. Not a poor Lemberg (Dep. S. Riekstins: “Poor Lembergs!” ) there is the main point on which it is impacted. The main blow is to take over the ports and give them apparently for free to their sponsors. And if we look at the history, “Parex Bank” took over by the state... The State took over Parex banka and then returned it to the investors for a sandwich. And something happened by accident - something happened by chance! - that the Kariņš family had a fantastic movie “Pionier” transaction at that time. After that, the family... or someone there's a doctor... Karina’s spouse could buy a house on Tērbatas Street for several million without credit. It is very possible that after today's decisions we have to look at who will be the next Kariņš “Chief “Pionieris” transaction” and who next house on Tērbatas Street will be bought by Kariņš' spouse without credit. This Saeima must be released. ( Internouncing call.) This Saeima must be released! People who do not have higher education and who like Sandis Riekstins can only yell from the place continuously. This is the level at which they are located. ( Milestones.) This Saeima must be released, and you, the public, also you, the medical staff, are responsible for this! I call on you in every medical office to make a statement to your patients so that they sign up for the dismissal of the Saeima. And the sooner you do it, the better! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: “On the bill!” ) And, Mrs Strike, I have to say for the third time: stop running as at the time in Garciems at Polkovnik Jura. There's a Saeima, there's no Garciems, where you can walk with a half-step and get out! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Tell me about me for the third time!” ) Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U113	Name to Member Janis Butan for the second time. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U114	I heard a lot of... various fairy tales about ports in Riga and Ventspils. I ask you to be responsible, to support the draft law to help Latvia. Lemberg's over. You're free now, you don't have to listen anymore. ( Internoint.) Thank you very much. Let's vote 'for'!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U115	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? ( The drug is noise. Impressions. (Laughter) Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U116	Nothing will be added on behalf of the Commission. So, please, just support this first-reading bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U117	Please call me! We will vote on the draft law on First Reading Amendments to the Law on Ports! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 51, against - 20, abstaining - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U118	The deadline for submitting proposals would be 3.30 p.m. One hour. ( Interface: “Ooo! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U119	So the deadline... Please turn on the microphone for Janis Wittenberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U120	Hello! I propose setting a deadline for the submission of proposals at 15.00.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U121	So, half an hour, huh? Half an hour. ( Internouncing call.) So we have two proposals: the deadline for submitting proposals - an hour and the deadline for submitting proposals - 30 minutes. We have to vote. We are voting in favour. ( Internouncing call.) And the proposals? ( Internouncing call.) Please turn on the microphone for Janis Urbanovich. Three minutes... (Laughter) Okay, so we... Turn on the microphone for Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U122	I'm offering one minute.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U123	One minute. ( FROM a fraction UNDERLINE: “The minimum bid is 30 seconds! ” ) So we must vote in favour of the next proposal - one hour. Please call me! We will vote on the deadline for tabling proposals for the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Ports" - one hour! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 30 minutes. Please call me! Let us vote on the deadline for tabling proposals - 30 minutes for draft law on "Amendments to the Ports Act"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 30 minutes - remains in force. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 15.02. Please set the viewing time for the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U124	Second reading of the bill at today's Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U125	So the examination of the draft law at the Saeima sitting - 12 December this year. Thank you. Dear colleagues, There are proposals for amendments to the agenda. Members Pavļuts, Strīķe, Dzintars, Pucens and Adamovičs apply for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Municipalities” (No. 511/Lp13) moved before point 11 of the agenda. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Please call us! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Municipalities”” (No. 511/Lp13) would be carried over before point 11! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the draft law ‘Amendment to the Law on Municipalities’ has been moved before point 11 of the agenda. And Members of Pavļuts, Strike, Dzintars, Pucens and Adamovičs are asking for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Elections of City Council and District Council of the Republic” (No. 512/Lp13) moved before point 11. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Please call us! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Elections of City Council and District Council of the Republic” (No. 512/Lp13) would be carried over before point 11! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 53, 30, abstaining - not. Consequently, the decision was taken. The draft law was moved before point 11 of the agenda. We continue the sitting of the Saeima with the examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendment to Law “On Municipalities”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission – Member Dace Bluķe.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U126	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! At first reading in two days... The committee decided to refer to the first reading the amendment to the Law on Municipalities. So, now... a document from a political group: ‘What municipality is this about? Clarifying!’ )... I will immediately open it, and I will specify it. (Friction’S SAVE INTERPRETATION: “We wait, wait!” )... Yes, the amendment to the Law “On Municipalities” provides for a new wording of Section 92(3) of the Law. It reads as follows: “The Saeima shall, on the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers, appoint a temporary administration in the relevant administrative territory and determine the time limit for the new elections to the Council. The term of office of the new council and the temporary administration shall be determined by laws and regulations on elections to the cities and municipalities of the Republic. The law shall enter into force on the day following its publication.’
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U127	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U128	Hello, colleagues! Everyone knows that the meeting room is very small for the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. This week was that... on the floor sat journalists to be present at our commission meeting. Even Mrs. Strique had come and all two days were honest, holding her phone number in her hand... phone, because there are some chattes where... which she uses for communication with colleagues who raise her hand. What, then, were the hands built on? This draft law is only the first of a package of two draft laws, which could be considered to be still pending, for a draft law on the dismissal of Riga City Council not yet submitted to the Saeima... And what is the aim of this legislative package, where... who is accompanying this future bill? Of course, on the first day the applicants tried to claim that it is in no case related to the municipality of Riga, with a plan to dismiss the dome. On the second day, a sudden change of opinion was accepted as, yes, linked. All that happened in the commission was a big theatre performance according to a certain scenario. Because when a majority vote on both projects... Applicants... presented by the representative parties... offered urgency to this draft law... Well, I should have seen a surprise even in the face of the Legal Bureau representative. Because if the draft law itself could still claim that it is at least in accordance with the Constitution, then the fact that, contrary to the recommendations of the Venice Commission, any changes to electoral laws... must take place not earlier than one year before, we try to adopt laws within a few days, according to which one and the same citizen can vote within four years, for example... Even in a shorter period - three years, two years - you can vote in favour of three municipalities. You'll ask what way? A so: now, for example, will take place in Riga municipality elections, the person will go (after the declared place of residence), I will vote for the first time. Next year, he... by his property... votes in another municipality... and for the third time, for example, about the municipality that will be elected when the new or old minister of VARAM releases another municipality. Because if you have hope that these laws will be used only against Riga... I think it is hopeless. This law... These laws will be used against any municipality that will oppose the government, because, as the Legal Bureau found... Parliamentary Legal Bureau, as well as the President's legal representative, currently there is no legal mechanism in Latvia to challenge the unlawful, unlawful decision of the executive or legislative authority regarding the elected local governments of the people. That's not the case! And the government doesn't worry about it. The ruling coalition does not worry about this. What is happening today is undermining the basic principles of democratic governance in Latvia. You will steal the country for yourself and for your people. The municipalities will steal you one hundred percent today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U129	Name to Member Daniel Pavilut.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U130	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Here's the fox, there's the script, the theatre... And so... It's supposed to be Regina Lochmel-Lunova. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “You can use it! Give me a gift!” ) I wanted to remind your attention once again of the arguments that have been put forward by the draft laws. Because I have to say that a lot has just been said in the performance of my colleague Lochmel-Lunova, but I did not really hear criticism... Maybe I didn't hear... criticism of the essential reasons and considerations why these draft laws have been tabled at all. And they're the following. As you all know, the current legislation on the way in which municipal elections are held, municipal councils elections determines that if... and precedents really are not many, they are two. It is the municipality of Renda and it is the municipality of Ķekava respectively. If this Council is dismissed and there are extraordinary elections, then if there are more than 15... I am sorry if there are less than 15 months left before the current elections, then extraordinary elections are not held and the administrators of these municipalities are administered in place of democratically elected representatives in direct elections. Is that a problem? In our view, it can become a problem. At the moment, colleagues, the situation has changed. If so far we talked about the possibility of dismissal of the Riga City Council only in the form of permission, we know at the moment that the State Chancellery has submitted a draft law with a request to include it in the next meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers - about dismissal of the Riga City Council. So this process has become real, colleagues. They are no longer mowing; they are no longer assumptions. It is a concrete draft law that starts its progress in the movement of the order book of the Cabinet of Ministers... and after reaching, most likely also to the Saeima at the earliest possible time. We can assume that, in accordance with both the roll of order of the Saeima and the Constitution and other regulatory acts, these discussions can take place... and what will happen at that time? At that time, we can come to the situation that the largest municipality in Latvia, where half or more of the Latvian population - which is more than half of the Latvian economy - will be able to operate by administrators for up to 15 months, because the government will be forced and we as the Saeima will be forced to approve... the appointment of these administrators. In our view, this would not be desirable. That would not be democratic. In our view, it is necessary to change this situation and to amend the laws governing the electoral system in the municipalities by reducing this deadline. We therefore propose that this deadline should be reduced to nine months in these two related drafts. This in the eyes of the knowledgeers of law, lawyers, the knowledge of the Constitution and constitutional law... It's thought that we've found out... including in the debate that took place in the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government for two days on a possible more democratic solution. In these discussions at the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, we have found that the law historians recognise that this is an issue on which it would be useful for the Saeima to debate; that this issue is a matter for the Saeima to decide in the political debate on the rule of law. That is exactly what we are encouraging to do, that is exactly what we are doing today. We also propose that these draft laws review the arrangements for the organisation of extraordinary elections. And there's another... There's no more... There are useful reasons here: is it worth it if we have left, for example, a year and three months before the end of the term of office of the Council, as this could probably happen very soon - is it useful to organise elections... for years and three months. In our view, this is not appropriate. In our view, voters should be given the opportunity to choose their own municipality and to save at the same time money without having to hold two elections at an annual intervals. ( Internouncing call.) We do not believe that this is appropriate. And in this case, we offer to make appropriate amendments and if the municipality has worked more than half of its currently statutory four-year period, provide for this possibility to combine time limits. Thus the municipality could work... probably the newly elected municipality... an extraordinary desire... to less than six years. Another thing I want to stress. Of course, there was a short discussion about urgency, but... However, I would also like to talk about this urgency, because this is not a minor factor. We must also ensure, as legislator, that this issue is dealt with thoroughly. I think this debate is really going on. Those present at the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government... As my colleague, Lochmele-Lunova, mentioned, this committee's meeting room was full of standing stones. There was a discussion, various opinions were represented. There was also a sharp change in words for some time, but discussions on the substance of the draft law took place. Urgency is essential, in my view, also from the point of view that now, society, the media... We Members here in the hall... Riga City Council also knows that such a draft law has begun its progress. The probability of dismissal of Riga City Council is now becoming real. We will have to make a decision on this. It is therefore important that we are acting here in the Saeima, closing loopholes in the electoral system of municipalities and publicising clarity - clarity for the public, for what period, under what conditions, could happen in the nearest... these extraordinary elections, if we decide on this, at the Riga Council. And to prevent the risks that I mentioned, namely to increase democracy in the electoral system of local governments and to reduce the time period within which administrators can manage instead of elected members, from 15 to 9 months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U131	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U132	Dear colleagues, Well, let's start with that... with the last one that my colleague, Mr Pavļuta, said, was or was not talking about. I only visited the second day... these meetings. I can't talk about the first day. On that second day, at the meeting of the Commission of State Administration and Municipality, I had not seen any discussion in substance. In my view, the discussion is when the proposers discuss, exchange their views, answer each other's questions or, if it is a coalition against the opposition, then the coalition and the opposition debate. Then it is a discussion. If 99 percent of the speakers are only members of the opposition, it is not a debate! It is not a debate! What is the discussion if, after about 20 minutes... or how much was there... After the opening of the sitting, the Parliamentary Secretary A.T.... A. T.... Secretary... Cinderella... No... ( Internouncing call.) began... proposed ending the debate and moving on to the vote, and the same was proposed by all the other members of the coalition. Is this a discussion? Is it then possible to say that the discussion has been? I'm actually sure that's the following question, right? If we look at an annotation of the draft law, which says why such a draft law has been presented at all... What is this written here? ‘ The Constitutional Court has indicated that the State has great freedom of choice in the exercise of electoral rights.” So in essence we can change it, we are changing it, because we can. Is that justified? Why don't law-makers tell what... You know, everyone knows, the whole society is reading news... is a realistic justification. That Development/About! want to release Riga City Council... and that the extraordinary elections should be as soon as possible and that its newly elected Riga City Council would work for almost six years. Why? Because they think that they now have the best chance of winning this political battle, either, or at least of getting the greatest number of votes. And then we would all know that this coalition thinks it's okay in general - to hold elections not when they have to be under the law, but: "Oh, we have a good rating today, a low rating for our opponents! We take the elections tomorrow!’ That's what it is, isn't it? That's why... Why don't you write something like that in this declaration... in this annotation, I'm sorry. And then I have another question. Now Mr. Pavilut is very busy, but yet. I will also read here from this taboo by the applicants, where the first who has signed is Daniel Pavilut. I... I assume, therefore, that Mr Pavlut, if not himself wrote, has at least become familiar with this annotation. Thus, it states: “In addition, the principle of the legitimacy of state power, which ensures that the sovereign government, the nation, must have an influence on decision-making in the country, follows the principles of democracy. In other words, the power of the State must be the legitimacy of the people.’ Then I have a question for you, colleagues, and for those who are tabling this bill. If you are already such a great advocate of democracy, why do you not give an opportunity to decide on the dismissal of the Riga City Council and to initiate the dismissal of the Riga City Council directly to the people, the Riga residents? What troubles you, or what has hindered you all this year, when you have the majority in the Saeima? You have a majority in the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. What has prevented you from moving forward and amending the law on municipal referendums? You show it, you can do it in the day... half an hour deadline for the submission of proposals, discussions, if any? And that's it. So what are you afraid of? Do you think that the Rigans will not support that initiative? If you say that democracy is a value for you, be consistent - give the Rigans their own rights, the opportunity to decide whether they want to forgive Riga's thought or not. Well, finally, I'm in those discussions that were yesterday... so-called discussions... I asked Mr. Pavļuta if nothing was said here about having something to do with the dismissal of the Riga City Council... And Mr Pavļuta said that this annotation is true and comprehensive. But nothing about the dismissal of Riga City Council has been said in that claim, in this justification. Then maybe Mr. Pavlut will once again step up on this platform and say that this bill has nothing to do with our minister... with his Minister, Mr. Puce, planned the dismissal of Riga City Council. Then say it to the protocol! Please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U133	Before we continue the debate, colleagues, Members Vitenbergs, Feldmans, Dzintars, Paviluts and Strike ask not to announce a break from 3.30 to 3.30 p.m. to 3.30 p.m., but to announce a break from 15.30 to 16.30 p.m. Do Members have objections? ( FROM a faction: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Please call us! We will vote for the break from 3 p.m. to 3.30 p.m., but for the break from 3.30 to 4.30 p.m.! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. So the break is not announced from 15.00 to 15.30, but from 15.30 to 16.30. ( FROM a faction: “Do what you want! ” ; “The Justice!” ; “Without borders!” ) We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U134	Some observations. I understand Mr Pavļuta's concerns about not creating temporary administration emergencies... Well, not emergency situations... emergency elections... until the extraordinary elections are announced. That is very easy to understand. It's extremely difficult to find an administrator in this coalition's friend terror, who could also be entrusted with this responsible mission. It's one of the problems... naturally, encourages an extension of the term of office and action to be taken differently. But it's not a story. What democracy is this about today? We are talking about the fact that, here, these amendments are intended for all municipalities. One point. That they are in no way related to the possible dismissal of Riga City Council. Two points. Now it appears that perhaps the Cabinet of Ministers will still support and present to the Saeima a draft law on the dismissal of Riga City Council. Perhaps you can tell me what the result of the vote will be? I can say: 53 - for. As a result, today 53 wise heads opposite the other stupid heads will decide that the Riga City Council should be released. The next day there will be another vote on the dismissal of another council, and so on, and so on, and this democratic process will continue to endure forever. And we will talk about the fact that, here, we are taking care of the development of democracy, democracy is our point of number one. The next point is the rule of law - uncompromising. If we are talking about an uncompromising rule of law, in this case we are talking about an administrative act that makes it possible to release the elected council, which is, by the way, not 100 smart heads, but also citizens, citizens, even citizens of the European Union. In this case, there must be an appropriate motivation why it is. As has already been mentioned at the commission meeting, such motivation existed and there was also legal expertise by the Prosecutor General. Today, perhaps it should be entrusted to the Constitutional Court, but there is no such proposal. And it doesn't appear in the bill. That's a point two. And point three. It's a matter of urgency. Today, it's... During the period of existence of the existing Saeima, the Ministry has submitted several proposals amending the law “On Municipalities”, and has formally expressed its wish to submit to the Saeima a new draft law “On Municipalities” drawn up from zero in March next year. Today, we already have another question that we are looking at about municipalities... There will also be a certain stick on that law... Today, we are also going to try to tackle this important problem in the extravagant way, without thinking that democracy and the rule of law should really be strengthened. And this should be discussed and decisions taken on it, not as hastily been made, adopted today. And you don't have to make jokes and you don't have to pretend that until... it's not yet known how Riga City Council will be fired. I say what I said right at the beginning. That question has been decided. And neither the Rigans nor the rest of Latvia are involved in this process. I saw pickets at the Saeima door: “Nost with the Saeima!” “Let’s get signatures to release the Saeima!” I didn’t see any picket that would ask of the legislators: “Forgive the Saeima... Riga Council, because otherwise you can't continue your life!” There was no one at the door of Riga City Council or at the door of Saeima. That's why that question... I'm sure we need to hurry up. But it would be even better if the draft law was rejected. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U135	Name to Member Raiv Dzintar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U136	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Listening to this dramatic debate really gives the impression that democracy in Latvia will soon end. It seems to me that democracy will not end. The end will probably come to the ruling coalition of the Riga City Council, and I, of course, very much hope that this will be the case. And, of course, to a large extent, why we are talking about these rather technical amendments (interdependence.) - And... regarding possible dismissal of Riga City Council... Undoubtedly. There is an impression that nobody is coming from the tribunal and is not opposed to other draft laws (and is not opposed to the dismissal of Riga City Council in public space), because somehow everyone understands that the Riga City Council is so unpopular and it is obvious that it is necessary to forgive it that it is difficult to join. Hence, someone else should be chosen. And in this case, as an object has been chosen enough, well, technical proposals. This draft law and the next one we will talk about, where we decide that if the municipality is dismissed, how to do it as logically as possible, intelligently and more in the public interest. So this discussion is not ideological, this discussion is practical. And when discussing with the supporters of our party too, when they listen to their opinion, their opinion is that it is not wise to appoint administrators for 15 months, that a shorter deadline is more reasonable, and that is what we will also vote on, that if there are extraordinary elections to the Riga City Council or any other municipal elections in a similar situation, so that this happens in the most advantageous way for society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U137	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U138	Good afternoon! Mr. Amber! The debate on the dismissal of Riga City Council has not yet started! So you don't have to worry - there will be both arguments and 'no' and with all the facts... Unlike you... and with everything that pleases you very much. Mr. Pavilut! You are blaming me that there is no argumentation. Okay. I'll remind you of what I've already told you in the commission. In the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 23 September 2002 in the case No. It was said: "The change in essential electoral rules shortly before the current elections has a negative impact on their conduct. If there is a question of changing electoral rules in society, it takes a certain amount of time to give the public the opportunity to express their views." It would give the public an opportunity to express their views. According to this draft law, consultations have taken place with only one institution - with VARAM. That's enough? Is that a society? It is not to be said that someone is opposed to holding extraordinary elections after the dismissal of the Riga City Council, if it is dismissed on the ground. No one is opposed to this. It is about the fact that the Council will be elected for five years and nine months and, in order to make their choice, you and the voters will have three months - three months! - to prepare a quality offer to develop a quality program to account for voters for what has been done, which is not... during the previous election period and what we will do next. Three months? Are you serious? And people will wish for five years and nine months... There'll be a lot less here... five years, six months... Now the game is taking place... I think some of you are sitting with calendars in your pockets. Mr. Pavilut, I really forgot my plan here because I never wrote... very rarely when writing, I usually have such a plan. There was one point that I really didn't talk about. Here it reads: “Puce, demission.” And I haven't come up with that. Yesterday there was the “Direct speech” programme where there was an opportunity for viewers to vote on the proposed options. The first option was to dismiss the Riga City Council. The second was not to release the Riga City Council. And the third option was to derision himself Puce. And who won? Guess it! Seeers (Dep. S. Riekstins: “Almost equal!” )... The viewers voted to send Puce himself. That doesn't mean anything to you? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “And just as it was that Riga City Council had to be released!” ) What do people think about... More. If, however, the Riga City Council is dismissed (I also told it about it in the Commission), Latvia could enter the history of the European Union with the biggest – the biggest –! - the number of municipalities made redundant throughout the history of the European Union. Because with the creation of the European Union... Only two municipalities were made redundant between all the countries of the European Union. One is in Italy, such a town called Redjo di Calabria, where there are 186 thousand people. And another city in Spain - Marbella, where there are 141 thousand people. As my colleagues have already said, in Latvia we have so far... We fired Rinda, where 966 people live, and Ķekava, 23 220 people. No question about it back then... About Ķekava... whether the temporary board will be able to manage Ķekava... No, no, no, no, no, This is a sudden concern, of course, because - once again - it is about the largest municipality in Latvia, it is about one of Europe's largest municipalities. And you would like to do as no other country in the European Union can afford to do with the Riga people, with the people of the capital of Latvia. And read for which both Italian and Spanish small towns were fired. Maybe that's something for you... I don't know how to even address you today! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U139	The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U140	Hello, dear colleagues! Yes, for two days, we really had a very wide-ranging discussion about this and the future bill that we are going to see, because they can be seen together. I would say that the debates and discussions during these two sittings were one of the greatest and most extensive ones I have seen in this term, because indeed these issues were covered from a wide range of points. And it is a great pleasure that various experts - rights and constitutional rights - also gave their opinion on this... on these draft laws and made it clear that the way in which the electoral procedure is being discussed, about the municipal elections in particular... here there is neither a constituencies nor a Constitution... there are no legally significant risks. It is a political decision where politicians come to the best view in the debate, in which we organise municipal elections. And here, too, I would like to point out to the debaters who have spoken here before - coming to the tribunal, confuse everything in the same pot - emergency elections, regular elections. This particular case, which we are talking about, is a case of emergency elections. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “There is no such definition in the law!” ) If that is the case, then... if there is such a situation that the Council must release... which must be a legal basis. There must be a clear solution on how we go further. And, Mr Dombrovskis, if you want to ask the commission questions, then you have to. What we saw in two days... Okay, you were only the second day... the applicants were asked very little questions. And now you're coming and you're saying from the pub that they're the submitters... There was no right to speak at all. It really was. So that questions need to be asked, and they will certainly also be answered. Reiterating that there is no change in the elections here. It will also not change the fact that municipal elections will take place every four years. If we are talking about democratic principles, non-democratic principles, then, for example, Belgium, France, where local governments are elected for six years, they are living more undemocratic than we are? I would like to emphasise once again that really... that there are two very important considerations in this case, which must be taken into account. First of all. We're... It is difficult to see what the original legislator's will was, saying that if it happened... the council is dismissed and has this term - 15 months - that these administrators in the municipality can operate for such a long time. As the various experts also pointed out, this 15-month period is very long... the importance of decisions on the behaviour of a particular municipality being taken by democratically elected municipal members. And even more so - indeed, while there is this question about the possible dismissal of Riga City Council... where it is the largest municipality here in Latvia... it is very important that, in this case - potentially, if this is the case - citizens know and have said their word about who makes decisions instead of them. Consequently, I see that when tabling this draft law, the applicants have acted politically responsibly, both from the point of view of the common system and from the point of view of the future, in what way, if potential burdens or situations arise, what we do and how we act... and make this system more democratic as a whole. So, I think, colleagues, come on! Everyone has the opportunity to speak. The debate is very important on this issue... as many have already said. I call for support to be given to this draft law as well as to the future. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U141	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U142	Dear colleagues, So then, about the debate that has been initiated... I can talk about the second day. As far as I understood, the second day was attended by a representative of the Legal Bureau and a legal adviser to the President. Questions to the Legal Office... and the President's adviser, Plep, was instructed only by members of the opposition. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Kursīte-Pakule: “It’s not true!” ) No one... No Member was in the Commission's position with any question to the Legal Bureau. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Kursīte-Pakules intersacres.) Why? So, again, what is the debate? The debate is when people come if... with what... above, so to say, previous positions... if they're ready... They come ready to listen to the arguments of the other party and, if these arguments are convincing, they also change their decision. No debate has taken place in this respect. There was no discussion, because the members of the opposition, so to speak, monologue or the fact that they had a debate between themselves in the opposition - it is not a debate. It was quite obvious that all members of the coalition came with a decision that had been made in the past, such as the vote on urgency. There was no debate at all about this, but somehow every coalition Member knew that he had to vote in favour of the urgency. Therefore, my fellow Members, there was no debate. Let me... to ask, even one question, Mr Pavļuta, the author of this bill, I almost had to pass the vote. Members of the Commission almost voted to give me an opportunity to ask this question. Vott, that's the debate... so called... have been at this commission meeting. And... Mr Pelša, who was talking to us here from the bar, told us about it. (Interface: "Pleas!" )... VARAM's Parliamentary Secretary, who just told us about how... how wonderful the debate has been, as I have already said, that it myself, after some 20 minutes, proposed not to speak about this again and to move on to the vote. Such democracy, such a discussion has been there. And that is the understanding of the "new policy" of the parliamentary debate. Therefore, colleagues, once again, all that is happening here is that one concrete political force, specifically for Development/About! , wants to change the rules of the game - the law - to ensure a more favourable result for the Riga City Council elections. That's absolutely all that is. You think it's good or normal, or whatever, but it's not. There is one thing - to win the opponent in an honest fight, to convince the voter that you have the best offer (whether it will be at the Riga Council or elsewhere) within the existing rules of the game. And there is another thing - to change those rules of the game in order to give yourself a better result. With this you only confirm your weakness and fear. You're afraid that the existing rules of the game you can't... You can't win. And you think the voter doesn't see it or understand it. See and understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U143	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U144	Hello! I did not take part in the debate in the Commission. I saw Mrs. Strique, who stood in the door and put all who were in there in his own home, and I realized that the grass was really full... Small... and was very interested in this draft law. But I would like to say that listening to the debate here... If at present we would not have any exacerbations in relation to the Riga City Council, if it were simply a debate that we are introducing such a procedure and that we are referring it to the next period when the next municipal term begins (i.e. after the municipal elections, which are all over Latvia), then it would seem to me that it would be very correct and normal, and acceptable. I think we should definitely also consult with civil society, with organisations, with those organisations that work in close connection with local governments not only in Riga, but also elsewhere in Latvia and ensure that the functions provided by local governments are carried out. But the main thing we get is... In fact, we should raise this debate for five years at a much different level, because now... The municipal elections take place every four years, and if we wanted to go ahead with public money and want more voter activity and political participation, then we... It would be right to combine local elections in general with the Europarlament elections and also to increase this deadline to five years indeed. I think it would be the right step, it would be the right direction. Of course not within a day or a few days and... as a matter of urgency. What I want to say is that the debate is necessary and must be there. At this point in time, it seems that the majority is trying to establish rules for themselves. Well, you really want you to be in Riga City Council for a longer time. But, you know, you can also fall in. And if really Aivars Lembergs comes to Riga and participates in the elections, then it will be five years for him in Riga.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U145	Name... So, Mr Gobzem, would you have enough time for the debate to break? ( Internouncing call.) Then we go on a break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Time for notification. Dear colleagues, Mrs. Strique and Mr. Skride, please break... After the sitting, come straight to me. ( Milestones.) The name for Mrs. Golubeva's registration... Sorry, name's Janis Wittenberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U146	Colleagues! I invite you to meet at the meeting of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. at 15.25 a.m.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U147	The name to Mrs Golubeva for reading the results of the registration as soon as they are prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U148	Not registered: Raimonds Bergmanis, Boriss Cilevičs, Jānis Dombrava, Aivars Geidāns, Andrejs Judins, Artuss Neimins... Judins here, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Rihards Kols, Ainars Latkovskis, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Ivans Ribakovs, Lubova Švecova and Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U149	Thank you. Interruption until 16.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U150	Dear colleagues, We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to Law “On Local Government””. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U151	It's like, while everyone's coming to school, they're taking their seats, they're setting up... And then you can start. What I want to say is this example... amendments to the law “On Local Government”, which are directly related to the Riga City Council, the extraordinary elections of the Riga City Council, which... It has not yet been said that this will happen. They still need to be voted on, but these are the preparatory work. That is, the problem that is... I would like to talk about the quality of the Saeima's work. It is clear that there are several directions in which the Saeima works. One direction is to adopt laws and not to enforce them. And then there's a second direction. It is called a Kazuistic direction, namely to adopt laws for a particular case. Not systemically correct laws, but on a case-by-case basis. And, in fact, these specific amendments are such a Kazuist issue. What does that mean? That means one. This means that the quality of the Saeima's work is very low. Because if Members of Parliament want to make good laws, good quality laws, they don't deal with Kazisistism, they don't make laws for a particular case. What the “Development/About!” in this case is driven by '-they try to adopt the law so that their party can enjoy better conditions when starting municipal elections, in one particular election. The adoption of Kazuist laws - this is not the first and unfortunately not the last one - has led to many of the legal problems that are... ( The ring of noise.) I can't speak here all the time! ( Milestones.) No, well... I understand that the hammer is hit only when the coalition's representative speaks; when the opposition, then it doesn't matter. It's usually that way, yeah... It is not the first time in this respect either. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “Speak!” ) I understand, of course, that the quality of its Parliament's work is different from that of a developed country and such a vassal country. Let us say, in that vasal country, of course, it is necessary to deal with all related matters during the parliamentary term, not in the public interest. And the presidency of the developed country's parliament... the sittings of the parliament concerned are chaired by a neutral person, not by one who plays a coalition and is, in fact, opposed to the opposition. Well, that's it... No observations have been made here. But what I want to say when I finish the subject. Adoption of Kazuist laws... conceptual... I am not talking about Riga City Council elections in this case, but I am speaking conceptually. The adoption of Kazuist laws then means in practice the application of complicated and often erroneous laws. This leads to the fact that we have long, complicated legal proceedings, which leads to the fact that we do not have a legally predictable order of things, that people cannot rely on the law on us. And... and... from the point of view of lawmaking, this is, of course, not the right thing to do. But, I understand, the coalition doesn't care. They're getting faster and going home, because we're working almost full time. That's how long the coalition can't sit down. If we are talking about the specific situation and the Riga City Council, this Kazuist example... to the Riga City Council... means only one thing. This means that such an amendment to the law can always be applied in every election. In principle, this means that it will be possible to dismiss the municipality... actually, well, if we feel that at a given moment a power party might be a little better... or a slightly worse rating for an opponent, then we release a particular municipality and make extraordinary elections. That's how we get five or six years in a municipality... Whether it's in Riga or something else - it doesn't matter. And that's undemocratic. This is not democratic. If it happens once - it's like giving the devil a little finger. Well, if it's once, then there's another, third... and then it will be a system. It will be a system in the municipality from the beginning, then a system in the country. Well, why the Saeima's term of office... If more than four years can already be extended by the municipality, then the Saeima can also be extended. Then, too, the term of office of the President of Latvia can be extended for a longer period, and in such a way. And... the problem is that the coalition is walking in the tributary... and I am sorry that Daniel Pavlut is on the table and says that this has been discussed very seriously by the commissions, which is of course a lie. There has been no serious debate in the parliamentary commissions on this matter. And in fact it is driven simply by impacting through so that you can be able to make a real February... On February 29, in order to be able to hold Riga City Council elections. Since last week, the only thing that has changed is that apparently last week, in order for society to remember, it was a vote on gambling. Daniel Pavlut did not vote as “Development / For!” . Hence, it is likely that Daniel Pavlut had to remove his candidacy from the mayor’s office. Most likely! Most likely! And so now there is another candidate who voted for gambling in Riga! Now he's a businessman... Mr. Tank... Mr. Stakis, as a businessman, understands that from the poorest... Dependent parts need to continue to take money, so he also voted to continue gambling in Riga. But all this is wrong! We cannot make laws for some selfish, I do not know for one, two, three, or four parties. However, we must adopt laws in the public interest, and the rule of law, which you have mentioned, is the first thing in the public interest. And if we talk about the rule of law, then the rule of law still comes from the Constitution. The Constitution, however, says some restrictions that apply to elected institutions. And why such restrictions exist... to elected bodies? They exist for only one reason - so that there will not be an upheaval of power. A real democratic process. Therefore, the argument that Mr. Pavļuta from the tribunal says - if the council has been working for more than two years, then there can be a maximum term of six years... But this is not a legal argument. Why should the Council have a maximum term of six years? Why not for seven years? Are seven and a half? ( FROM a fraction DECLARES: “Twelfth! ” ) Why are six exactly? There is no legal answer to this question and it is not possible for those who are driving this amendment to the law to do so either. But the law - it is a legal document, and it is therefore necessary to establish in the legal document those legal grounds why it is being directed. And by the end. It's over. ‘ Development/About!’ Mr. Staķis, Mr. Pavļuta, I understand that you are pushing forward these draft laws in the hope that you will win the Riga City Council elections. But remember, “Development / For!” , I have not yet said that I will not start at the Riga City Council. (Laughter) Remember that! And it can break all your plans. Be careful and not overcalculate! Therefore, better comply with the law and, if there are extraordinary elections to the Riga Council, let them take place according to the law for 15 months, as currently provided by our existing constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U152	The debate was not yet closed. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. “ What do you have, Ivar?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Why can’t you press the button in time?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U153	Colleagues! If all you have said here today is not just hypocrisy, it is not simply an attempt to make a political decision, it is not an attempt to replay the situation for yourself in order to be able to form political intrigues, then all the same arguments that you have applied to the municipal elections would be right to extend to the parliamentary elections. I mean, that... if this term has become less than half, then the Saeima - if an extraordinary election comes (which may be the case), we shall also implement these extraordinary elections according to the same principles: if there is less than half left, then the Saeima shall be elected both for this remainder of the parliamentary term and for the time of the next Saeima. You will have the opportunity to show that what you did was not hypocrisy. That it is not just political manipulation; that you will support, with the same passion, the same arguments as you have said, the following amendments to the Saeima. Otherwise, you just keep laughing at the inscription that's your... on the wall of your government, - “One law - one justice for all”. Once again. And I call on the public to remember it.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U154	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U155	Two more things that need to be said in this context. The first is that which is not in the draft law and which the legislative leaders have not understood. Let us assume that they are now saying: elected for six years. Extraordinary Elections... And it elects, but after half a year, that thought is also released - that which was elected in an extraordinary election. Then the next one is elected - for how long? 12 years or six years again? What term is it then elected? That's not regulated by law. And so it's another legal problem. And the other thing... The second thing I want to say to the public. In order for the public to understand why I usually speak louder when I climbed the platform. Because... Because in this room, usually when someone comes out of the gallery, the whole parliament is talking to each other, and you can't hear what you're talking about, because that's what's happening here. It cannot be seen and heard by those who watch live or listen live, but it is a feeling from this tribunal, and it is therefore necessary to speak in an elevated tone, because there is a part of society that understands only when they shout on them. And there's a feeling that that part of society, one of its parts of society, is in this room. They only understand when there is an elevated tone. And you can speak in an elevated tone. When you speak calmly, no one listens here, then all talk to each other. And that's classics! It is not only today, it is always, and it was my greatest surprise to become a member of the Saeima. When you come in here, you think that a high-quality discussion is taking place here, but it is not true; there is actually one person who speaks from a tribunal, and then there are very many Members who talk with one another out loudly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U156	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U157	In the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government it was decided on the urgency of the draft law, therefore the commission (Intersor.) asks the Saeima to declare that draft law urgent. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U158	Please turn on the microphone for Gundar Many.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U159	President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, According to Rule 92 of the parliamentary roll... The first paragraph of Rule 92 shall decide on urgency before a debate on the draft law at first reading is held. The debate has just been closed by the chair of the sitting, so that we can no longer vote on the urgency of the law. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “Who follows the laws here?” ) We can therefore vote in favour of the draft law at first reading. ( FROM a faction: “Game over! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U160	Can we? Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to Law “On Municipalities” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 49, for - 26, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U161	The deadline for the submission of proposals to the Commission was set at one day. ( FROM a faction: “You can’t! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U162	Not possible. ( FROM THE GROUP AS TOWARD: “Read the Rules of Procedure! ” ) So... Consequently, the earliest possible deadline for the submission of proposals is 17 December this year. Please turn on the microphone for Sergey Dolgopolov! Do you want to talk about submitting proposals... Is that so? No, no. So Mr Dolgopolov does not want to speak. ( Internouncing call.) Please turn on the microphone for Sergey Dolgopolov!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U163	First of all, the Commission has not taken a decision on the deadline for the submission of proposals - five days. We therefore have a free choice today. I offer two weeks - until December 26. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U164	Are there any other proposals? Please turn on the microphone for Arthur Pleys!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U165	Yes, I wanted to talk about the procedure in this context. In the context of the Commission's opinion, this draft law calls for urgency. I would like to comment on how we can solve this. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U166	Please turn on the microphone for Eric Pucen!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U167	Yeah. I would have asked to set a deadline for the submission of proposals... 16 December ( Subtotal: “You can’t! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U168	After the 17th... Please turn on the microphone for Mārtiņš Bondar!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U169	I would suggest, colleagues, that the deadline for tabling proposals is... if there is no urgency already, then there are five days. Thank you. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U170	So we have a deadline for tabling proposals - 17 December. Do Members want to vote on this? ( Milestones.) 26. So 26 December and 17 December. So let us first vote on the next deadline for tabling proposals, 26 December. Please call me! We will vote on the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law “Amendment to Law “On Local Government”” - December 26, this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 17 December this year - remains in force. Dear colleagues, The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined and prepared for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Ports” of the Saeima meeting. The Commission requests that changes be made to the agenda of the sitting and that it be included in the review of the draft law on “Amendment to the Law on Municipalities”. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Ports” at second reading to be included on the agenda of the sitting after the review of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Local Authorities”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 51, against - 24, abstaining - not. Consequently, the decision was taken. On the agenda - Draft Law on Ports Act, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U171	Consequently, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined and prepared for a second reading an urgent draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Ports’ (No. The second reading was followed by seven proposals. 1. ... ( Internouncing call.) What, please?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U172	Please report, don't talk to the hall!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U173	Proposal No 1 - Member Maris Kučinskis's proposal, which, in fact, is clear from the proposal, aims to ensure that the port of Riga... The port management would still remain in its previous composition and continue to be its shadow of corruption there. This is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U174	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U175	Colleagues! I believe that there are two major problems in our country. ( Internouncing call.) The first is the fragmentation of our society, which has been purposefully cultivated by the ruling parties, in order to maintain the red lines that allow them to be irresponsibly and unsatisfied with power (Interpretative call: 'For the proposal!'). ), and that's why... It's about the proposal... Therefore, it is not possible to change power in this country, self-cleaning of power does not take place. The result is the second biggest problem - corruption in our country. And to fight corruption... and I will support any step that is linked to a really real fight against corruption, but what is happening at the moment... I think Wishinski just cry out of happiness now in his tomb. What you are doing at the moment. ( Intercretion: “No blasphemy, yes! ”) ) Because of the nature of what do you offer? You propose to deal with something, not on the basis of facts, not on the basis of arguments, not in a legal way, but simply on the basis of suspicion, announcing a revolutionary belief: here these are the bad ones, they must be counted. And that's how... if someone has read the draft law you voted on... how it is applied... it is proposed to apply these sanctions, let us say so, against Riga, against the port of Riga. About Ventspils - there everything is clear. There really could not be found (Interior call.) ... we could not find any evidence; our international colleagues have helped to do so. We assume that they have indeed done so, and we take appropriate action. But with regard to Riga... If you read the bill, then... there is just one sentence: the government concludes that there are major corruption risks in the port of Riga. And then there's no fact - no fact at all! - about it. And on that basis we now change the law, let's make the law! This is not the case in the State of the law, which should have been listed in the State of the law. Now that we have a commission meeting, I ask for these facts. Inability to submit these facts. There are no facts! Moreover, the board member, who was in the port of Riga, claimed that everything is right that everyone works in good faith. Then, on the basis of what we're doing... Are we making such a law? That's why I think what Mr. Kučinsky is offering... it is justified that we take the Riga City Council out of this law for the time being. Or, come here and give those facts. Otherwise, you are once again dealing with legal nihilism. Because if you want to fight corruption, it must be done in a legal way. Otherwise... you, trying to eat one snake, making another one - even more snake. And as a result, you will get even more problems from all of this. Colleagues! Now come and do things to the end! Otherwise, you will not improve the situation, but will get it straight. And in essence, you are now acting as Bolsheviks, according to the best examples of Bolsheviks. As I said, Wishinsky is crying out of happiness in his tomb, seeing all this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U176	The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U177	Dear colleagues, In my opinion, the debate on this draft law lacks at least two important points. First of all. The port workers, the workers, are desperately fighting for every tonne of cargo. And I am not convinced, after today's debate, that all the speakers understand this clearly. And point No. 2. The authors of the draft law here and immediately should calm down those people who work in this sector. There is now a need for clear guarantees that the situation of workers will not deteriorate, income levels will not fall and people will continue to have jobs. And all speakers, including those who smell on the oligarchs and so on, have to understand that from the moment when the lack of trust in the management of Latvian ports was actually expressed and the activities of corporate management were questioned, employees are concerned about how and how possible reforms will affect their employment and social situation. Therefore, I invite the authors to give an immediate answer to the question whether these measures that you intend to take will affect the number of jobs in the ports of Latvia and the remuneration of employees. Who is ready to take responsibility - I am asking for a table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U178	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U179	Dear Members, Dear President, I also attended the meeting of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy with my proposal and, in fact, remained even more sad and, to some extent, deceived. Insidiously, now it seems that they're all... Whereas such empty journeys have been... to Belarus, Japan, India... telling us what the prospects are and what we can do with our ports. Believe me, as an economist, I also looked very... I really... where the greatest advantages and potential exist. And clearly it is the Freeport of Riga with yet-free countries, which are given to China and Chinese entrepreneurs and all potential interested parties, so that they can still form their logistics centres there. And tomorrow they will receive a signal through their embassies that there is high corruption in the port of Riga and that there is no better need to go there and make their investments. I assume that it will take longer to recover from it. Of course, I am looking at these young heroes, Mrs. Strike, with her handcuffs, who in the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy looked carefully at the fact that the rest, like the zombies for hard faces, would, to say, vote and just not break something of this discipline... and would be accepted. Otherwise, I understand that other laws are also at stake. I know how the coalition works, and yet I have an extraordinary... It's extremely sad... and that's all I want to say right now to stay on the vernacular. I'm sure it's gonna be cool. And the relentlessness will be big enough and felt enough. And then do not blame the opposition that has spoken too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U180	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U181	Two things. First thing. Of course, it seems very strange to me that at the Freeport of Riga, which includes representatives of state and local government, all these representatives vote for decisions if? And the vote in principle is the same. And the result is that some who vote just like the others are not involved in corruption, but the others who vote in the same way are involved in corruption. Somehow... Something illogical, that proposal sounds from this coalition at the moment. That's why it would be... If you already say that there is such a huge corruption in the Freeport of Riga, then also release all the representatives of the state that you have placed in the Freeport as a feed, so that there are bigger wages. Your guys should have an alley so they can make fun of it. Let them go, too! And then it would be at least understandable what you want to fight there. But at the moment, it is not really understandable. That's the first thing. And the second thing. I would like to ask questions to this Parliament and to the general public. And these questions are the following. Do you not think that the UKP, especially the Utah Strike and the Bordeans, which have actually created this situation, is, by their very nature, only designed to be destroyed, destroyed and destroyed? Do you not think that this organization, like such Bolsheviks, is not able to create anything good in place? Everything has been in only one direction so far - to destroy, destroy, eliminate. ( Subtotal: ‘ Take it away! ’) ) And there is also the question: where then do these Bolsheviks have a national development plan? What to do so that tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, all Ventspils will not be left without funds? What can you do? And what exactly have you done to remove these sanctions from the Freeport of Ventspils? And why it is, it is also logically explained. And that explanation is simple. In his life, Juta Strīķe, the UK leader, has not created, created and earned any benefits, but has only sat on taxpayers' money. And that is why it is also obvious that good results can only be achieved by eliminating, destroying and despite the development of the country as a whole, but only by the narrow interests of its sponsors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U182	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U183	Dear colleagues, We're here... How many... We've been living here for some year or more... Moneyval’s “grey” list, so to speak, in the shadow. We are now always telling us that we are at risk of putting us on that grey list right now, right now, right now, right now, we are going to have to do it, that's what we're going to do. What wasn't done? The laws were amended. Installing... actually removed... its legal... presumption of innocence. So now, I think no foreigner in his common sense will come here with anyone... with any assets, because you've now accepted such a... legislation is that he can immediately take it away. EUR 14 million has been spent as a minimum to recruit new officials to combat money laundering and so on. But here's the question: what if, in February, we still decide that we will be included in that grey list? Because, as the new U.S. Ambassador has recently confirmed in his article... Regarding the answer to the question whether Latvia will be included in that grey list, he wrote: “I don’t know.” He doesn't know. So it will be quite amusing that, after all the amendments to the laws, after all the millions and dozens of new officials, we will still be included in that grey list. And then... What's even more funny? The fact that, if we are included in that grey list, then we will see that nothing really happened to the economy - no Krach has entered. For example, Iceland was recently included in the grey list. And what? We see headlines, we see reports that Iceland's economy ends, that no one can pay abroad and so on? We can't see anything like that. I... Colleagues, why am I saying all this about that grey list? Tell me, please, those who have anything at all... is in the course of all the laws adopted within one day - a do you have at least some confidence or information at all that if you accept all these amendments now, the US will really take away the Freeport of Ventspils from that black list? Or you're acting at all without any... Let's say, without any idea, huh? That we're gonna do this maybe we're gonna do it. Didn't work? Okay. Then let's do this. Let us further amend this law and this law. Let us also recruit some new officials. Do you have at least some information from the Prime Minister, from the Minister of Transport, that they have had a meeting, they have talked to these US people, and that they have given you guarantees that you have to do this, and that and that, and then, definitely, will be removed from the Freeport of Ventspils from this list? Because I don't see anything about this in the annotation. So if you don't look like... in such a sad case, if after all this Ventspils Freeport is not removed from this list? Can anyone answer that question? Please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U184	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U185	Colleagues! For my part, too, I call on you to support Mr Kučinski's proposal and not to interfere with the port of Riga in this story. Do not build! Those who have experience in business understand that building confidence in business even at company level, where it is still at national level, has been built for years and is very easy to destroy. With one such statement that there are high corruption risks in Riga, you delete the work and investment done by the heads of government, as well as the leaders of the Freeport of Riga, for many years. Not only time, but also money. And what I think must be understood in this story, too, is that you do not solve the problem by nature. This has already been pointed out quite easily by the Members here in the Tribunal, but it has also been pointed out by the international assessors - if you really believe that there are high risks of corruption, then what should be done must be the law enforcement authorities in order to do their job. Is there at least one criminal case proposed for any corrupt transactions in the Freeport of Riga administration? No, it's not! At least I don't know that. And if you try to mitigate these corruption risks by changing board members, then it is really remarkable that you are throwing a shadow in this way on those government delegated representatives who are still working there. In Riga - Baiba Bane, Gineta Innusa, Pavels Rebenoks, Viesturs Zeps; in Ventspils - Ģirts Valdis Kristovskis, Inguna Strautmane, Rūdolfs Nerets, Laila Spaliņa. No decision may be taken at any free port solely on the basis of the members of the municipal delegated board or on the grounds of the State. There must be an almost unanimous agreement on both sides. And if we look at history, then I doubt there are many such decisions (a question of whether there is at all, especially in recent times), where there has been no consensus between the delegated representatives of the state and local authorities... by agreement. If you say that there are risks of corruption, it means that these representatives of the country have made decisions that are favourable to someone, not to the country. Think twice what you are doing! In fact, you have further discredited existing port management in this way. And the other factor I have already mentioned - if there is an extraordinary crisis in one place and we want at least part of the entrepreneurs who cannot be served at the Freeport of Ventspils administration to remain in Latvian ports, objectively in the port of Riga, then we do not want to create chaos in the port of Riga. If these proposals had come from Mr Linkaita (on the part of the policy-makers of the Ministry of Transport), who is primarily responsible for resolving the situation now with the Prime Minister, then it could still be understood, but they are not proposals from the Ministry responsible. These are political decisions that are very damaging to the economy. I am referring in particular to those political forces that have not come to the Saeima with such revolutionary conviction to combat all and to hinder the economy, "Development/Par!" THE NEW COMMITMENT, which has a huge experience, the National Union, and also the JCPOA, are the people who have been doing business. Well, listen to the arguments! Here, in this proposal, there is nothing selfish, quite the opposite: the proposal is to think about national interests at a time when we are all on the same boat. We are in a crisis situation.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U186	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U187	Prime Minister Karin says to us, society, that money is so much, so much money as never had. It's not enough for medical staff. Prime Minister Kariņš says that we are successfully fighting the financial sector. But forget to say that Latvia is likely to be on the grey list in February 2020. This will mean very serious economic problems. And a real head of state should get up on the platform and just honestly tell the public. And if such a fight happens... Why do we need to tackle, in today's context, the problem that we are talking about in relation to ports, if we have already fought so successfully all these years while the Unity has been in power? It is the most realistic and direct responsibility of Unity. HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS: UNITITY has been on the Prime Minister’s chair for more than 10 years. THE UNIFORMITY has been in the position of Minister for Finance for more than 10 years. Unity has long been a post of Minister for the Interior, Mr Kozlovsky. And today we are talking about huge corruption in the Riga Council, we are talking about corruption in the Freeport of Riga or in the Freeport of Ventspils. Who, then, is responsible for this, if not the Unity, which could change everything in these 10 years? Who is responsible for the financial sector in Latvia, which was not organised and in which there were different... many washing schemes over the last many years? Unity is what was responsible for the finances. Residents, stop listening to these licked speeches! Open your eyes and see who is responsible for the madness that is currently taking place in the territory of the Republic of Latvia! And this is Unity, which also has a Prime Minister today, who can only say from the platform about brake blocks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U188	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U189	Dear colleagues, This law... This draft law is a concrete response to the particular case, which today concerns a specific Freeport - the Freeport of Ventspils. If it really is a solution... coalition believes that this is the best solution... Even though, to be honest, I have a great scepter... That's not what we're talking about. It is about not extending this reaction to other areas, to other entities, because it weakens the nature of the reaction itself. One point. Two points. Why is Mr Kučinska's proposal to be supported? Not only because of the arguments that have already been made from this tribunal today, but also because, by rejecting this proposal and keeping the two ports in one bill, we call on the United States to apply the sanctions imposed on the Freeport of Riga. Think about it!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U190	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U191	Hello, fellow Members, again! I have already pointed out today that this draft law, which has been given special status - the urgency - is accompanied by a great deal of uncertainty. Especially unclear (I think it is absolutely not clear for the majority of Latvians) context and order of events - who went to where, who told whom, who was affected by the decision, and which contributed to the consequences that just joined the Ventspils port and Lembergs family. Lemberg’s wife’s letter has just been published in public space, where she says that she has all the funds blocked and does not really have the opportunity to buy for her children. — Dep. S. Riekstins: “To her 87 thousand - cash savings! Good morning!” )... Some Members have so much information that they are ready to share. I would be grateful to the members of the UKP for sharing information that exactly the members of your party, namely the Minister of Justice Bordāns and the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, have done in America and what information they have given to the American official. I was suspicious of what was happening last Thursday when I received answers to Members' questions about the regulation of forced land rent. The answers to the question have been signed by Tālis Linkaits - the Minister of Transport. Last Thursday. At the same time, he received information that the Minister of Justice could not attend to provide answers. I would remind you that this issue concerns 300 thousand Latvians who will remain unregulated after a new year on forced rental issues. And there will be no Latvian court... they will not have a regulatory framework for them to be able to rule on certain matters. Today I was hoping to meet the Minister of Justice to ask him all the questions. I've got information that she doesn't exist again. The question is, where is he? And does he really deal with those issues that are important to most of Latvia's population? And I beg you very much, please be respectful to the people of Latvia and try to explain to them what does not arise from the annotation of these laws. I call on you to vote in favour of this proposal 1 because it is now the first of the coherent proposals that have finally been tabled in this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U192	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U193	Yeah. The Commission has, of course, also listened to both the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport and the Acting Secretary of State... in order to understand what is then in the Freeport of Riga, and there is reason to believe that there are risks of corruption, and we all know. I also asked a question at the committee meeting about the so-called cooperation visit carried out by KNAB at the Freeport of Riga on 7 February this year. Well... confirmed that this is the case. Well, you probably couldn't tell me more. But in any case, the proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U194	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Kučinska's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 30, 52, abstaining. - No. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U195	All right. Here's two. - Mr. Wuzan's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U196	Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U197	Colleagues! I already refer to the substance of my proposal when, at first reading, we discussed this draft law today. And I really do not understand how you can talk about spatial planning, not to mention the municipality... That moment... the development programme of the municipality concerned. And here perhaps that's a much deeper problem, because, to be honest, without supporting my proposal, it looks like you are simply rolling and not even trying to correct the logical and grammatical errors that exist in the texts that someone has offered you. Because if we now read what has happened, excluding those words that you close out of the corresponding article, then I shall say, ‘The Port Authority performs the following functions in the area of private law...’. The first of these is: “... develop a draft port development programme in accordance with the approved concept of port development and spatial planning of Latvia.” And then I'll ask you what kind of spatial planning? Because if in the part you turned off out earlier, there were the corresponding areas... the planning of the corresponding local government territory... There is currently talk about some abstract area that does not concern ports or the country as a whole, and the draft law has a very high degree of uncertainty, as a result. And in this respect, I'm just telling you... I ask you to just think about it. Do you have any reason at all to accept such amendments for the planning documents that are in force in the Republic of Latvia and from which? ( Interface: “Of course not! ”) ) And to understand what things we are talking about, we have a National Development Plan, and we are now talking about territorial reform in the country. So the National Development Plan is a higher document, and this should lead to reform. In principle, with this, also with these amendments to the Ports Act, you confirm that you want to do the opposite. And those who may need more practical applications... more practical examples. Probably many of you have heard about the unsuccessful idea of the wind park between Tukums and Dobel. This wind park was not supported because there was no coordination from the local authority... from local authorities. It was not possible to include the interests of the population in the planning documents of their territory, as this was not part of the territorial development programmes. The local people had not delegated it to their local government members to include it in their development programmes. That is the order that has been set in Latvia. If there were this incentive through development programmes, it would probably also have gone differently with that wind park. I am calling for these things to think about, but I am calling for my proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U198	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U199	Dear colleagues, I have to admit, I like everything very much. I... It reminds me of the events that occurred around 2011 when the Reform Party of the time (there are also some people who participated in the event in any other way) also worked on possible port reform. But... Well, we then... All these people... they had perhaps such a naive idea of how to do their things. They ordered research from the World Bank, so the World Bank made a study on ports for some 100,000 euros. It was all discussed in the government - about, against... and so on. I have to admit that, then, together with my colleagues (some of whom are also here in the hall) did not come to mind... How?Oh, no, What are the studies?Oh, no, no, no, no, What kind of evidence-based policy is there, something like that?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You can get a message in a day... I need it, then within one day, in the Saeima to pass the law as a matter of urgency, and that's all. What evidence is there? What arguments? What kind of debate? Where is the debate here? Where is at least one representative of the coalition who wants to debate something, to argue something, somehow? But I have a few questions for you, my colleagues, reading this “big” annotation that... I'm trying to figure out what's happening to you there at all, if. For example, it is written: “The Government has concluded that the port of Ventspils and the port of Riga are at high risk of corruption (Dep. A. Muižniece: “On the proposal!” ), therefore, urgent reforms are needed in the management of these ports in order to meet the priority set out in the government declaration for the fight against corruption...’ The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Butan: “The proposal is about something else!” ) Tell me, did your government conclude exactly when? ( Internouncing call.) You have four representatives in each port: four in Ventspils and four in Riga. When have those representatives told you exactly about all those high risks of corruption? ( Milestones.) Was that yesterday, yesterday? A month ago? You have those... representatives have actually been in fact for several years. When? Question No 2. You have initially been told in the annotation that these high corruption risks are both in the Freeport of Ventspils and in the Freeport of Riga. And that's as if that's the original reason the country needs to take over it in its own management. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Muižniece: “The first reading opinion must be read!” ) But then you write in the annotation: “At the same time, in order to ensure the same principles of governance in the two largest ports of Latvia... “ At the same time, both the chairman of the sitting and V. Dombrovskis speak. Mr Dombrovskis's speech is not clear.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U200	Mr Dombrovskis, please speak on the proposal (tabled by Mr. Jānis Vucāns), which provides for the exclusion of Article 2 of the draft law... excluding the third paragraph of Article 7 of the law... the words “and the local authority’s development programme”! Please address the debate on the specific proposal. Please speak on the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U201	I'm talking about ports... on port management... The proposal is about managing ports, and I also have questions about managing ports. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Muižniece: “No, no! Read the proposal!’ ) I am sorry. Therefore, ‘... changes to the management would also be made to the management of the Freeport of Riga’. That's why... How does that work? Then why also will the Freeport of Riga? Because you need to do the same as in Ventspils? Then where is Liepaja Freeport? I think that the Freeport of Liepaja would be very insulted if you do not consider the Freeport of Liepaja to be a major port of Latvia. Go on, colleagues. You write: “This model will help to build...”... blah, blah, blah... ‘which will be directly responsible to the Cabinet of Ministers for the performance of its duties...’. So, colleagues, do you understand the governance model? Four representatives of the municipality, four representatives of the government. No decision can be taken without the consent of at least one party. No decision can be taken. Then it turns out that all this time... all this time the Cabinet of Ministers was responsible for managing ports anyway. It does not change anything now. So someone can explain to me what was meant here? I call, of course, for support to be given... I call for support for Mr Wuzan's proposal. Very good proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U202	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U203	It is, of course, absurd that it will not be important in future port operations to reconcile these ports with anything... development of municipalities, if... So the ports won't be here... port areas will not be located in the municipality, the municipality will be completely irrelevant to how the municipality develops and therefore no harmonisation or interaction or cooperation is necessary in principle. This will, of course, greatly contribute to the successful development of business; it will, of course, contribute to a very successful economic recovery - non-cooperation between the state and the municipality. I was, of course, irony. The goal is probably quite different. The aim is very simple, and society must also say: “The coalition that is ruling today has understood that all members of the ruling coalition have no place in their own people’s diets. They need their people to feed their food." Well, for example, perhaps Mr. Jaunupa - another friend or other classmate needs a place at the Freeport of Riga... or, for example, the BIP is so divided from the Freeport of Riga. Well, we have an example with the Saeima. Mr. Feldman... Member Feldman, for example, has already been placed in the presidency... I'd probably like to have a job in a free port, because there's no big salary there, well, I don't know, to run an office there. There would be a higher wage at the port. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “I control everything here at all!” Thank you very much. Since Mr Feldman himself, for example, could bring some benefit, because BMW, class 7, is no longer the first freshness. We should do better, for example. Mr. Riekstins BMW X5 is not the first freshness either, it should be better. I agree that these are the issues why we are talking about changes in the management of the port, we are not talking about how the port in question will develop. We are not talking about the substance, we are talking only about the issues on which there are amendments... All in all, the whole idea... What kind of people... who will place people in these posts, in these feeders. All these proposals are about this. On the other hand, the logical proposal, which is Mr Vucena's proposal that the state should cooperate with local authorities in development, business development and so on, is... That's so... not supported. The coalition will now vote against it. It is clear that people who apparently have no business in their own lives are voting against and that it is clear that 'no' can vote for people who have the highest achievement in their lives is the price of a member of the Saeima. People who understand something from how business develops, how business is helped, understand that it is not possible without mutual cooperation and interaction. That it's impossible... just own, don't know sisters, or what's there, or friends or classmates in post, there's no development. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Cielen: “Do you tell your experiences?” ) And finished. Mr. Eglish! Perhaps you are still before every question that you accept... And what, then, did you go so shyly once to bow down to another country? Maybe you're before every vote... You shoot every week... Get your instructions there, in that other country, as you should vote, Mr. Eglys. How do you vote? You can go for taxpayers' money. You get everything... There you can bow down in your servant's stature and then drive back and vote. Now, once a week, you're going to be accountable to your seniors. I thought... I think this is "right" state governance, and that is just what you need to do. By continuing in this way, it is absolutely clear that in February of next year there is a possibility - a very, very large chance - that Latvia will be on the grey list and our economy will clearly go down the next year, as I stand here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U204	I closed the debate. What is to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U205	Well, the proposal was pretty little here... It's not real what to comment on. Well, on Mr. Wucaan's side (interim: on behalf of the Commission!) ), - yes, on behalf of the Commission (interim: ‘Replace the rapporteur!’ ) I can say that the proposal was rejected, because there were actually concerns about whether this so-called development programme... or it doesn't cause, well, some potential... some kind of commitment in the future. And that is why it has been rejected by the Commission. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U206	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The motion put forward by Member Wuzan! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U207	Go on. Proposal No 3 is the proposal of Member Kučinski, which is in fact related to proposal No 1. There is no support in the Commission. ( The utterances: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U208	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Member Kučinska's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U209	4. - Mr. Wuzan's proposal. This is about pre-emption rights. Riga currently has pre-emption rights for the free port. Ventspils is not, and he does not want to be in Ventspils. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U210	Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U211	Yeah. Colleagues! I already refer to the substance of the proposal when we discussed at first reading. But, you know, this is where your proposal is now getting such an interesting wedding as Mr Gobzem said. At the moment it comes out (I will state the version that will now be approved if you vote): “The port authority of Riga and the Ventspils port area has the right to pre-emption to land and other real estate as a derived legal entity under public law to the Riga port authority and the Ventspils port authority.” This swivel “and” means that the Riga Port Authority can exercise the right of pre-emption to land in Ventspils and vice versa. If you had thought it, you were running! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U212	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U213	It is only that the Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U214	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - The motion put forward by Member Wuzan! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U215	5 and the motion of the Saeima Member, Krauze. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U216	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U217	Colleagues, the essence of Mr Krauze's proposal is not only to reduce the number of board members by removing the possibility for the municipality to delegate its representatives, but also to replace all national delegated representatives. Why such a proposal? If you say that there are high corruption risks in the Freeport of Ventspils and Riga, this means that at least one of the state delegated representatives has made regular decisions that are potentially at risk of corruption. So if you see it as the only solution at the moment and there is nothing else to do, how to try to remove the Freeport of Ventspils administration from the list of sanctions and how to mitigate the high corruption risks both in the Freeport of Ventspils and in the Freeport of Riga administration, then I think this is an adequate proposal, because it may indeed reduce these risks if they are identified.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U218	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U219	Latvian society, I want to draw your attention... What you'll have missed. Look! Now it's 17.41 and we decide how... The coalition decides how to place them in its own positions - in ports, in feeds. There are advisors here... from the Prime Minister's office, it's... and everything is going on very fast here. Then we will decide questions, once again. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Kursīte-Pakule: “On the proposal!” ) I can see that it will be presented again for those elections to the Riga City Council... where the reporter landed the fan - did not declare urgency and disrupted order. ( Interface: “On the proposal! ” ) There will be once again... will be submitted in, if? To be presented today. We will work until the night so that they can work quickly with the Riga City Council... quickly make now... And they... they're in office now. But when a doctor - then can't work, nothing! Then there's no time! Then there's no money! ( Intercretion: “He is also talking about posts! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U220	Talk to me about the proposal. Please address the specific proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U221	This proposal. Mrs. Moorier, when... Mrs. Moore, when Karin...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U222	Please address the specific proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U223	Mrs. Moore, when Karin talked about brake blocks... then you, as saltbox you are silent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U224	“Without one calendar week after the entry into force of this draft law, all the members of the board of the port of Riga and the Ventspils port and the Cabinet of Ministers shall appoint a new four-member board of the temporary board of the port of Riga and the Ventspils port, which shall act [...].”
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U225	I've read it.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U226	Then speak, please, about the specific proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U227	I'm talking about... Mrs. Moore, when Karin talks about brake blocks...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U228	I call for a specific proposal to be discussed.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U229	Mrs. Moore! Then when Karin talks about brake blocks, you were silent like a saltbox, if!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U230	I call for the proposal to be discussed!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U231	Be neutral! This is your task as Head of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U232	I call on the Member to speak on the specific proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U233	I am talking about posts. I am talking about this. Then when you have to share the posts for yourself, you can work until the night. Then you can talk until night! Work and everything... But when medical doctors have to raise salaries, then faster at home! Then faster home! That's how this coalition works. You're a craftsman, you're a supplement, your friends, you're a feeder... Let's take over the ports for our sponsors... and in that spirit. For the doctors - no! Then we have to wait a year. This topic is exhausted. Here we're going to play tonight because the coalition has felt... It's like animals that feel the taste of blood... They have felt the taste of blood that they will immediately be able to obtain the great hunt, the great plunder. Mr. Staķis is already happy to sit - he will immediately be the Riga City Council... mayor. He's ready to sit till morning. But when it comes to doctors, then Mr. Stakis's monks... With Dr. Flydi's getting out of the room. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Muižniece: “You need a doctor!” ) UKP also... the only ones who are able to stay in the hall. BIP as such a unsuccessful student... The JCP is unable to sit in their places, they are waiting for a call when they can go to sponsors. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “You’ve been called for a long time! Only you haven’t noticed it yet!” ) And Mr. Riekstin... Mr. Riekstin with his high school education... still... The only thing you can do is to yell as an orangutan from a place. It's the only thing that happens in this room. This is the case in the Saeima sittings. That's what happens! When it comes to doctors - I'll repeat for the fifth time because it's essential! - You don't decide, you don't decide. You only decide in the interests of your sponsors. And I have a silent suspicion that one of the sponsors you have is Meroni. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Stop, Aldi, use it, otherwise!” ; dep. A. Gobzem: “Do not worry about me! Get an education, then let’s talk!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U234	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. ( The drug is noise. Impressions. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U235	Dear colleagues,
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U236	Let me speak to a Member on the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U237	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind the Group on Development/About! that their colleague, the party colleague Viesturs Zeps, who is now also recognised as one of the shadows of corruption... how I understand working at the Freeport of Riga... according to the BIP... Today, the public programme Press Club has objected to this urgent reform, reminding that urgent reforms do not bring anything good and the capture of the Freeport of Riga is not correct for this story. And then it happens that... I don't know what's... Let us tell you what the price of the question is for you, my fellow Members, if that is where you need to defend your gambling again and that is Riga... your plan is more important to you than your colleague at the Freeport of Riga - but you are going today, of course, to the full bank - you can see it. And really, some idea of... for the doctors who today also expressed distrust in fact throughout the Cabinet of Ministers, and some concern about the fact that you are still rolling further, ignoring the laws, you no longer have. And that's why it's very interesting to see how you're on this road line all the time... You're making a mistake. And for our part we observe it and wish you to make mistakes even more often in your greed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U238	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U239	What I wanted to say in addition to the above. I understand why a coalition cannot decide on medical doctors here, but on their positions, why can you decide on a party cartel why they now want to set up their own cartel in ports. The answer is very simple. Our Member, Sandis Riekstins, has already been punished for participating in the cartel, and he has experience in building the cartels. Now he and his other associates want to transfer this experience to ports as well. That is what we are dealing with. And that is why we are sitting tonight in order to be able to set up our own cartel in ports. Mr. Riekstins, you were punished for taking part in cartels by a decision of the Competition Council... You could come here in front, and tell the general public how... How it works. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “I cannot be punished as a natural person! Are you really a lawyer?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ But I understand. I understand that none of the UKP will be here because Juta Strike has banned it even for Sandy Riekstin, who seems to be a brave man, but he must not climb here if Juta Strike does not allow him to do so. It's over. Dear Society! I invite you to see that the Saeima is now in a long-term... what is being done - you are simply brutally stealing your funds, your pensions, your wages and everything else to meet these people... these people and their sponsors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U240	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U241	No, no. In this case, too, proposal 5 has simply not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U242	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Member Krauze's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 32, it's against - 51, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U243	6. is the proposal of Member Kučinska. Well, actually, related to his previous proposals, not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U244	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Member Kučinska's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U245	Okay. And seven. - the last proposal - is a proposal from the Legal Office, which, in fact, clarifies and determines the entry into force of this... So different deadlines when the rules enter into force... until what the Cabinet of Ministers has to do and so forth. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U246	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U247	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I invite you to support the draft law on "Amendments to the Ports Act" (No. 515/Lp13) for the second final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U248	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on the second, final, reading of the Ports Act! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 52, it's against 22, it's not. The law is passed. Honourable Members! There are proposals for changes to the agenda of the sitting. The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs asks that item 33 of the agenda be moved before item 11 of the agenda ‘Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance’. Do Members have objections? (Laughter) (See paragraph 4.5 of this Regulation.) Do Members have objections? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) Members... Or... Is that so? If a Member objects, please make it known. There is therefore no objection. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Stepanenko: “There is! I said it was!” ) So Commissioner Stepanenko has reservations. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko's intermediate call.) Please call me! We will vote for the transfer of agenda item 33 Amendments to the law on maternity and sickness insurance before agenda item 11! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The Social and Labour Commission asks that item 32 of the agenda be moved before item 11 of the agenda ‘Amendments to the Act on Unemployment Insurance’. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission requests that item 12 ‘Amendment to the Law on Administrative Responsibility’ be moved after item 31 of the agenda. ( Internouncing call.) So, Mr. Gobzem will speak 'no' or 'for'? ( Internouncing call.) Mr Aldis Gobzems has applied to speak against him.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U249	So that the public can understand why we are moving the agenda so... in this way. Because the coalition... where it landed the fan and did not ask for urgency, it has not been able to prepare the new one... the new draft law. ( Milestones.) They need time to get off. Therefore, they are now changing the agenda in a slow spirit to get time. ( Internouncing call.) That's it, company! That's what happens in the Saeima! Just not looking at one... in turn, but in order to get time, we will change our agenda, and we are now writing... Already flying the Snake with those pages to be able to submit them all... Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U250	Please call me! To be put to the vote on agenda item 12 (Amendment to the Law on Administrative Responsibility) after item 31 on the agenda! Please vote mode! Please get the result! ( Interface: ‘ Schemers! ’) ) No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Elections of City Council and District Council of the Republic”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission – Member Dace Bluķe.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U251	The National Administration and Municipal Commission has examined the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Elections of City Council and District Council of the Republic”. The Commission of State Administration and Municipalities shall request that the said draft law be declared urgent. ( From the Group's point of view: "Better at first reading!" ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U252	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Elections of City Council and District Council of the Republic” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 45, it's against - 31, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U253	The draft law provides for Article 1 to be reworded. The wording of the article has been supplemented by paragraphs that, in cases where the municipal council has been dismissed in accordance with the procedure laid down by laws, the new elections shall be elected for the following terms: if more than 24 months have been left until the current elections, then the remaining term of office of the dismissed council shall be elected; the remaining term of office of the dismissed council and the period specified in the first paragraph of Article 1 of this Law, if 9-24 months have remained until the current elections. However, if the Council has been dissolved and there are less than 9 months left until the current elections, the temporary administration is in operation. The law shall enter into force on the day following its publication.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U254	Colleagues! Before we start the debate, Members of the House, Mr Pavļuts, Mr Bluke, Mr Skride, Ms Steel and Mr Staķe ask for the Saeima to continue the sitting without interruption until the agenda item 11 is examined. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Please call us! Let us vote for the parliamentary sitting to continue without interruption until the agenda item 11 has been discussed! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. And now we are starting a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U255	Hello, colleagues! If someone has not yet understood - it is the second draft law from the same legislative package, from which is accompanied by the future decision on the dismissal of Riga City Council. And because we already know what happens when a bill is urgently written to correct the mistakes made by Members of the position today, I will not tell you anything more and I will call on the taboos, such as Mr Pucena, Mr Pavlut, to explain what arguments they had when preparing that bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U256	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U257	I call on you to vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U258	First reading:
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U259	First reading:
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U260	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Elections of City Council and District Council of the Republic” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 46, it's 29, it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U261	The Commission decided to set a deadline of one day for the submission of proposals. ( Interface: “Can’t do it! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U262	And consideration of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U263	And consideration by the Saeima at its meeting on 19 December. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U264	Please turn on the microphone for Eric Pucen.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U265	I would encourage the deadline for the submission of proposals at 12.00 on 16 December. ( Interface: “It’s very right! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U266	December 16 at 12 noon. And consideration of the Saeima sitting? 19, huh? December 19th Is there another proposal? This means that we are voting on the next proposal at 12 noon on 16 December. Please call me! We will vote in favour of setting the deadline for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Elections of City Council and District Council of the Republic” at 12:00 on 16 December. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals - at 12.00 on 16 December this year, consideration at the sitting of the Saeima - on 19 December this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Administrative Liability”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U267	Dear colleagues, For the second reading, the Legal Commission has examined the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Administrative Liability”. The draft law provides that the Law on Administrative Responsibility shall enter into force on 1 July 2020 and not on 1 January 2020, as the law adopted provided for it. No proposal was received for the second reading. During discussions of the sittings of the Legal Commission it was stressed that the entry into force of the law is not permitted later than July 1, 2020. The representative of the Ministry of Justice at the meeting of the Commission explained that the Cabinet of Ministers has decided that all ministries of the sectors must submit for consideration the missing draft laws on the codification of administrative infringements of sectors in the Cabinet of Ministers by 31 January 2020 or inform the Ministry of Justice if regulation of administrative liability is not necessary. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U268	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on "Amendment to the Law on Administrative Responsibility" at second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Ieva Krapāne.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U269	The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs examined draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance”. A total of 21 proposals have been received. 1. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U270	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U271	2. - a proposal from the Group of the National Alliance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U272	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U273	3. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U274	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U275	4. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U276	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U277	5. - a proposal from the Group of the National Alliance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U278	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U279	6. - a proposal from the Group of the National Alliance. Partly supported and included 7. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U280	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U281	7. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U282	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U283	8 / 8 - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U284	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U285	9. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U286	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U287	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U288	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U289	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U290	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U291	12. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U292	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U293	13. - the proposal from Minister for Welfare Ramon Petravič. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U294	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U295	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U296	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U297	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from Minister for Welfare Ramon Petravič. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U298	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U299	16. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U300	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U301	17. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported and included 19. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U302	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U303	18. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported and included 19. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U304	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U305	19. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U306	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U307	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U308	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U309	And 21. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U310	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U311	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law amending the law on maternity and sickness insurance at second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U312	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance” at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The law is passed. Honourable Members! Changes to the agenda of the sitting have been tabled. Members Pavļuts, Pless, Bluķe, Šeins and Skride are asked to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Municipalities” (No. 516/Lp13) and put it before item 11. ( Internouncing call.) Please turn on the microphone for Gundar Many.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U313	President of the Saeima. This tabled draft law on behalf of the name is in line with the draft law just adopted by the Saeima at first reading. There's no difference in comma. And so we cannot see two identical draft laws under the order of the Saeima. May the Legal Office perhaps say that it really is!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U314	The Legal Bureau acknowledges that it can, as the previous draft law was supported. That is the opinion of the Legal Bureau. Please turn on the microphone for Arthur Pleasure. ( Interface: “On transfer. ”) ) That is the opinion of the Legal Office at present. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa: “What are you talking about?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, “ Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendment to Law “On Municipalities”” (No. 516/Lp13) including (Dep. J. Urbanovich: “Who is the Legal Bureau?” )... Did Members want to talk about the procedure? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Urbanovič: “May the Legal Bureau chair the sitting?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ Noise is on the grass. Imposition: “We have already voted for this!” ) Please turn on the microphone for Member Zariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U315	Yes, I would like to receive clarification from the Legal Bureau on the procedure. In what respect will the Saeima once again vote precisely in favour of what it has already voted on? ( Internouncing call.) It was just! That's it! Just please ask the Legal Office for clarification. It is completely absurd, we have already voted for it. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U316	Colleagues! Legal Bureau opinion: we can vote on the amendments on the agenda of the sitting. ( Interface: “On procedure! ”) ) Turn on the microphone for Aldis Gobzems!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U317	I'm sorry, there's no opinion from the Legal Bureau. At least Members have not seen this. I would like to see such an opinion. If there is no such opinion, please show it to all Members of the Saeima, please by the Speaker of the Saeima!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U318	It is an oral opinion of the Head of the Legal Bureau (Interview.) which we can now vote on. Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendment to Law “On Municipalities”” (No. 516/Lp13) placed on the agenda of the Saeima sitting before item 11! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft legislation shall be included on the agenda of the sitting. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Agešins: “There is nothing clear about it!” ) On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Unemployment Insurance”, second reading. ( Internouncing call.) The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Ieva Krapāne.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U319	The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs examined the draft law (Interreferences.) ‘Amendments to the Act on Unemployment Insurance’. ( Milestones.) Three proposals have been received. 1. - Andrey Klementyev's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U320	Are Members in favour? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Support. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Gobzems: “We do not support anything that this Saeima decides!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U321	2. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U322	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U323	And 3. - Andrey Klementyev's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U324	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U325	On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, please support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U326	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Unemployment Insurance” at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. ( Milestones.) Reports by the Bureau on draft legislative acts submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Municipalities” presented by Member Pavļuta, Plesa, Bluke, Stein and Skride (No. 516/Lp13) to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible. Mr. Gobzem, will you speak 'no'? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Gobzem: “I will speak against” yes. ) Aldis Gobzems, a Member, has applied to speak against. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U327	It is very strange to speak against a law that has already been voted on... That's it. The Saeima has already voted in favour of this law. Name. But to the coalition... Thank you, coalition. What you'll get in front of this here because... I promise you that you'll get the same... 100 equal billboards and you'll be sitting as loved ones every Thursday until night! (Applause) Every Thursday! (Applause) 100 equal! With the same text! What you're doing now... at the forefront. Such a person wanted to be a mayor of Riga! ( Milestones.) How can it be... How can there be people who violate the law here in Parliament every week?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Every week! We are now looking at the draft law that we have all debated (Internext.) Name, name... I have already voted. Again! Come on, come on. Even the comma you couldn't take out! Change it! Change one word or something else. I think that Latvian Parliament has not experienced such legal nihilistism in different times, even in Soviet times no! ( Milestones.) Even in Soviet times, it has not been the way it is today. And who allows it? This is permitted by the greatest preachers of the rule of law. European... all European globalists and all of them (Interface.) ... Meanwhile, Mr. Staķis is still sitting and smiling and already dreaming that he will be the Mayor of Riga. (Laughter) But, Mr. Stakis, you should remember that I can still stand. And then your chances will fall very much. It will be very smaller if I can stand for the Riga City Council. ( Insight: “Do not take away the voice ”!) ) Dear Latvian society! I am calling you very much (The Interface from the Group SAVES: “Unlock the Saeima!” )... I am calling you very much: Sign up for the dismissal of the Saeima. Well, it's not an adequate, educated person who wants to work for Latvia, who wants to adopt laws in the normal country, rather than looking at their unlawful actions... Dear Latvian society! If you want to live in a rich country, why do you accept it? Why do you believe in years, decades and decades? You believe that they're about to put everything together, that everything's going to be very beautiful right away. So the truth of life is very harsh: right away we'll be on the grey list (interface). - There's going to be a country right now... In principle, there is now a siege of state power and a coup d'état. You'll see your new people again in office, and you'll have no wages, as you'll be told next year that there's no money, because you'll probably need a Feldman's sister's salary supplement or someone else to go somewhere. To America - Mr Eglitis once a week, for example. He's happy. They don't want to be in Latvia, they want to be in other countries, they don't want to solve the problems of this country, the problems of our country, they just want to go on political tourism trips, more often to drive our country. Our country is in a stacho. I don't even talk about specific people, I don't care what particular people... But to close a whole city hard... How, then, should our country be hated to make a whole city hard?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, How should our country be hated in order to make and present an absurd bill in the Saeima?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mr. Pavilut, as if you have higher education, you know... You know, everything you know. (Laughter) But the draft law... at least one word differently... You can't write. ( Milestones.) But the truth is, you're... Neither did you know this paragraph of the law... that you need a little different. Just as your rapporteur did not know that the matter of urgency should be brought before the debate and not after the debate. And that's why you have to fix this fan in some way today. ( Insight: ‘ Poorly prepared! ’) (See paragraph 4.5 of this Regulation.) I very much hope... I very much hope that in the next Saeima there will be no people with secondary education or who are acting against the interests of the Latvian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U328	“Dace Bluķe, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U329	Honourable Members! This submitted draft law is a corrigendum to an error. Yes, I admit that my seed happened to mix the lines of the places and read... That is why we are giving this draft law once again, because it is urgent, very important and essential. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U330	Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendment to Law “On Municipalities”” (No. 516/Lp13) transfer to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 45, it's 30, it's not. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Address”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans. ( The transcripts are: ‘ Let’s go! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U331	The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined and prepared for consideration at the second, final sitting of the Saeima on the urgent draft recognised law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Address”. Three proposals were received for the second reading. Proposal 1 is the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Jānis Butāns, which provides for the exclusion of Article 1 of the draft law, which is related to the need for additional discussions and assessment of safety risks on whether unqualified authentication with access to the official electronic address is permitted. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U332	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U333	2. - a proposal submitted by the Legal Office adjusting the date in paragraph 2 of the transitional provisions. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U334	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U335	3. is a proposal submitted by the Legal Office which clarifies in editorial terms paragraph 3 of the transitional provisions. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U336	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U337	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U338	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Addresses” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for a break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name for the statement to Member Inga Goldberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U339	Members of the Commission of State Administration and Local Government! Extraordinary meeting of the Commission - after five minutes at the Commission's premises.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U340	Name for Maria Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, to report on the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U341	Not registered: Raimonds Bergmanis, Boriss Cilevičs, Jānis Dombrava, Aivars Geidāns, Artuss Kaimiņš, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Rihards Kols, Armands Krauze, Ainars Latkovskis, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Ramona Petraviča, Ivans Ribakovs, Lubova Švecova and Viktors Valainis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U342	Interruption until 18.50. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U343	Colleagues! Technical break until 7 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U344	Dear colleagues, We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - examination of a request from Members. The request made by Members. We have received the Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Armands Krauze, Ulda Augulis, Jānis Vucanas, Gundars Dūks, Jānis Dūklava, Alda Gobzema, Karina Sprūde, Didžas Šmita, Jūlia Stepanenko and Jānis Adamson's request to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš about the measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Latvia to abolish the established sanctions against Ventspils Freeport Authority under the supervision of the Cabinet of Ministers of the United States of America. On behalf of the applicants - Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Name for motivation.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U345	Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! We have prepared a request from Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš regarding the situation in the context of sanctions. We see today that there is in fact one small, cosmetic repair of a port management format from the government, with the members of the municipal board being removed from the port management. But it is clear (and this is also largely acknowledged today by the Minister of Transport... Mr. Minister, this alone will not be enough to remove the Freeport of Ventspils administration from the list of sanctions. We understand that every day on the sanctions list is detrimental to both the business community and the image of the state as a whole. And that is why we ask the government to immediately prepare and submit to the Saeima a plan of measures and a timetable for that, so that we can see exactly what the government intends to do in order to remove the Freeport of Ventspils administration from the list of sanctions as soon as possible. Next thing. As today, amendments to the law are also being directed as a matter of urgency, i.e. amendments to the law on ports, including a new management procedure in the administration of the Freeport of Riga... And, as has already been pointed out in extensive discussions here, we are absolutely convinced that this will have a negative impact on the operation of the port of Riga. It will also have a negative impact on the possibilities of moving at least part of the cargo from the Freeport of Ventspils towards Riga. We ask the government for an accurate analysis of how such a decision, I think... In our opinion, the common Latvian economy and transit sector – especially – can be affected in a short, hasty, bad time. This is a request made by Members. I call on you to support this too.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U346	The request shall be submitted to the Requesting Commission. Examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child” (No. 98/Lp13), third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Mr Andrejs Judine, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U347	Dear colleagues, Third reading draft law on amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child (No. 98/Lp13). We received 18 proposals and partly supported them, but there are also proposals (you will see) that were not supported. But please note that the third reading was accompanied by proposals to lay down the responsibility for the operation of energy drinks, with the storage of tobacco products... We pointed out in particular at the Commission meeting that responsibility for new infringements should not be included at third reading. So we decided to do this. We distributed these proposals in a new draft law, and today's agenda also includes a draft law on the Protection of Children's Rights (No. 510/Lp13) for which we will then be able to... Well, not today, maybe next week's debate. But today... The commission supported... to this sitting, we supported proposals relating to codification, well, and some others then... other drafting proposals. So there are 18 proposals. The first proposal is formulated by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs and is a proposal developed at the initiative of the Ministry of Welfare to provide the legal basis for the development of the information system (adoption register) within the framework of the European Regional Development Fund project "Deinstitutionalisation Process Support System (Stage 1)". The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U348	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U349	2. - the proposal of the Minister for Health, Mr Viņķele, which made it clear that tobacco products, electronic smoking devices, alcoholic beverages and energy drinks should not be stored. As I said, we decided to continue working on this proposal in another legislative proposal, to examine in three readings, to evaluate everything. Consequently, this draft law does not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U350	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U351	3. - The proposal by the Legal Office (as well as other proposals by the Legal Office) is editorial. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U352	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U353	We now have a number of proposals from Member Wittenberg concerning energy drinks. As I have already said, overall we support conceptually, but let us consider another draft law. Proposal 4 has been rejected. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U354	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U355	Proposal 5 has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U356	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U357	Proposal 6 has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U358	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U359	7. - the proposal by the Minister for Health, Viņķelis, which lays down responsibility for the child's storage of alcoholic beverages. Not supported. Let's work on it in another bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U360	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U361	8 / 8 - responsibility for the storage of tobacco products. Neither is it supported. Let us consider another draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U362	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U363	9. - a proposal from the Minister for Health. Neither was it supported. Let us continue to work on another draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U364	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U365	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Wittenberg's proposal. Not supported. Let's work on another bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U366	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U367	11. - Member Wittenberg's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U368	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U369	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U370	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U371	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. That too is editorial. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U372	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U373	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U374	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U375	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau specifying the time of entry into force of amendments to the law. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U376	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U377	16. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare, Mr Lipshan. Partially supported, including 17. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U378	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U379	Okay. Proposal No 17 was made by a commission. It is supported and provides that the Cabinet of Ministers issues the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers provided for in Section 31(4) of the Law on Children until 30 June 2020. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U380	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U381	And the last one is 18. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U382	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U383	Colleagues! Please support the draft law at third reading!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U384	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child” (No. 98/Lp13) in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Detection”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ivan Klementjev.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U385	Good evening, honourable colleagues! We are working on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Detection” (No. 457/Lp13) at third reading. The Commission has examined this draft law. Unfortunately, no proposals have been made. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U386	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Detection” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U387	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U388	Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments’, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U389	Dear colleagues, Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments’. The Commission received 10 proposals for a third reading. 1. - the proposal made by Member Gats Eglitis, which provides that the public offer made by the issuer for transferable securities issued by it shall not be considered an investment service (under the conditions laid down). The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U390	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U391	Good evening! Latvian laws and regulations provide for the possibility to establish not only limited liability companies or SIA, but also public limited liability companies. We know a lot about SIA, but about stock companies - not so much. Among the entrepreneurs, stock companies are not the most popular choice. Why? Could one of the reasons be that they need at least EUR 35 000 of capital? Yes, a public limited liability company cannot be registered with one euro share capital, as is the case with SIA. If a public limited liability company wants to raise its finances from investors, it must become a public limited liability company. This means that issued securities are to be sold on a stock exchange. It imposes obligations - requires the registration of a prospectus and regular disclosure of financial information. All this is aimed at protecting the interests of investors, and the Financial and Capital Market Commission should ensure supervision. If the aim is to create more momentum in the capital market - and this is a justified wish - then a better solution would be to stimulate the creation of public limited liability companies. However, this proposal does not contribute to the long-term development of the capital market. The proposal provides for the authorisation of small and medium-sized enterprises to issue securities that are not intended to be quoted on a stock exchange. I am in favour of development, and I am concerned about one point: on what will this development take place at the expense of? If we measure the risks arising from the proposal, we see that it opens up opportunities for each SIA to raise funds publicly without any regulations, without informing the investor about the risks or about the financial indicators, plans and other conditions of the company that would allow investors to assess both the reputation, profitability and the validity of their price. This, in essence, allows financial resources to be attracted by the successful sale of dreams. And who doesn't want to believe in promises? In the short period of time, become standing rich, because that will be the promise of a master seller when trading securities issued by SIA. Neither the issuer nor the national supervisory authorities will be obliged to even warn citizens about what individual economic operators are offering. ‘ The Bank of the Baltics’ - the first example that comes to mind. Promised high interest on deposits. And what was the result? A large number of people who lost their savings... and not only savings but also confidence in the banking sector as such. This is, by analogy, a possible scenario: not only to lose our savings but also to lose faith in the capital market. Experience shows that with good intentions the road is paved to hell. I am in favour of a simplified approach, but not at the expense of investors. I believe that the applicant has the most ambitious development-oriented objectives. However, the risks are too high in the long term. The proposal is also conceptual, but this is the third reading of the draft law. Conceptual changes must not be natural unless there is an emergency. And there's no such thing at this moment. The proposal should therefore be pragmatic and well thought out and discussed with all the parties involved. Yes, it takes time, and I agree that action should be faster and possibly more decisive. However, this is not just about one person, but about all the inhabitants of Latvia. It is our responsibility to make balanced decisions that contribute to long-term development. Therefore, I would ask you to assess and be inclined to defend the interests of investors. Especially those who believe that money is growing in trees. I call on you not to support this and the other proposals made by Mr Gata Eglitis, a Member of the New Conservative Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U392	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U393	Yeah. So, as I said, this proposal has been supported by the Commission. ( The utterances are: ‘ Let’s vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U394	Mrs Benhen, I am sorry, have you asked for support or not? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Benhen-Beeken: “... not to support!’ ) Not supported. Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - MEP Eglitis's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 45, it's against - 34, it's abstaining - it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U395	Proposal No 2 is, therefore, a proposal by Member Gata Eglitis that the exemption from the obligation to draw up a prospectus applies not only to public offers expressed in one Member State - Latvia - thus providing for lower limits in the wording of the rules. This proposal is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U396	And Members have also asked for a vote on this if? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of 2. - MEP Eglitis's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 45, it's against - 34, it's abstaining - it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U397	Proposal No 3 is the proposal of Member Gata Eglišs that the provision on exemption from the obligation to draw up a prospectus include a reference to Regulation No. Article 25 of 2017/1129, thus bringing the wording of the article closer to the prospectus... the text of the Regulation. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U398	But Members have asked for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - MEP Eglitis's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 45, against - 33, abstaining - not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U399	4. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Explanation of the terminology. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U400	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U401	5. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. A specified provision, in agreement with the current wording of the article. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U402	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U403	6. - the proposal by the Minister of Finance Mr. Jānis Reirs, which clarifies the provision in line with the current wording of the article. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U404	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U405	7. - a proposal by the Minister of Finance Mr. John Reira, which provides for an opportunity for each person to report to the Commission on the infringements referred to in the Article. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U406	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U407	8 / 8 - the proposal by the Minister for Finance Mr. Johns Reirs, which provided a editorial clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U408	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U409	9. - the proposal by the Minister of Finance Mr. Jānis Reirs, who made a drafting of the nature of the text. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U410	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U411	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission extending the period specified in the transitional provisions for compliance with the requirements of the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U412	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U413	I call on Members to support the third, final reading of the draft law on the market in financial instruments.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U414	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, final reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 75, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Honourable Members! The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government requests that changes be made to the agenda of the sitting and include in it the draft law “Amendment to Law “On Local Government”” (No. 516/Lp13) (Dep. V. Agešins: “It was today!” ) following item 15 of the agenda. Do Members have objections? ( The transcripts are: “Yes! Yes!’ ) Please call us! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Local Government” to be included on the agenda of the sitting (No. After item 15 of the agenda: 516/Lp13 Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft legislation shall be included on the agenda of the sitting. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to Law “On Municipalities”” (No. 516/Lp13), first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission – Member Dace Bluķe.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U415	Good afternoon, Members! “ Good evening! ” ) The Commission of Public Administration and Local Government discussed amendments to the Law “On Local Government”. The law firm admitted that according to the Rules of Procedure... As such a draft law has already been approved at first reading, there are no obstacles to the re-submission of such draft laws, the content of which has been discussed in substance. The Commission calls for the draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U416	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Local Government” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 45, it's 30, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U417	Go on. I invite you to vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Municipalities” at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U418	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Daniel Pavilut.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U419	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, First of all, I would like to take the opportunity to thank all those involved who have helped us correct the error that we... was allowed to work on a previous version of the procedure with identical content. Just a few explanatory words about why it is possible to see an identical bill. As the Legal Bureau explained to us at the meeting of the Commission, if the draft law at first reading is supported and not rejected, there are no obstacles to seeing it again in a similar look. If it had been rejected, there would have been a different situation. Colleagues! I would like to take this opportunity to respond to some of the questions or remarks that came from this troupe when we looked at the same draft law, and today, at first reading, we also discussed this issue, about amendments to the municipal law. Colleagues Dolgopolov expressed an opinion that I would like to note. I would like to emphasise, in particular, that Mr Dolgopolov agreed, in my opinion, with this tribunal - so I heard it - that a system that is currently provided for in municipal law and municipal electoral law - the second related law - is to be discussed with respect to administrators... is problematic, is debatable. That is exactly what we are doing here, colleagues, if. We have every right, we even have a duty, especially now, to know that there is a real probability that extraordinary elections can take place in Riga municipality, but to create the conditions for the election of full Members, representatives of society through the election mechanism and not administrators. Collegeman Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis insisted on whether or not these amendments to the law were related to Riga, as well as possible extraordinary elections of Riga City Council. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Agešins: “No, no!” ) Colleagues, it would now be simply illogical, especially now, in a situation where we know that a draft law prepared by the National Chancellery has been submitted to the VARAM... They are no longer rumors; they are not predictions of Mr. Gobzem. There is a specific draft law submitted to the State Chancellery on the dismissal of Riga City Council. We know that these amendments that we propose are related to the procedure for the election of municipalities, the procedure for the election of all municipalities in the Republic of Latvia. In all cases, if there were a situation that happened... the municipal council shall be dissolved and extraordinary elections shall take place. So, of course, it has to do with Riga. Of course, we create conditions and environment in which we also have to take care of the residents of Riga municipality. I would like to highlight once again the comment that I already made to Regina Ločmele before... Mrs Ločmele-Lunova, that is, more criticism today of the procedure, of the intentions of the applicants rather than of the content, rather than of the 15 months being good or not; whether or not it is necessary to correct it. We think we need it. Are nine months enough for administrators? Six years? And so on. Most of our colleagues, at least from SAVE, say these comments on the form. Finally, Mrs Ločmele-Lunova commented on... on constitutionality and mentioned judgements and predictability of the Constitutional Court. Colleagues, for the first time in the history of Latvia's new times, is a situation where we actually work with the question that there could be dismissal of Riga City Council and extraordinary elections. That is, in a way, an emergency. Like us here in the Saeima, we have already decided twice to support the government's declared emergency in relation to the waste crisis in Riga. There is an emergency. The law has been violated... Again... In the Riga City Council. Such a draft decision is approaching, and we must work with the problems that exist on the public agenda as well as on the Riga agenda. I think that we are working in a clear and predictable manner. We are debating these draft laws, and in this case we are not working on the regular elections, which I think was the case with the judgment of the Constitutional Court mentioned above, but extraordinary. So we are talking about the nature of the emergency. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzems: “You’re always breaking the procedure! All the time!” ) And finally. I would perhaps like to ask a rhetorical question in some way. If we are asked, “What is Development/About!” ... is there any reason for the coalition leaders, the original applicant, to present such amendments at the moment?’ Colleagues, I could ask myself as well: “What are parties, for example... WOMAN'S motive, objecting and... By objecting to urgency, by delaying the examination of this draft law by objecting to its content?” Maybe it's just as good... I could let you... is related to the unwillingness to admit that violations have occurred systematically and for a long time in the municipality of Riga, the law has been violated, why the dismissal of Riga City Council is also encouraged. There are countless scandals in procurement, corruption... corruption allegations related to the purchase of buses and minibuses, Daimler case, nano-water, Riga Water, Riga Tourism Development Office (Dep. A. Gobzem: “The Cinema “Pionieris”!” ) and related investigations and many, many other situations. Are the same about 70 people, who have been employed for several years as consultants, falsifyingly employed in various Riga City Council companies... Overall, according to Re:Baltica researchers, it has cost Riga taxpayers at least EUR 3.7 million. Perhaps that is why we hear these objections, both on the form and on the content of these amendments to the law. Thank you. Please give your support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U420	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. ( Independence: “For the first time! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U421	We are in such a completely strange situation right now. And I'm here to remember my first trip to the United States. ( Interface: “You also were! ” ) Yes, I was there, I was invited, yes. When we were flying, on the way... When we were flying, on the way... There, you know, on planes... Well, for those who have not been flying to the United States, I can tell you that there are all kinds of movies on the way. ( Internouncing call.) And then there was a movie -- at that time, a film that was not yet known... It just appeared, we hadn't seen it with us. I think it wasn't on the screen yet. It's called Forest Gamps. I think many of you have seen it. Beautiful, really interesting movie. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “Speak! ” ) Although I hadn’t thought... I didn't mean to do it, because it was really interesting. And the main hero... to those who don't know, their fellow people thought, let's say so, stupid. And not without reason, I have to say. (Laughter) But... And there, in that story, was... But he had a lot of valuable lessons, even to him. And one of his findings was that... He said: “When I see a man walking with tusks... “ Smurfs are something that men wear so that their pants don’t fall off. ‘ If I see a man who walks with both twigs and belts, then I think he's not really normal.” And that's about what we're doing here. That is - we have adopted one bill, we have supported it at first reading. And now we put it on the agenda again. And let us look again and confirm again. Well, it's about like that man with those pussies and... And with that buckle... and that's the belt, he needs two of these things at the same time. And indeed, I have not received an answer as to why urgency is needed. With foam on our lips, we are trying to say that there is a waste crisis in Riga. Well, I don't know where you've seen him. Maybe come and tell me how she gets into this waste crisis. What's so urgent? Rats are already flying on the street? We have an ecological disaster? Well, these stories about the waste crisis in Riga - it's about like a scientific conference about whether there's life on Mars. And the Marsians are trying to say that there is, but no one believes. And about this crisis. The Riga City Council comes and shows that there is no crisis, everything is fine, the municipality performs its functions, but for some reason someone has figured out that there is a crisis in Riga and this municipality must be released urgently. I would very much like you to come and tell me where it is justified. Because otherwise... Otherwise you will... And you are also telling - well, the law is not fulfilled. I am sorry, but then you apply it to yourself. And then, I hope... And that's what I'm already having when we were debating... already when we were last... Even when we adopted the draft law at first reading, I called on you: if all this is not hypocritical on your part, then exactly the same approach as you now have in relation to the Riga City Council... We'll be referring to the Saeima. So, first of all, here we also say that if the Saeima is released, then when there is less than half the term left, then we also elect the next Saeima for this remaining period and for the next term. And also... in the same case as... With regard to the Riga City Council, if the Riga City Council has not complied with the law, then she must be released. Now we apply exactly the same for the Saeima, for ourselves! If you have not done the law, then such a Saeima must be released, and it is obvious. Otherwise you simply continue to laugh at this principle, which stands written on the wall of your government: “One law is one justice for all.” And it's very good that society sees it today. I call on you to follow it and make your choice - society goes and signs up for the dismissal of this Saeima! The sooner this happens, the sooner we will save our country from simply a disaster. Thank you. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U422	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U423	Indeed, how pleasant it was to understand from Mr Pavļuta that he is listening to what is happening during the debate! Only a small problem is that listening does not mean listening. I understand that the day is long, difficult, and the debate is not simple either. I would like to say, repeat what I have just said when we talked about the first version. And, by the way, this is where Zariņš is absolutely right. There will be some problems, because to discuss the two draft laws... the same content and meaning at the same time - it simply complicates all its procedures and actions. One point. I am talking about the fact that the appointment of an administrator is neither a democratic nor the right solution... I repeat the same thing. That's right. It is something else that we allow situations - and there is the main problem here - to be appointed as their administrator, and we are trying to make this requirement into law rather than to assess an individual emergency situation on a case-by-case basis. By the way, a striking example of this was the debate on port cases, where we also tried to generalise and extend all our solutions to everyone by analysing a particular case. It is therefore necessary to assess on a case-by-case basis. So all the mechanisms and everything else associated with dismissal, whether it's Riga or Gulbene or any other municipality... In this case, a separate law, as by the way, is also required by law. And each individual law must provide for mechanisms to eliminate this emerging situation. That's the point one. Two points. Talking about those finished violations that are... Now really don't see the logs in your eye and see the straws (and not just the straws), but also the logs in the eyes of others - it's not particularly honest. For, to be honest, if we were to now start counting everything that could be blamed on the government for failings - on guarantees, on credit guarantees - on other failings, starting with OIC, and on other things, I think that the list would be much longer than the Riga City Council. Do not defend Riga's idea - I want to say it again - do not defend it! - I'm talking about principles. And when I'm talking about improving the electoral system... we are also looking today at the same question as the Central Electoral Commission, that there really is a need to improve electoral systems... the election mechanism and the electoral process. That's what this is about. That it is incomplete is clear. What routes can be chosen there, which has been the subject of debate for years. We also need to add a point once and say, "Yes, we really want to improve this system." Three points. I said that today. I saw pickets, I saw demonstrations at the Saeima door. I heard a request for the Saeima to be fired... from doctors, from municipal employees... not from Riga, by the way, but from regions. That's what I heard. I didn't see any pickets... Rigas... where Riga residents would be asked to intervene immediately in the work of the municipality and immediately dismiss the Riga City Council. That's what I've never heard. Let's be objective! And here... In this case, if we are really talking about legislative processes, then they must be really balanced and justified, so that, by the way, we are required of us by the solemn promise that each of us not only read from this tribunal, but has also signed that we will work for the best consciousness - to which I also call. That's what this is about. For the best consciousness, for better solutions, for professionalism, not for such a voluntary approach... I don't know who it's dictated and who calls it... or the taste of revenge, or something else. I am talking about common sense or common sense if it is not possible to give that common sense - common sense. Thank you. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U424	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U425	Dear colleagues, I would like to thank Daniel Pavilus for his courage in finally acknowledging... If you need to take a picture, maybe I'm not gonna... finally admit that all draft laws submitted to them still have some connection with Riga. That's... Unlike what I heard on Tuesday... On Wednesday, I'm sorry, when Daniels Pavluts said that this draft law is exhaustive and true, where there is no word about the dismissal of Riga City Council. Now it's finally for the sake of Riga. According to your words, all this is explained by the care for the welfare of the Rigans, but... But are you, Development/About! , are you not an interested party in everything that concerns political representation or power in Riga? More recently, Riga City Council elections were held. Or Development/About! He did not stand up for that election? Someone has actually been the main Development/About! a slogan? ‘ Let's go, Nile!” That was what? Yeah... Mr Bondar, Juris Puce and so on. ‘ Let's... “ [Independence] Are you there, Mr. Bondar? Where are you? Why aren't you in Riga? Why don't you work for Rigans, as you promised them during the pre-elections? That's why... wish you failed. The Rigaers have made their own choice. Okay, you don't like that choice. But they have made their own choice. Go on. For you, Development/About! , there were several options, also today there are options. For as far as I am aware of the political picture of Riga, the so-called four-man, who is the former four of the population of Saskaņa, openly said to you: “Please create the new Riga City Council with you!” You had at least two or three times the opportunity to create a ruling coalition in Riga, to take over there. What makes it difficult for you to do so? You have chosen not to. So if you... You are all on democracy, and you have been told several times in the bill of law annotated how important it is for power to belong to a nation that must be legitimized... to the people... and so on. But if this is the case, why don't you give the opportunity to Riga residents to make their own decision about the dismissal of Riga City Council? Collect signatures, amend the law on municipal referendums! If necessary, start collecting signatures! And then perhaps - perhaps! - you will be able to reach a referendum in a fully democratic way. Well, and then the Riga residents will make a decision - whether they want to dismiss the Riga City Council or whether they do not want to dismiss the Riga City Council. Go on. You're talking about an emergency here. Let’s read the law “On Emergency and Exceptional Status” once again! Paragraph 1 itself sets out the purpose of this Law. This is about situations where there is a threat to national security. Are you saying that the area of waste is now a threat to national security? Are you serious about that? Let’s go. ( K. Feldman's intermediate call.) ... Yes, yes, it is a disaster, yes, you have a disaster in your head, Mr. Feldman. Go on. We're all here... we will continue for the second time, colleagues. Thank you. ( Ploughs of opposition.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U426	The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U427	Hello... Good evening, colleagues, again! Yes, once again on this issue, there is a long and wide-ranging talk about how we can improve the electoral system and take a look at what direction. And if we look at history, look at examples from other countries, it is clear that there has been a very different path of development... how the electoral system as a whole has been developed. Of course, if we look at the current electoral order, then... in municipal elections, in regular elections, in dominion we can be elected for four years. Today we are talking, both before and now, about how and what we could do in emergency situations if a municipality council is dismissed. And it is clear that municipal councils cannot be fired just like a minister or simply deciding that I want the council to disappear. There must be very legally clear reasons why the Council has not done so in order to take this decision. Clearly, when it comes to very different cases... There have also been various examples in Latvia of how the councils have been... has been suspended... as these two examples have already been mentioned, which... ( Insight: ‘ On the subject! ’) ) which is already... ( The drug is noise. (See the box below.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U428	There's a chance... Continue the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U429	And... Yes, looking at this situation, it is clear that to some extent, in order to make our system, the electoral system, more democratic, which, if there are such potential situations, is essential for voters who make their choice as part of their current elections, so that they can make sure that they have elected representatives... and who know who makes these relevant decisions. Because very many decisions... Of course, we can talk about the municipality as an economic unit. That, of course, is what it is. Often, however, political decisions must also be made in the municipality, and this is not a rare occurrence. It is therefore very important who makes such decisions - whether they are appointed administrators or democratically elected municipal council. And that... on this essence is also the question of how we can develop our electoral system ahead of us, of course, looking at our common local government system as a whole... At the same time, as has already been said, we cannot deny the circumstances that potentially exist due to the possible dismissal of Riga City Council, and Riga is, of course, our largest and richest municipality, where political decisions must be taken almost every day, and there are many of them. If in theory it happens that such an event occurs that the Riga City Council is dismissed... and currently the statutory deadlines are such that administrators could work for these 15 months. At such a large and important municipality this is a very important time, however, in which the interests of Rigars to express their opinions are not directly represented... and how the municipality should develop... because it is clear that there are different ways in which the municipality can cooperate with the population, but this is one of these important ways. Yes, of course, also by acknowledging today... the decision that has already been taken... and the discussions that have been about the particular... on the particular draft law, but what is... which has also been in that sense analogous to the previous... obviously it has been, so to say, as let me say, the procedure... procedural errors, but it is a pleasure that this has been supported in this respect. But... There are also several circumstances why, in essence... why it is important that such a proposal be considered in general terms. And here's one of the proposals, one of such important arguments... and essential... is a utility consideration, as it has said a lot and... how it has also been expressed in many different discussions. Then, of course, it's very important to... In what context we look... and for how long these extraordinary elections have taken place... Let us say, not extraordinary elections, sorry for the mistake, but if a municipality council is dismissed. And it's clear that it's very useless as much as possible... very, let's say, re-organize in the short term... hold re-elections because logically this places a relatively high burden on public and municipal budgets. And I think it is absolutely not in the interests of citizens too - it is not! - frequently go to the elections and often express their views. All the more so, given that it is a direct use of taxpayers' money. And that is, in that sense, one very, very important aspect that appeared... What we also discussed in the Commission and who has said... from various expert opinions as well. As another important aspect, of course, this is a democratic aspect on which I... I had a little touch at the beginning, but I'd like to talk a little bit in detail. ( Internouncing call.) If we see... if we (Sitting driver knocked down with a hammer.) ... Thank you. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Members returned to the hall: “Go, did they buy you?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U430	Colleagues! Please don't bother the speaker in the platform! He spoke conceptually about the draft law at first reading. ( Interfaces: “You can’t talk! ” “Go away!” ‘Stop!’ (See the box below.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U431	Yes, if we are talking about this democratic principle, we can see that in fact very many... There are various examples of municipal councils being elected for a long period of time in both European and other countries of the world. And what has also said here is that five years... suddenly there is something very undemocratic. And what do we see? That this is absolutely not the case. And several experts in constitutional law have also made it clear that five years - potentially not something like that... which is undemocratic. All the more so if voters know how long they elect the municipality in question. The problem is if you elect a municipality and then extend this here... their maturity. So I think that we have come to a solution that also tackles the problems that could potentially be present in different municipalities over a long period of time and in a systematic way, because when we look forward, we will see in which country we are going to live. There can be problems. It is very good that we are thinking in good time about how to prevent them. Thank you. ( A coalition’s applause.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U432	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U433	Dear colleagues, I hope that Mr. Pucene is fine now and he knows he needs to do the right thing. If not, then maybe Mrs. Belova should take a place next to him and make sure he... that he will press the right button. But, colleagues, we are... and where have we stopped? So - by the dismissal of the Riga City Council. So, everything we heard last... How long it is... within almost a year - corruption, corruption, corruption. How corrupt its Riga City Council is, so their Riga City Council needs to be released. But if we now look at what is the justification behind Daniels Pavļuts' colleague's Puce, why Riga City Council should be released, we do not see any words about corruption. No words! So the Riga City Council must be released, but not because there has been some kind of corruption there. Is that... colleagues Mr. Pavļuta, does this mean, however, that there is no corruption in the Riga City Council? And then it is your opinion, with this, to assure you that you have been talking about any foolishness all this time, if, because of the fact that there is some kind of corruption in the Riga City Council? Because then... Why is it for some other reason to be fired? Go on. You, Mr. Pavilut, have asked us why the Harmony is doing so that you are, so to speak, against, and something... try to delay the adoption of all your draft laws within one day. Well, the answer is simple, Mr. Pavilut. We have laws. The law says that we have elections every four years, on such dates. And voters have made their choice. If you believe that voters should make a different choice, please, as I said, return to the collection of signatures, to the referendum on the dismissal of Riga City Council. But then be the voters who make this decision, not Mr. Pouce or Mr. Pavlut, or Mr. Newup, or... who now really makes such decisions to you. Go on. You say, Mr Pavilut, that the law has been violated. A have you not violated the law on medical pay? You haven't violated the law on medical pay? You're not all in violation of the law on medical pay? About university funding? About science? You have repeatedly violated the law! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “It doesn’t count!” ) Then you should be released, right? If you say that the Riga City Council has to be released that it has violated some laws... Whatever. Then you have to apply the same standards to yourself! Then, since you also have transgressed the law, you must set your mandate. Everyone! Go on. Corruption scandals. But I'm sorry, OIK, what is it at all? This is not a scandal of corruption? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “Millions don’t count!” ) There is no decision of the Saeima to eliminate that OIC also, on which you all, each of you have voted. OIC eliminated? Karina's government, what, has the Saeima's decision to wind up OICs? This is not a scandal of corruption? What is it at all? Consultants. Tell me, there's a Vilnius Chersis. He doesn't, in case, advise the Foreign Minister? ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.) He's not a consultant? He really works, does he fictitiously receive his salary? And I think if we start to investigate every member of your Riga City Council, I think we'll see that they don't only live there on the Riga City Council's salary 700... how much there... It's about EUR 90... monthly. We simply all understand that Re:Baltica does not study the activities and employment of members of the coalition, perhaps also fictitious. So, colleagues, look at you! If you ask for something from others, then be prepared to apply the same standards in the first round - first round! - For yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U434	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U435	Given that my colleague called for the same standards to be applied to us as to everyone else - myself and so on (Dep. I. Zarins: “Yes, right you said to us and... “)... I'm only partially... I will only talk about the existing draft law in part of this troupe. Because here today we see that this platform is being used for the case “Everything on my heart”. You know, for me, the heart is that in the municipality of Riga, because the law is “On Municipalities”, the Saeima is located. And there is now a huge cat between two Members in the Saeima. I even feel that the conflict is between Member Aldi Gobzem and Member Sandi Riekstin. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: “On the bill!” ) I always think how can this situation now be corrected in this municipality... What's going on... Riga. And I think... I think I've found a solution. There is a need for sport! There's a need for sport, which... which results in a boxing match between Aldi Riekstin and... ( Laughs) Aldi Gobzem and Sandi Riekstin. Boxing machine. ( Intercretion: “The President, let him talk about the proposal! ” ) I have a proposal. Given that this will take place in the municipality of Riga, and given that I heard that the new mayor of Riga would be Mārtiņš Staķis, then I think that Mārtiņš Staķis could be appointed as a judge. As you feel, this proposal in this bill... second reading... could be good? ( Milestones.) For the municipalities. Because here we speak everything to the heart. ( Laughs) Colleagues, for me, the proposal is to move on to the vote and end this farce. Thank you. ( A coalition's bellows.) Depp. U. Plant: “Mr. Mūrniece, how can she?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U436	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U437	Marty! Marty, I have a college recommendation that you don't come here in the whole month to talk to the barn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U438	I closed the debate. Is there any further explanation in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U439	On behalf of the Commission, I am calling on you to vote in favour of the draft law "Amendment to the Law on Municipalities".
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U440	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to Law “On Municipalities” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 45, against - 5, abstaining. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the consideration...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U441	The Commission decided on the proposal...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U442	... and the time of the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U443	The Commission decided to set a deadline for the submission of proposals at 12 noon on 16 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U444	And the examination?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U445	And the second reading - 19 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U446	Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals was 12 noon on 16 December this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting on 19 December this year. Dear colleagues, Members Dzintars, Strike, Pavļuts, Adamovičs and Vitenbergs are asking to announce a break at the Saeima sitting after the examination of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Municipalities” by 9 a.m. on 19 December. Do Members have objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Members have reservations. Please call me! Let us vote for a break before 9 a.m. on December 19 this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. So a break is being announced. Dear colleagues, Regarding today's answers to Members' questions, it is being postponed to the next week. Members Zarins, Kabanovs, Adamsons, Krišāns and Orlovs submitted a question “On the amount of funding required to meet statutory requirements in the state budget for 2020”, which is addressed to the Prime Minister Kariņš. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U447	The public should be aware that the current coalition, using the mass media, deliberately deceives the public that the funding promised by the law for medical practitioners was an unfulfilled promise. That is not the case. We ask Krišjānis Kariņš to submit... report on how the requirements of the law and the available funding are actually there. He transferred it to the Minister of Finance, while the Minister of Finance refused to provide this information. That's right. already when we asked them to answer for their words, for those words that... It tells us how much money is provided for in the law and that budgetary requirements do not allow it to be met. He just refused. He said, “We don’t know anything like that.” So now we write to Krišjānis Kariņš, and yet we demand that he tell him how it really was, how much money was in the budget and how much according to the requirements of the law... I had to do it. Was it really unfulfilled? If he does not do that, we have the tools to get him here and to do it.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U448	Please call me! Please register the Members! Name of the Saeima Secretary Maria Golubeva. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U449	Not registered: Raimonds Bergmanis, Boriss Cilevičs, Jānis Dombrava, Aivars Geidāns, Artuss Kaimiņš, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Rihards Kols, Armands Krauze, Ainars Latkovskis, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Daniels Pavluts... And, Ramona Petraviča, Ivars Puga... yes, Ivan Ribakov, Lubova Švecova, Viktors Valainis and Jānis Vitenbergs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-12-PT13-2026-U450	Interruption until 9 a.m. on December 19 of this year. ( Interruption)
