ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U1	Good afternoon, honourable Members and everyone who follows the Saeima sitting! Colleagues, I invite you to take seats in the Chamber so that we can begin the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 23 January 2019. On the agenda, under the heading ‘Dealing the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, trust or distrust’. Draft decision “On Expression of Trust to the Cabinet of Ministers”. Name of the candidate for the post of Prime Minister Artur Krišjānis Kariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U2	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen! It really is a great honour for me to address you today as the candidate nominated by the President of Latvia for the post of Prime Minister. If we count, it's been full 15 weeks since 13. For the parliamentary elections, and with your positive vote today, we will finally be able to come to the government so long awaited and built. Of course, I would like to thank everyone who has participated in this process, especially the candidates for the excellent work they have done. First of all, three things – what are the goals, how we will work together and what will be our priorities. I have set three main objectives. The first is very comprehensive – to build the well-being of the people. Well, what would then be the main objective of any government, if not this one! Of course, we must also ensure justice and the rule of law in the country; we must reduce inequality in all the manifestations in which it is in the country. How will we work together to achieve these goals? I invite you to think for a moment about the past of our country, our people – look at the pages of history books. At the end of the 12th century. In our country there were several very proud and independent nations, tribes – we call it what we want – curators, subgalls, seeds, Latgalians and Livs. When the German merchants, the German clergy, and the German crusades arrived, they were able to take over the power of our country. Why? Because we were divided into separate groups – each very proud. But the Germans used one very elementary tactic, which is used again and again in history, called “the division and the dominion. ” They did so, and they did it. And then... we know the course of history – the Livonian Confederation together with Southern Estonia... Then it collapsed. Then there was the Duke of Kurzeme, where the cowards and the seeds were in one political unit. Then Vidzeme and Latgale were in one unit until about 1660, when again they separated... Created in Swedish Vidzeme... And so it continued until 1918, when at last all the Latvian districts were united in one country. And why did our fathers succeed? Very basic: because the people wanted it. The nation was united and our country was formed. The first years of independence followed and three more occupations. And when 28 years ago our country regained its independence – why did this happen? It happened, because the people wanted it, because the people were united. And we regained our independence. Now let's think about today. What's 13. The result of the parliamentary elections? On the one hand, people say: ‘ Or, such a broken Saeima! No order or clarity!’ But the people have voted for you according to what it is. Our citizens have different views. It's not all the same. And in a way, this Saeima is a reflection – it is the joint reflection of our voters. Seven political parties or an association of parties were elected in quite similar proportions. Hence, no one has the advantage of taking over power, or as they say, to rule over others. But now we, five parties or party associations, have found a way to work together. And so far the key for us to establish a government and for the future government is that we have learned not to take each other with authority, but to listen to each other, to talk about common goals and to agree on joint action. Because we've realized that one isn't a soldier. The forces must be joined up, especially if we, as elected politicians, want to do something good for our country and our people. But also this future government and coalition... We have also understood whether, hopefully, we will have learned from past mistakes. Because so far it has been very common that the government is on one side and the opposition on the other side. From the point of view of the government and the ruling coalition, if there is a proposal from the opposition, then it must be rejected only because it comes from the opposition. And what are we determined to do? Change this order a little, realizing that the opposition is not already an opposition to our country, it is an opposition to our government. But we are ready to listen to and evaluate any proposal from the opposition on the substance. If it is the same as our government, our coalition's common goals, then it will also find support for both the government and the coalition as a whole. So we're going to work together. We will listen to each other. And we will not be just rejecting the opposition proposals, but we will evaluate everything in substance. What would then (as a third) be the specific priorities of the government? You have all read the government declaration, which has already been made public and has probably been distributed to you. There, of course, is more detailed. Following the approval of the government, further action plans will follow, which will be much more concrete. But what are the main things? I would now like to highlight seven of the things that have been mentioned in our declaration. And I would like to say that there are two ways to work. One is an approach that I would call a revolutionary. Well, everything needs to be changed, it needs to be radically changed, whether it's a healthcare system or education, as says... comes and says, “All that has happened is bad, let’s put everything down in the air and do it differently!” It is not mine and it will not be our approach. I am not and we are not revolutionary. I am and we are and will be evolutionary. If such a word can be used, i.e. “order”... If there are any words that could be called, then these are – we are looking for “order the country”. So the first. We need to put the financial system in order. We all know that there is a Moneyval report with recommendations that we should make together so that the country does not enter the so-called grey list, the grey area. This is, in fact, a threat to society as a whole. We must tackle this threat. Second. We will strengthen justice and the rule of law in the country. Third. We will implement the course launched by the previous government in the context of health and education system reforms. It will not only be a transition to a national language in schools, but also – very much from weight – a transition to new quality criteria. We will improve this system as a whole. Similarly, the healthcare system will be the same. We will not break down, we will build on what is already in place and we will improve, we will increase accessibility for citizens. Five. Very laconic – we will liquidate OIC. Six. We will carry out a territorial reform, as this reform will also make it much easier for us to organise both education and healthcare systems, as any reform – especially administrative territorial reform – aims at improving public services or public services for the citizens themselves, always putting the citizens at the heart of the agenda. And the seventh (but it's not the least, because at the moment I only mention it as the seventh) – let's tackle the issue of demographics. We know and understand – if we want (and we want!) to talk about the future of our country, then we must first and foremost ensure that the decline in the country's population stops and that we return to a stable growth path in terms of population. Of course, when we do all these things, we will respect two conditions. The first is fiscal discipline. We signed the Fiscal Discipline Treaty this morning. Anyone can read, understand what lies behind those words. We will also clearly continue the Euro-Atlantic course launched by the country - and this is not insignificant. We will not deviate from this course. On the contrary, we will strengthen Latvia's international role in the Euro-Atlantic area. Colleagues! Firstly, we are now forming governments at a time when it can be illustrated that the external waters are somewhat encircled. In Europe, Brexit, the process is still going on, no one in this Chamber and, I would say, neither the British governments nor the House of Parliament really knows how it will end. There's a lot of uncertainty not only in Britain... and Latvians living in Great Britain, but all over Europe... including our exporters. Secondly, our neighbour Russia has become – in my opinion, it cannot be called on any other name – aggressive. If we think about the illegal annexation of Crimea, about the war that this country is still doing in the East... West... East... I'm looking at the map. Eastern Ukraine... And... what's happening in Syria... It is a challenge not only for Latvia, it is a challenge for the whole of Europe and, in fact, for the whole world. And, thirdly, there is a rise in radicalism, in fact, throughout the world. And these three challenges are the circumstances in which we work. But I am sure that by working together, listening to each other, helping each other and keeping your mind cool, we will be able to safely and steadily drive our country through these perhaps externally somewhat unstable times. Colleagues! I call on all those present to vote in favour of approval of the Government in the following composition (I am reading it): Prime Minister – myself, in full name – Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš, Member of the Prime Minister and Minister for Defence – Artis Pabriks, Member of the Prime Minister and Minister for Justice – Jānis Bordāns, Minister for Foreign Affairs – Edgars Rinkēvičs, Minister for Economic Affairs – Ralfs Nemiro, Minister for Economic Affairs – Jānis Reirs, Minister for the Interior – Sandis Ģirgens, Minister for Education and Science – Ilga Šuplinska, Minister for Culture – Dace Melbārde, Minister for Welfare – Ramona Petravičs, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development – Juris Pūce, Minister for Transport – Tālis Linkaitis, Minister for Health – Ilze Viņķe and Minister for Agriculture – Kaspars Gerhards. I want to thank you for your attention. And I call indeed that God bless us all and that God bless our Latvia too. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U3	Thank you for the Prime Minister's candidate Artur Krišjānis Kariņš. Let us start a debate. Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U4	Mr. Karins! Like many hundreds of thousands of people in Latvia, it is difficult for me to believe the truth of your words today. In fact, your government will be a government for failure to deliver promises, for voters to throw and for society to split up. It is not possible to find at least 99 per cent of the very concrete promises made during the pre-elections in your government declaration. Where is the famous promise “3 x 500” of the New Conservative Party missing? Where is this party's determination – I quote the leaders of this party – "to raise the minimum pension to 200 euros per month already in 2019"? What has happened, then, to the reduction in the number of ministries? Doctors' salaries – at least 1700 euros per month, at least 30 percent – decrease in the price of medicines? Where are the “Development/Par!” associations a promise to double the salaries of nurses of medicine, to double the funding of the State Culture Capital Fund, to triple the funding of scientific activities? Party “CPV LV”, I will also ask you: will you continue to enter only the government – I quote your leaders – “What will be the swift government of the destruction of OIC”? Will you keep your promise – with effect from 1 July this year, completely abolishing the OIC? Science funding: one per cent of GDP... and more generally, what about the elimination of the Coalition Cooperation Council? A few months ago you told your constituents that – I quote – “needs a break”. You told people about your principles, one of which is radical action. Is this Karin's government your radical action? Is that your promised break? I don't think so. What we see today is a break of your character, a break of your personality. Mr. Karins, I don't see where you are... Your government will, at least formally, be led by a party which, out of all the parties elected by the Saeima, has obtained the confidence of the lowest voters. I would remind you that it was your personal faith in your party that you did not even stand up for the parliamentary elections. Mr Kariņš, ask yourself the following questions: if you were a candidate, would you be elected at all, would you be a member of the Saeima today? You say that your government will only make commitments in 2020 in the hope of economic growth. But, Mr Kariņš, the government declaration shows that your government's understanding of the economy and economy is zero. Your declaration about the future economy only contains such a deep thought that in order to develop the economy, we need to attract investments, raise productivity and improve the business environment. I think almost any course 3 student could write something better. Your Government's declaration shows a clear and glaring lack of competence. I will only mention two examples. Your declaration contains a promise to increase the use of renewable energy sources at the same time and to meet the commitments with the European Union and to eliminate the mandatory procurement components. You're even on a course, how is that possible? I urge you to consult with your party's existing Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvil Asheraden. In the government declaration, you are committed to ensuring that labour taxes in all wage groups will be competitive in the Baltic, while fully respecting the Law on Fiscal Discipline. How is this possible? You know at all that in Estonia labour taxes are much lower than in Latvia? That competitiveness will require at least EUR 100 million per year from the public budget? That competitiveness will require a complete elimination of all personal income tax progress? How does it go with your determination to reduce income inequality? Mr. Kariņš, it is absolutely clear to several hundreds of thousands of Latvians that one of the main foundations of your government is the exclusion and alienation of these people. We are talking about about about a third of Latvia's population. Do you think, Mr. Karins, that such hatred and intolerance can lead to something at all? A better country? You hate each other in a coalition! That whole coalition is one fictitious government! For the general public, following the pre-election campaign that you have spoken about each other for the last three months, that is absolutely clear. I would, of course, like to say very much that the only real promise that will be fulfilled is the promise to reject and alienate the people of the world. However, that would not be true, because of course you will also fulfill the promises made to your sponsors. They are not written in a government declaration, but... is it true, however, that one of the first works of the new government will be to remove the head of the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption, as well as the Prosecutor General? We are being put to the vote today in favour of the Karina Government. But I'm going to ask a question – will Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš guide it? Who will actually lead it? Who leads you, Mr. Karin? Imants Debtor? Anybody else? Do you have any idea, Mr Kariņš, that all your ministers have committed themselves to and promised to whom? What are their real commitments? Mr Kariņš, I will vote against your government. But at the same time, I understand that your government has its place in history. I think that it is necessary to demonstrate once again the deadlock of hate-based policies. I believe that this is the place of your government in history. I wish you good luck! I very much ask you to do this in the least painful way for the people of Latvia. Thank you. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U5	Member Raivis Dzintars is on behalf of the Group of the National Alliance.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U6	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Mr. Prime Minister! Dear colleagues, There are really a lot of reasons for the future government not to become a success story. If we approve the government today, it can be said that it was born in more than 15 weeks' suffering. The history of complicated relations before and after the elections, profound ideological differences in values, different political experiences, many important issues not yet discussed, a wide representation of parties... Illustratingly – the previous prime minister had to be juggled with three balls, while the new one with five, and each one with its own colour, weight and size. For many members of the government, this will be the first government, and this will mean a whole new experience, new feelings and challenges. For others this will be the current coalition. They have well - walked paths in the government’s house and in the Saeima’s corridors. But at the same time you will have to learn to understand and assume that the paths you walk will not always be the ones you walk along, and many things will have to be revealed together again. It won't be easy. And there's a big chance that something's going to get upset. A strong, politically hardened opposition will take care of this, which will see every weakness from a long distance. And I do believe, however, that the majority of the Saeima Members present today are determined to prove that, despite all these circumstances, the government will be, it will be stable, lasting and will be able to meet essential commitments that will make Latvia better. Yes, maybe many things will come through effort, through disputes, through long compromise quests, and only depends on whether we will acquire the skills that were perhaps not important during the pre-elections, but are very important now – the skills to work in the team, to rise across the party boundaries. We plan to entrust team management to Artur Krišjānis Kariņš. We have already discussed with Mr. Kariņš, even arguing... and, most certainly, let us not continue to think the same way about all things. At the same time, I am convinced that Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš wants to be a collegiate leader, wants to listen to and understand the views of each party, each member of the team. How good Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš will be as Prime Minister, we will only be able to say after a while. What we can say about now, however, is self-pity and courage by giving up the seat of a Member of the European Parliament and taking on this risky, difficult duty, the results of which are still in a deep fog. Thanks for this to Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš. This really deserves respect and appreciation. Too dense red lines before and after the elections were one of the causes of a very heavy government based on the method of exclusion and the least evil. Allow me to be unpopular in the eyes of some colleagues, but I believe that the opposition of a number of Greens and Farmers' Union politicians is a loss. On behalf of both my own and that of the National Union, I would like to say a great deal of thanks to the President of the outgoing government, Mr Kučinski. Not far from all things, our opinions have come together, but we have always been able to count on the word given by Māra Kučinska, and we have always felt him not only as a representative of our party or association of parties, but the leaders of all governments, the leaders of the whole team. As I said, the new government will be an ideologically different party government. This means that a wider range of issues will not be decided by the ruling coalition alone, and we will increasingly try to convince each other in discussions in Parliament. So get ready, colleagues! Let us break the chains both here and in coalition working groups – the National Association is ready for this. At the same time, I feel that there are enough Members among the different parties who are prepared not only to defend their views but also to listen, understand and, if not agree, at least to respect others. If we work on this basis, there will be more questions alongside the fights and weapon breakups, where we will find common ground with similar enthusiasm. I am pleased that among these common cases there is an understanding of the foreign and geopolitical course of our country, of the need to support science, innovation and culture, of the objective of continuing the transition to public language training at all levels of education, of supporting people with special needs and of many other issues, which are not only single parties, but also our common priorities. The Ministers of the National Union, Dace Melbārde and Kaspars Gerharde, and their people, are very late in success and success. Thank you for representing our association. I wish all the Cabinet of Ministers and every Member who will work constructively to turn the good intentions expressed in the government declaration into results that can be felt and appreciated by Latvian citizens. I call for a vote in favour and an opportunity for Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš to prove that every impossible mission can become possible and successful! Thank you. ( A circle of coalition factions.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U7	Thank you. Development/About! Member of the Commission
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U8	Dear President of the Saeima. Mr. Prime Minister! Colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! It's a holiday for me today. I am absolutely sure that in a rather short time, a stable majority of the Saeima will vote in favour and will support the government of Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš. This moment is good to see how we have reached this day. It is past – I have transferred myself today – 109 days since... After the elections in the morning. Day 109. Is that a lot or a little? How can you view it? On the one hand, this is clearly too much. It's been too long. We are tired, society is tired. Our constituents have lost patience. They think we're not doing our job. We have lost hope. Both in the centenary of Latvia and in the evening of the Old Year – perhaps for someone it seems important – we were approached by the Prime Minister of the Interim Government and not by the new Head of Government. On the other hand, is there a permanent damage? Our country is built in such a way that, even without the creation of a new government, there is a "technical government", there is a stable government, there is a medium-term budget, which allows the state to function normally, people to receive remuneration, many people also receive a salary supplement even under the conditions of the current budget, while, colleagues, we, the Saeima, the old and the new forces, are working on ourselves. Our main debt is in front of Latvian society – before our voters. We came with a promise of a new policy. What has it been so far? Has what we have done over the past 109 days reduced the gap between society and politicians? Disputes, accusations against each other, political position – all this has been the case. Unfortunately, this has not increased public confidence. I think we have to overcome this new disbelief that we are not only insulted here in this house by those who are lost in their sense of importance, but by those who think about voters and the future of Latvia. And I take responsibility for that. It has also been in my area of responsibility, and it has been part of our democracy in our performance. And yet, my fellow Members, I look at it with great hope. Perhaps it was inevitable... Perhaps it was necessary and good – to make this investment in the development of Latvian democracy. I think the government that we are going to establish today is the best we could have created today. We have learned a lot: young people to live with old people, old people to live with young people, young people to live with each other. We have learned to assume that not everything from the old is bad and discarded and that not everything from the new is right and useable. There are two different situations – to say things before and after the elections. We have learned to align fiscal responsibility, objectives and promises with opportunities, our wish as a group of our voters, with the needs of the common. Neither eight, 11, 13, 16, nor even 23 seats in the Saeima give anyone the right to claim that they have won the elections, or to take a monopoly on the will of the people. We have learned the measure of politeness. Yes, it turns out that it is important in politics too, and perhaps even more important than elsewhere. To be respectful, tolerating, patient toward one another – this is something I have personally learned. Accept different and different: for us liberals – conservatives, for position – opposition. Why don't you tell me the school's paying money? In this case, our schooling has taken time. We're out there, colleagues. It is time to turn to work – normal, everyday, patient and possibly difficult work in managing our country to increase justice to build a more modern society and state in the 21st century. Perhaps the best news today that we are reading both in the declaration and in the other documents on which the approval of the government and our vote are based is that all signatories have achieved at least a few steps against each other. We have shown that not only can we sit at one table, but we can also agree on a joint, essential, declaration of intent, renewed principles of cooperation in the coalition and a responsible attitude towards public finance opportunities. We have shown that we can violate our ego on behalf of our common interests. Our voters say – it's enough to live on a break, let's go ahead! Let me highlight a few points. Now on the content on which the future government is based. On the declaration. Yes, many corners are flattened, many of the wordings are rounded, many of them say: let's see, we can't agree yet. But there are many important things. I'll mention a few. Reducing inequality is a priority for all government work. We have promised to complete the municipal reform. And let me emphasise this in particular! – We will provide all residents of Latvia with access to healthcare without exception. It will be human rights! We will continue education reforms, develop a modern economy, a stable tax system and a responsive, modern public administration. I very much hope that our new policies, colleagues, after this school that we have gone together, will be characterised by dialogue on political issues and respect for each other's relations, the adoption of other opinions and the inclusion of the opposition. Dear colleagues, I will continue to defend the rights and duty of the SASCAN and the ZZS to participate in the work of the parliamentary committees, to assume responsible positions and to contribute to the work of the Saeima. I hope that we will build on evidence and take decisions decisively when this evidence and analysis is sufficient and that our political decisions will not lack transparency and openness. And finally, let me move on to my wishes. The future government of Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš wants to wish performance and determination by balancing the wishes and opportunities of the five parties and to be united in diversity as the European Union in which we are all. In the Saeima – respect, democracy and cooperation. I would like to thank the Prime Minister of the outgoing government, Mr Kučinskis. As we have criticised his work before and after the elections, I would like to thank him and his ministers. This has not been an easy job. There has been a lot of good work done at the same time as mistakes. I want to wish Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš and his team luck, both by correcting mistakes and creating team spirit, but above all, in finally implementing long-term implementation of the necessary reforms, creating a fairer and more modern Latvian state. Tell the government "for"! ( A circle of coalition factions.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U9	Thank you. Member of the Group of the Greens/ Farmers' Union, Armands Krauze.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U10	Colleagues! Mr. Karins! Today we are talking about the approval of Mr Kariņš's government, what will be done. But tomorrow, these negotiations will have a history, just as in the meantime, Mr Kariņš's government will have a history. ( Merry laughter.) And what will Mr. Karin's government keep in mind? With ministers and Members who are not... or forget your promises and won't do anything to do it. Let's look at the pre-election time! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M. Bondar: “M. Krauze, you are not a historian!” ) Here in the Chamber, there are very many sitting who have promised something to their constituents, and we have forgotten that. So they were lies before the elections. Look, there's Mr. Bordan right here. You said clearly and lightly – there will be eight ministries. No, but there are 13 ministries. I could read it again. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Feldman: “List it!” ) Members' salaries are, of course, increasing. What about the doctor’s wages? Doctors' salaries were promised €1,700. Science funding... by the way, Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas, you promised one and a half percent. What was to happen this year? The minimum wage must be 500 euros, the minimum pension – 200 euros. For the first child – 50, for the second – 100, for the third – 150 euros. To say that, there are a lot of promises. What is this in the declaration? There is in fact nothing in the declaration. Let us talk about the figures. You have written some very important figures. Two were in fact known and were already decided upon during the previous government. First – you will provide the Norwegian Financial Mechanism 85,4 million... all these negotiations, as well as those with donors, have been decided. The second key is that two per cent of the protection has already been available for some time. Perhaps it is closer to the whole nation that we will prepare for the 150th anniversary of the song festival tradition. At least 150 is mentioned. And I'll... We carefully read with our colleagues what you promised and what those words were. And the words in the declaration are: "let's ensure" 46 times, "let's build" 40 times, "let's continue" 38 (it's pleasant, so you also understand that many of the work that has been done needs to be carried out, and I think that here, too, I really thank the ministers of the previous government who will continue to work in the new government), "to improve" 21 times, "to assess" 20 times, but the words that describe doing are only 14 times. And if we count together, 165 against 14. Well, there's something like an empty talk, not a business. The declaration is, of course, clear, very clear: two works – administrative territorial reform and the OIC... However, no final date has been set for the OIC, which can cause confusion. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (M. Bondar’s intermediate call.) And what, by the way, the Saeima decided, could also be recorded in the declaration. So, I think, in the case of OICs, it is likely that you will be hard and you will continue to support the OIC millionaires, not support the people. Well, taking into account what the new coalition has prepared and recorded in the declaration, it could be quite certain that next year, i.e. 2020, Latvia is expected to face a crisis, a severe crisis. Consequently, the Union of Greens/Farmers cannot, of course, support such a government. ( Internoint.) (Area of the ZZS fraction.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U11	Thank you. Member Jānis Bordāns is on behalf of a new conservative group.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U12	Dear Latvian people! Colleagues! We're made to work, we're not made to talk a lot. That has now been our position, in my opinion, when we took part together in the work on the government declaration. And, among other things, Latvians have such a good saying – what is slowly coming, it is well coming. Our colleague, Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš, who is now nominated and here the first to speak from the gallery as a candidate for Prime Minister, I think he made a very good summary of how our nation has reached today. As a nation, we have thousands of years of history – a very long time ago. Besides, this thousands of years of history... it has been in this area, no place around. As a state, we have 100 years – how much the state exists. But the modern history of all of us is about 30 years old. It's not much or little. And all the knowledge that we have built up will we invest in working together to find common solutions to all the issues on the agenda that we will be asked by the society that we ourselves see. Thank you very much to the opposition, thank you to those who have worked so far. But most of all I want to talk about the future. The future awaits us very nice, good, positive – that is my personal mood today. We have produced a document that is in front of everyone... what we have set before the people. As it says, measurable sizes and works are to be done. That is what awaits us. The new conservative party will come not with its own settings as just its own settings, but... we will do (as I speak on behalf of the Group, I will also mention)... we're going to bring our loaf of bread to the common table, put our shoulders on the joint. And when I start this joint work, I think we are all not all inclined to the difficulties that lie ahead, but I think what we now need to do, how we will build, how we will support each other. I think with this mood I also call everyone else... All who are in this hall can be sure of the country of Latvia. None of the potential government - and I am sure it will be confirmed - is an enemy of the state, is not an enemy of people, and in that spirit, too, I think the work will continue. I am particularly pleased that we have mentioned a specific chapter on state security and the rule of law. This has been the issue in the declarations of many governments. How it's been... We have also talked a lot about this: as we do, it will be our responsibility, and I think this responsibility will be in about four years' time when we can come here and report. I invite you to support the... Mobilized... and his Cabinet of Ministers, headed by the Prime Minister. We'll all be in one job, and we'll all be... In my opinion, openness will be very important, and the most important thing will be that there will be no secret transactions at the expense of the people, at the expense of the state budget, collusive agreements that will take our children into debt. There will be no such government, and all of this will be our responsibility. And may God stand before us, that God bless Latvia! Good luck for everyone in future work! ( A circle of coalition factions.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U13	Thank you. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U14	Dear colleagues, As long as the government's negotiations with the KPV LV faction were being conducted, for a very short time in the minds of some people, I was seen as the 51st rescue aid that could help Mr Kariņš to establish a government. There were various speculations, so today I would like to say to you that I will support Karin's government if it does not contain the laughter of Edgars Rinkēvičs. – Foreign Minister, who recently demonstrated a convincing immunity from the supreme decision-making power. If there is no Minister for Health, Ilze Viņķele, who continues to lose the voter's confidence, no matter what the party is. I will support Karina's government if it does not have Minister of Defence Art Pabrika (Dep. Pabriks: “I am... !” ), which is morally co-responsible for the ruins of 13 January in the Old Town. Arta Pabrika, who promised to bring new faces into politics and not to leave the old one. What will he promise you now? I will support Kariņš' government if it does not also include the Minister of Finance Jānis Reira, whose inaction and lack of initiative led to the planned 2015... the socio-economic disaster that we had to deal with together in the Saeima. The lowest European fund acquisition rates and the fall of Latvia in Doing business ratings are also worth Mr Reira. And that was one of the reasons why in 2016 we asked for his resignation together with the coalition... Forgiveness, not coalitions, but opposition - opposition of that time - to colleagues. I will support Karini's government when its main objective will be the fight against poverty rather than the ideological war on same-sex marriages, because, colleagues, inequalities are in people's wallets rather than in the family lists. It is not difficult for me to follow my point of view consistently, because I remember what I said and why and how I did it. I also remember what my fellow Members did and what they said, for example, in December 2016 Mr Bondara was the second applicant for Mr Reira's resignation right behind me. But Mr. Kaimiņš was the fourth. ( The intermediate call: “And the loudest speaker! ” ) By asking Mr Reira for a dilemma about financial and welfare inactions, Mr Kaimiņa said: "As long as former Communists rule in our country, there will be no change in the government until that happens in that country. While Piebalgs, the Head of Unity, who is exactly the same former Communist... Nothing will change here.” “Go, please, go away in holy rest.” - said Mr. Kaimiņš, Mr. Reira, who he is likely to support today. Mr. Neighbouring did not love UNIFORM, and it also had a clear basis. CONNECTIONS were also hit by the harsh word... Mr Dalder, who has already been leaving, opposed to the initiative on reduced VAT on fruit and vegetables, which has now proved to be a success. At that time, more than a year ago, Mr. Neighbouring said: "Look, Dalder, I think that this proposal to abolish reduced VAT on fruit and vegetables should be deducted from the group in which you are at the moment. Who's sitting next to you? Also to deduct Loskutow. And gypsy take it away. And Judas, take you away!” ( Intercretion: “Modern malacis! ” ) Judas left. ‘ It's a real good thing – five percent go to these vegetables and so on. That's great! Very good! It was a long time to go!” - so said Mr. Kaimiņš, and the people listened to him. And the people believed Mr. Neighbours. But a week ago, the forthcoming coalition laughed at an initiative to reduce VAT on primary food needs. And where was Mr. Neighbours? Regarding consistency, Mr Bondara also, while in opposition, was keenly in favour of reduced VAT, but now he must have been ashamed. Why, Mr. Bondar? Why, now that the positive effect has already been demonstrated, 2018 has come to an end, you arrogantly withdrawn from our proposal a week ago? Do you already have a meeting with Latgale voters to tell them? Bondars: Friday! ), how do you fight for... for their welfare to rise, not for the Istanbul Convention? No, no! I think they are more interested in combating poverty. Kariņš Government as a silent conspiracy towards Latvia and its citizens. A power grabbing theatre, directed by the largest political losers. And their hunt is Latvia's new policy, voters' expectations and new face policy. But if someone says that we urgently need a new government, because we need a budget, I'll ask you: if, as you climb the plane you've been waiting for for a very long time, you see that the pilot has been drinking in a bag of drawers, but in the cabin suspicious incentives armed men are fighting for a place at the illuminator. ... or women... I think you don't care. Will you fly with it, colleagues? Even if you need to get to the destination very quickly? This, my fellow Members, is not a new policy. This is a policy that makes society even more disappointed. And those deceptive 54 percent who came and hoped... and people abroad... drove, measured long distances with trains and buses to vote for a new policy. But, see, you have been blessed with the people. I think that nobody else here has been so blessed with the people as you. Rather, the people of Latvia will vote silently with their feet than come with a poster to stand at the Saeima, because anyone who dares to do so will be intimidated by provocators and ridiculed. There is no nation power. There is no new policy. The old policy makers laid out the viewer and simply replaced the wigs for the dunes. Welcome back to the destination! Colleagues! I'm not going on this plane, even though there are some smiley faces in the cabin. I also call on you not to do so. I will not support Karina's government. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U15	The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U16	Dear colleagues, 13. The results of the parliamentary elections clearly showed that the inconceivable arrogance of a large part of the ruling political elite in society has turned and longs for new blood. According to the results of the elections, there are no municipalities in all 110 regions of Latvia and nine cities of the Republic where the majority of voters – more than 50 per cent of the voters – would support the ZZS, National Associations and the New Unity Coalition. The fact that all three government parties together have not convinced the majority of the voters of any municipality is really shocking. It follows that the majority of Latvian citizens have expressed their distrust for the policies pursued by the government. The 2018 elections can be seen as a popular vote against the CFP, the National Alliance and the New Unity policy. The majority of Latvian citizens made their position clear – the government acts contrary to the interests of the majority of Latvian citizens. Another question is that a number of voters have already turned to the new blood, because the taste of the sweet foam cream has been replaced by the salty bark of bread, which is now something we all have to reap. No matter how much of the society’s broad support for the new right forces would be for the people themselves, the lowest election activity – 54,56 percent – does not indicate huge public support and confidence in politicians from the New Conservative Party, KPV LV and Development/Par! . Nineteen percent for these parties in the Saeima elections actually means only six or seven percent of all those who have the right to vote in Latvia. There is no doubt that the formation and approval of a government is a difficult process for putting public life into order. However, the process of making this coalition, even if you want it very much, is difficult to call it a success story. Unfortunately, the analytical idea has not been given a significant place in this process. Of course, it cannot be said that there is no change. It is not yet certain that they are good. So populist, poor insults full pre-election campaign, which does not end now, has not long been experienced. More! The change carriers, which have dropped the heavy burden of government making at their feet, are now trying to put it in the lap of the smallest player – the New Unity, who has only eight mandates in the Saeima. A representative of this old policy is now seen as the last hope. If four and a half political groups form a coalition of government, it is an extremely incomprehensible coalition, because it is neither a coalition of change supported by voters, nor an old coalition. In my opinion, it is an absolutely deaf coalition, because the government has been entrusted with a power that has lost its election. That's absurd, colleagues! Even though it seemed that there is no place to fall below, how to ask to run the government to the candidate for the Prime Minister of the old political group and the smallest group, it turns out – there is! Having examined the declaration about the planned activities of the Cabinet of Ministers led by Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš, I found that the promises of pre-elections were fantastic, but the actual actions now are simply regrettable. The question arises: which of the pre-election promises will be fulfilled, which will not? Let's say, will the new conservative party's promise of a minimum pension of EUR 200 this year be fulfilled, as well as the non-taxable minimum of personal income tax for salaries and pensions – EUR 500 per month? For natural gas, the new conservative party promised a price reduction of 30 per cent, and for all doctors a wage of at least EUR 1700 per hand and nurses – at least EUR 800. Development/About! promised to double the salaries of nurses, increase the minimum wage and the non-deemable minimum of EUR 500 per month. And what do we see now? It may happen that there is not enough money in the state purse to implement this plan, but the promises must be fulfilled. Therefore, my recommendation to government-makers – pay from your pocket to ensure that the 3 × 500 plan is implemented. Another important question – why has the promise to reduce the number of ministries been violated? Violation of promises will not bring glory to the government. You will only strengthen your conviction that non-compliance with Latvia's policy is nothing new. Furthermore, there are unelected politicians among the candidates for ministerial post who have been nominated today. In my opinion, if public support has not been received in elections, then it is very naive to wait for it. If the authors of the declaration want to strengthen the rule of law of the country, then the fact must be taken into account – the Constitutional Court has already provided a great deal of clarification in the field of the rule of law, where priority works for the development of the country are to be carried out. The timely and effective enforcement of judgments of the Constitutional Court would indicate the achievement of the next levels of rule of law in the country. Judgments of the Constitutional Court must simply be enforced. This has not always been so far. I do not see anything in the Government's plan, either, from the social sector or from raising the level of human well-being, because there are declaratory phrases in this area without specific figures. And I do not believe that the right-wing politicians will aim to reduce inequality. I do not believe that solutions will emerge without general intent. This means that a large part of the population will still have to live in poverty... Waiting for low-pension beneficiaries just to go to another sun... The Declaration leads to the conclusion that the newcomers have failed to change the traditions established by the New Unity and to incorporate the specificity of the document. Ignoring the problem does not mean professionalism. Unfortunately, there is a habit in Latvia to say and promise everything that comes to mind before the elections, but to pretend after the elections that it was just a pre-election rhetoric. It turns out that you can get to power by promising everything but not even remembering it later. That shouldn't be the case. According to surveys, 90 percent of Latvian citizens do not trust the Saeima and political parties. And that's not a miracle. This was not only demonstrated by 13. The results of the parliamentary elections, which can be seen as a protest vote, have also been demonstrated by the campaigns of newcomers, which have been developed to impose their only right view. Only usual such campaigns are based on half-truths, defaults and lies. It seems that the voter has been poorly used this time. The promises made during the election have been forgotten as a misunderstood misunderstanding. If you continue so irresponsiblely, colleagues, the percentage of aid will not increase. What can be the belief of people in politicians who spoke one before the elections, but who do not even want to remember it now?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I think that even the potential members of the future coalition understand that this will be a very fragile construction that they will be able to easily dismantle themselves, because the promises made to voters and those made in the pre-election campaign have not been forgotten. The partners won't work, they're going to be tortured. This government will not be a long-term measure. It is therefore unclear what is expected of the company. Improvisation, uncertainty is now much more than otherwise. And it is unlikely that various rituals can offend social contagion due to the particularities of this government. Because it was taken care of by the “right” parties themselves, concentrating within a few months a whole bunch of weeds: power, distrust, talking, bile, instability. I know that this is not what we want to see our country. Every person in Latvia wants to live with stable income, confidence in ensuring the future. Just live so that we do not have to deal with injustice every day. I think that the answers to the question of which reforms initiated by the government of Maris Kučinskis – compulsory health insurance, competence... will be analysed this year as well. reform... education or tax policy – caused the most serious rejection of Latvian citizens. The first steps of any new government must be to halt the reforms initiated by Mr Kučinski's government in order to completely abolish those which are not in the interests of the majority of Latvian citizens in the near future. I believe that social justice must be an absolute priority for the country. This is the basis for building confidence in the state and its institutions. EXPIRY DATE The Saeima elections received the largest support from Latvian citizens. 167 117 voters voted for it. And this is the best result of the seven parties that entered the Saeima. To ignore these voters, who are citizens of the Republic of Latvia, is not wise in my view. It's just not smart! The formation of a government without the participation of the winner of the elections is a failed process. And yet the situation can be changed. I believe that it is time to introduce and strengthen a new and honest political tradition – to entrust government to the party that won the elections. There is another solution. All parties represented in Parliament shall participate in the executive power in proportion to their number of voters. But this will only happen when some voters want to understand that so-called right-wing central coalitions, which have been in power in the country for more than 25 years, are simply manipulating society through myths and fears of people. I see no reason why the government of Artura Krišjānis Kariņš, the candidate for Prime Minister, should be supported. I call for a 'no' vote. Thank you for your attention. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U17	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U18	The people of Latvia! Members of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! Arthur Krzyani Karin! Before you get roses, I want to give you a rephrased Klāv Elsberg poem, as the Czechs received in Soviet times: “Happy again at the window I laugh, the losers in my plant dance. They know it better than normal, they get it more real.” Arthur Krzyani Karin! Today we will be voting in favour of a lost government, we will be voting in favour of a government that will be led by a party that has lost its election. We will vote for the Prime Minister, who was afraid to start up in the elections, because he believed that his party would lose. We will vote in favour of a government consisting of a minister who has even exceeded Solvita Āboltiņa and has lost so much that the members of the party themselves have deflected him to the last place. And I'm talking about Ilzi Viņķelis. We will vote in favour of the Viņķelis Clan as in Africa, so that the Viņķelis Clan has a job. We will vote for the loser Imants Debtor, who will be your demographic adviser (there is no doubt that he has experience in these matters). We will vote for the loser Juris Pūci, who is morally and politically responsible in the Zolitūdes Maxima case (resigned from the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Economics) and whose family is fed from the fact that they received questionable forms of donations from political businessmen, as the press speaks. ( Internouncing call.) We will vote for the loser, Artis Pabrika, who has to report to the cashier Edgars Jaunupas of the Old Town. ( In between: “Every day! ”) It's laughter.) Your government will also be voted for today by the loser who will be extradited for prosecution tomorrow from your member, Mr Bordan, party. ( Internouncing call.) We will vote in favour of a losing government, where we will not speak an open language, contrary to what is stated in paragraph 183 of the government declaration, which states: “We will ensure the transparency of representation of interests and the transparency of public sector information.” Mr. Kariņš, you were not able to name three priorities of your future government from your head in front of the camera and you were looking for a leaf. You as a foreigner probably do not know Latvia's real policy. In order to make it easier for you to lead this government, I will reveal this real policy to you. Your government will be led by loser Artis Kampars, whose person will be the head of your office. I don't know if you knew it, but the whole Saeima knows it. ( Merry laughter.) Your government will be led by another cashier, Edgars Jaunups, who is now, as we are talking here and planting the government, with listening devices for the famous Martinson detention. You will have a difficult task. You have been in politics since 2002, and all these years, Latvia has lost people. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “You have, shorter! Otherwise these shall not be done away with.'" It's funny. Thank you very much. Your government will be supported by another loser, who not only has lost friendship but will also lose the trust of the people right away. And that's my former fighter, Artus Kaimiņš. ( The intermediates, “Here is the winner! ”) ; “ Ooo!” It's laughter.) We remember... and Jūlija Stepanenko has already mentioned this fact – Artuss Kaimiņš criticised Janis Reira – the former Communist... But I guess Artus's forgotten... It's funny. Impressions. Depp. A. Asheraden: “Stop, the winner Gobzem!” ) Today we will lose... We're all going to lose today. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “Speak alone!” ) We will lose confidence in the Latvian Parliament, we will lose confidence in democracy. And the worst of all – the worst thing that we will lose to get, because another time people lose their eyes. And this moment of truth, unfortunately, also applies to my group members. For you will also lose the trust which the voters have given you. This moment of truth is important for Latvian society to wake up. I am sure that Latvian society will wake up sooner or later with the approval of this losing government. Thank you. ( Some Members are applauding.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U19	Colleagues, we have 12 minutes left for the debate. The debate time is 15 minutes. Mr. Cilevič, are you going to be in 12 minutes? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. B. Cilevičs: “I hope so.” ) Name of Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U20	Dear colleagues, The Cabinet, which we are proposing to approve today, would most precisely be called the capitulation government. Before the elections, the new parties came up with a number of ideas and slogans. Some ideas were obviously naive and unrealistic, several – openly populist, however, there was a burning, a real desire to improve the situation in our country. And within three and a half months of the calamities of the formation of the government, this passion and desire disappeared. The new parties are now ready to give power back to the old parties and agree to play the role of statics in the government led by the old parties. Mr Bordan, the honor to which, as Minister for Justice, you have made an honest effort to combat the mafia of the insolvency administrator. Your party at that time did not allow you to do so. You will now represent another party, but you will work in a coalition with the same old party, which, to put it simply, has been a political "roof" for many years. I'm not going to say the words of my colleague Jušas. Mr. Borden, do you really believe that this time you will be allowed to do so? The OIC system, more precisely, was the afer through which all Latvians, including the low-income, dropped to pay several millions of entrepreneurs, many of whom, to put it mildly, were not too honest. The same people who created it and supported it for several years will now eliminate this system. They or, at best, under their supervision, they also plan to assess the legality of the establishment and implementation of the mandatory procurement component, as stated in the declaration. Well, congratulations again! Mr Zakatistov was keenly opposed to the Coalition Cooperation Council and indeed succeeded in achieving a revolutionary change, as Mr Kariņš told us. The opposition's proposals will now be rejected, not automatically, but after discussion. It's funny. Depp. A. Zakatistov’s intermediate call.) However, the current coalition cooperation agreement states the same – without prior coordination in the Cooperation Council, do not support draft laws submitted by the opposition. What has changed? A bright victory, Mr. Zakatistov! Congratulations! The declarations in several points mention innovation and new technologies. Definitely their support. But how do the makers of the declaration understand this? For example, the section on media mentions Latvian Television and Latvian Radio, but not the word about the public media portal, which is rapidly becoming the leading platform for the distribution of public media content. I think colleagues, you're still living in the 20th century. More than that. You, like at least the last five governments, promise to make public media available in the border area and plan to spend money on building new broadcasting towers. This happens at a time when many European countries end terrestrial broadcasting at all and several more are planning to stop it in the near future. That's your understanding of modern technology? I fear that, with this approach, the only thing we will expect will be the new spent millions on new e-schools and e-health. Municipalities. Many fine words, but basically you want to continue with the same old policy, which is obviously contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. To give municipalities more and more social functions and responsibilities, and to give them an ever smaller source of income, i.e. resources to carry out these functions. Simply put, – if you take the port away from Liepaja Municipality, you will actually take control of the city municipality over more than half of the entire territory of the city. To concentrate more and more resources in the government's hands to then blackmail local governments, to support their own, where government representatives are in power, and to cut down resources on political opponents – it's a system that has been in place since the times of the Šķele. ( Internouncing call.) But every new government continues to develop it. The parties that call themselves liberal are particularly disappointed. Mr Pouce, as far as I remember, you were collecting signatures for the partnership law. For no reason do I see the adoption of this law in the government declaration. ( Internouncing call.) So this was just a means for you to catch votes? Have you decided to give up fully to the national Conservative allies, because the ministerial portfolio is more expensive than the principles? You, as if liberals, have already agreed that Latvia is against the efforts of the UN to put migration policy in order. You have already agreed that our country does not ratify even the innocent Istanbul Convention. You support the eradication of diversity in education, the elimination of binary and minority schools – the school that was formed by the Minister of Education Rainis and with which Latvian officials were proud to be international and spread for many years at all levels. You even agreed that no more than 20 percent of the content of higher education can be taught in English, and at the same time you talked about the competitiveness of Latvian universities at international level. You lacked nausea to return to President Vējonis' purely symbolic proposal to recognise all newborn children who do not have any other citizenship as Latvian citizens. You seem to regard even single children as a safety risk. You call yourself pro-European, but completely ignore the insistence of all international organisations to stop creating new stateless people in Latvia. The Declaration refers to the Moneyval recommendations three times and expresses its commitment to follow them. Colleagues, do you all know what Moneyval is? It is an expert committee of the Council of Europe, which assesses Member States' actions and makes recommendations in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. It is to be welcomed that you have paid so much attention to the recommendations made by this committee. But why do you completely ignore the opinions and recommendations of other similar committees of the Council of Europe, such as the ECRI (European Commission against Racism and Intolerance) or the Consultative Committee of the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities for Latvia? Moreover, you simply hide from the public these committee opinions (for example, on the elimination of diversity in education), as well as the position and recommendations of the OSCE High Commissioner for National Minorities, which were expressed during meetings with several representatives of Latvia. I think that even most Members do not have any information about this. You call yourself liberal, but completely capitalising in front of nationalists, ultraconservators and populists, in fact supporting the urbanisation of Latvia as the only Baltic country and joining the European Union's group of Member States, which openly opposes the principles on which today's European Union is founded. It's a holiday for Mr. Pavulut. Congratulations again! ( Internouncing call.) Of course, you will have important functions in the new government – PR functions. Mr Rinkēvičs, as a foreign minister, a really high-class professional, will form the European face of Latvia and will skillfully explain that we still have a special situation that prevents us from respecting European principles such as respect for diversity or minority rights. Ancient wisdom teaches that good intentions pave the way to hell. I believe that the intentions were really good for you. But the road came as always! We, Members of the Group, will not support this capitulation government. Thank you. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U21	Colleagues, we will obviously continue the debate after the break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, to read the results of the registration as soon as they have been prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U22	Not registered: Member Aldis Gobzems... ( The Room Noise) John Reirs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U23	Thank you. Interruption until 2 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U24	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can continue the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima. On the agenda – the draft decision “On Expression of Trust to the Cabinet of Ministers”. We are continuing the debate. Colleagues! I invite you to take office in the Chamber so that we can continue the debate! Mr Latkovsky, I would be very grateful to you if we could start the work of the Saeima after a break. Name of Member Inga Goldberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U25	Dear colleagues, It has now happened that sittings are on the wrong side, there – behind the big wall, and I can look at the proposed declaration of the government of Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš as a citizen whose life will be affected for the coming years, or as an experienced municipal employee, who should implement a large part of the planned work. I really want to share with you what has come from it. As a resident of the local authority of the European Union's external border, I will continue going to Riga and from Riga with an electric train. It is written in the press that I do not need Ventspils at all. Maybe... Because the project will still be evaluated, possible rail electrification will eventually replace the Daugavpils Airport project, which was promised by almost all parties before and after the elections. So Daugavpils Airport is unlikely to be... and rail electrification – only perhaps. All expectations on the road (Interface: ‘ Which roads?’) ) which the State intends to improve. Funding for this will be found through the transfer of less intensive roads to municipalities without funding, of course. We all have little intensity on the roads. It is to be hoped that not only the small schools but also the children and their parents will be preserved in the border. They have a very great duty to protect the European Union's external borders, to become a safety net. It is time for me to be very proud at this point, but knowing how much we are going to spend on national defence, I feel undervalued. And more. If something happens, I will not go to the optimised hospital. When writing in Latgalian (it is not yet clear which language of Latgalian is going to be the right language, because there is a dispute about it), we will all unite in Latvian. And most importantly, we will finally find out what is happening in Latvia, because new broadcasting towers will be built. Allow me to suggest – maybe it is also worth thinking about content, for example, in the Latvian Television Study Region. One nuance – we have forgotten that technology is developing very quickly. And I have both the Internet and television at my border. For the sake of fairness, it must be said that it is not provided by the public media and that it is costly. I am also honoured that the only region named in the declaration is Latgale. Even before that, we all said loudly that Latgale's action plan or programme needs to be substantially changed if we want to change the situation in the region, but it needs money, of course. Then let us leave everything we have in order to calm down the always dissatisfied Latgale. There will always be something to refer to and say that we are doing more than in other regions. Only all of us know that the truth is completely different. Well, well, let's keep that resident. It's the fault that he didn't leave. How are the municipalities going to be? The long-established declaration of the government of Mr Kariņš contains a number of tasks to be carried out by local authorities in the short term – to optimise the school system, the hospital network, create a family-friendly environment, improve social services, attract private investors, take up road maintenance. And there are also very, very many other tasks. This can be done by strong municipalities with stable funding and, most importantly, by a clear regulatory framework. That is something that this declaration does not promise. On the contrary. Municipalities are waiting for chaos and continuation of ongoing reforms. Moreover – not by completing the initials, but starting from the end. It is planned to reform both the administrative territorial breakdown, which is not even predictable at the moment, and the work of local authorities, to introduce a new law on local authorities and changes in the model of local authorities financing. And all this until the 2021 elections. Ambiosis! But with good motivation, it may be possible to do so. However, there will be problems with motivation as it is intended to strengthen the capacity of municipal authorities. I don't know who the institution is just controlling the municipalities. The future government thus makes it clear that it does not trust and does not see allies among the local elected institutions in the implementation of its plans. I believe that achieving a truly positive change in the country can not be countered by different public administrations, but by cooperating, trusting and working for a common goal. I must admit that I will not be able to vote in favour of the proposed government, and the main reason is not the above. The main reason for this is the process of government formation, which has demonstrated a lack of respect for a large part of society, which I also represent. Finally, I would like to thank Mrs Kučinski's Government for the many good work done and some stability. It's not just my opinion. In the government declaration we are talking about today, I added 26 things before the editor, which are planned to continue. Colleagues, I counted 38 things after the editor... and continues only good things. If the government of Mr Kariņš is still approved today, I wish that those who will be after you find at least 26 good things to continue. Despite the cynicism that often prevails in this Chamber, I will continue to address you'honourable colleagues'! Thank you. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U26	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U27	Dear President, Prime Minister! Colleagues! The government and government work plan or declaration show politicians' professionalism and commitment to work for Latvian citizens. For the benefit of all citizens. Voters expect prosperity, job opportunities, health care and modern education from this Saeima. Yes, too, new politicians, even forgiving a lack of experience. Changes in everything. In the Government declaration, officials of the Cabinet of Ministers demonstrate first those who will be responsible for the implementation of the people's wishes and then those who will do so – the power of the respective officials. With unhindered interest, we awaited the third, time-consuming attempt to create the Cabinet of Ministers and the government declaration. What did we expect? Yes, the ruling group. And the band's nominations really surprised. Not only from finding a place and a job in the Cabinet of Ministers for unelected and unelected people, but also with a new item, the conformity of which is nominated by a personal example causes – the smallest – irony. Perhaps the list of items and denominations will continue to be surprised. Among the potential ministers, there are few who can be called new positions. You've made it. Undoubtedly. But did the voters wait and want to do so? Do Latvian voters deserve to remember the remaining, unforgettable personalities and old style when demanding new policies, the fact that former politicians will take up positions of ministers and high positions in the Saeima? This is how you fulfill your promises. What does the declaration or list of works to do show? This time more should be said: a reflection. By the way, if you want to develop a country, give your people, the people of your country, work, health care and good education. Don't you, ladies and gentlemen? Of course, the government declaration as a kind of literature can also include general phrases, certain slogans, a little populism, so to speak, language specifics. And yet. It's not the whole text. The government declaration may not contain many specific figures, but it must show the actual results to be achieved, either in at least one of the main chapters or areas, and it must set measurable values, work results, so that the responsible ministers themselves and the old advisers can see and voters can see clearly what you have achieved in their lives, at least in terms of employment, health and education. But behind general phrases masterfully, the old school has also hidden dangers. For example? For example, the commitment to increase the budget is free and genuine, which you will deprive of. Some specific works highlight narrow personal interests or ambitions in the bad sense. The position falls out of the desire to use the mandate for political revenge, which would be in line with the taste of a potential official. You will not be surprised if I really hope that education is a priority. And I really hoped to see education as a priority. In the pre-election debate, both the New Conservative Party and the Development/About! are rather passionate! In particular, KPV LV promised cardinal changes, criticising most of the education system. And what can we read in the account of the work to be done? Words in Latvian, also in the Government declaration as a form of literature, show everything, especially the chosen verbs of action, because Latvian is the verbs of action. ‘ Let us continue, ‘Let’s continue, ‘Let’s continue, ‘Let’, ‘Let’, ‘Let’, ‘Let’, ‘Let’, ‘let’, ‘let’, ‘let’, ‘let’s continue to support’, ‘we’, ‘let’s strengthen capacity’, ‘let’, ‘let’, ‘let’s support financial growth’... Yes, there are also some “let’s ensure”. There is no word about the specific figures for the increase in funding, or exactly how much money will increase for education, science, the sport sector and the remuneration of educators. Where are the concrete, economically sound figures? Where can we see an undertaking to comply with the laws already in place, for example, in science? Only said – gradual and regular increase. Should the government not make a clear reference to the figure so that scientists can finally be active in the Latvian economy? Everyone, including the public, supported the renewal of training content and the development and implementation of a new approach to learning content. But what do we find in the description of the work to be done, that is, in the declaration? One very brief sentence: “Let’s continue... “ There is no word about the increase in funding for this area, which is vital for the development of the country, for demographic change, for major reform. Only – “Let’s continue”. Incidentally, not a word about dealing with the current crisis in schools across Latvia, namely, attracting teachers, young teachers, to work in schools now. Yes, there is a phrase or slogan: “Let’s build the prestige of the teaching profession.” But with what means? Strengthening the mentor institution. In a situation where there is no physics, mathematics, chemistry, English, Latvian language teachers in school hours, you will now find more people who give advice?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Do you look forward to the appearance of officials? You will rule! Yes, it is possible that the teachers of English and other foreign languages will not need any more, because you are talking mainly about the local teaching, the fact that all Latvians, even Latvians, are emphasizing changes in education, including the introduction of additional spelling in one region of Latvia (at least until the next local reform and in accordance with the Constitution, there are more of them). By the way, the Satversme at least currently guarantees the right to education for other nationalities in Latvia. But that's not the idea of the work to be done. Another of the pre-election promises was to keep the small schools. Yeah. Obviously, they will only be located at the border, on the side where Latvia has an external border of the European Union. But such schools are also in the middle of Latvia. Moreover, it seems that the number of primary schools is also transparent, in your opinion. I have to admit that you have overcame previous managers in the field of education. Well, the Prime Minister's candidate already represents those who have set things in education for a long time. You are good disciples, but not from the new policy, from innovation in education, nor from modern education, including higher education. Formal changes in the level of bureaucracy of legislation will not increase the competitiveness of education, let alone exports. Not consolidation... and again a long word... promote research and the existence of scientific advice. Education must be given the opportunity to breathe first with the financial availability given in specific figures. It is clear why the declaration mainly refers to the words ‘Let’, ‘Let’, ‘Let’. If the ruling group is led by an old, the smallest party in this Saeima with a lack of experience, then you cannot expect any new policy and targeted work. Education, your name will be derision, destruction, repression and demise. Good luck, and I hope not long! Thank you. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U28	Name to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U29	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, Now we are all familiar with the declaration made by Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš regarding the activities planned by the Cabinet of Ministers. As a doctor and a person who has worked for many years in the Social and Labour Commission, of course, a part of the declaration on health care is of particular importance to me. As can be seen, it is dedicated to general stop points of less than one and a half pages. Dear colleagues, I offer you a look at your party pre-election programs. So many concrete offers and solutions! For example, the offer of the New Unity Pre-election Programme, the proposal was free of charge annual health prevention. A very good offer, which for unknown reasons is not reflected in the government declaration. CPV LV. Of course, the proposal needs to be recast, but it reads as follows: "More funding for family doctors, less bureaucratic burden for family doctors, more professional doctors, more medical time for patients, a healthier society." It is also a very good but recastable proposal, which must be in the government declaration. ‘ Development/About!’ . In particular: "Health care funding should increase to 10 per cent of GDP over 10 years." A very clear and concrete offer with an increase each year. This is not the case either in the government declaration. National association. ‘ The principle that lower-risk patients are treated in high-risk institutions should be introduced, while high-risk institutions are targeted at high-risk patients." The establishment of a Centre for the Evaluation of Health Technologies is also a good proposal. A good proposal, but why it is not reflected, is not understandable either. New Conservative Party. Sorry, your pre-election in the healthcare programme is nothing significant... not only me, but also the government declaration makers... But your idea of taking over ports is to restructure hospitals into public ownership, and I think this will solve the whole problem with financing, with the purchase of technology – all the issues that affect the reform of the health sector, with a view to reducing the number of hospitals. The full declaration of such a defined, concrete proposal could be put to the vote. At present, I cannot support the text of the declaration as abstract and unclear as far as it is concerned, so I will vote against it. Working within the Social and Labour Commission, I have a clear vision that only concrete proposals can solve certain problems. Looking at the above-mentioned party program promises and the directions of the party's SACU programme, I will put forward proposals in this term in various laws, not only to implement what was promised during the SACU election, but also to implement what you promised to your constituents. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U30	The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U31	Highly honored Presidium! Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear colleagues, Mr. Kariņš is definitely a good person, but Latvians have such a saying that a good person is not a profession. Mr Kariņš was Minister for Economics in the past – 2004-2006. In the year 2000, if I am not wrong. It was at that time that the origins of the OIC system, which we already talked about at the previous sitting of the Saeima, were put in place. At the time, Mr. Kariņš, as Minister for Economics, signed a number of documents which then... which were subsequently found to be unlawful and void by judicial procedure. At the time, Mr. Kariņš, as Minister for Economics... the Ministry led by him had to draw up and approve a plan for the economic mobilisation of the government, which was only approved by the opposition in 2013, if I am not mistaken. Among the ministers of the economy were Mr Kampar and Mr Pavlut. The results are what they are. It is good that Mr. Kariņš did not go to Trinidad and Tobago, who were the colonies of the Duke of Kurzeme, otherwise we would have problems... It's good that it was not mentioned how the Swedes conquered Riga, how the Poles danced here... and so on. But what can we read about national security and related problems? What, then, are the people who will implement these security measures? Well, first of all, it must be said that there is no specificity. Again, a person will be appointed as the Minister of Defence, under whose command the armed forces were taken to the clan, and the funding has been reduced. Mr Pabrika, then remember that I called on you, as a defence minister, to increase your funding for the Ministry of Defence to two percent! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (A. Pabrika's intermediate call.) We also voted. You voted against. And all the slogans that are voiced here are not motivated by anything. Let us also remember, Mr. Pabrik, that those rugged armorers that we bought... all of these competitions were held during you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (A. Pabrika's intermediate call.) And the defence industry began to recover only after you left this product. Some progress has begun. If we look at this declaration, we can see that there is a lot of it... in very general phrases. One of the biggest problems in the security system was your, Mr Pabriks, colleague Mrs. Mūrniece, the Minister of the Interior, whose work led the State Police to the clinic, so that until now no one can recover. The only training institution that prepared the law enforcement staff was abolished, but this declaration does not even mention that it should be restored, although 12. The Saeima made a decision that would seem to be compulsory for all the others... the decision that this training institution should be renewed. We should finally also restore science... what concerns the security area... not like everything in the underground now exists... but there is a need for an institution that prepares these materials. Unfortunately, there is no talk about it here. There is no question here about the reduction in the number of police officers, the number of fire-fighters. Yesterday at the meeting of the Baltic Affairs Sub-Commission, representatives of firefighters said that in order for them to be able to perform their functions, they should have an additional 236 posts, which were then eliminated. We got a station inspectors on paper... their area of responsibility is 70 kilometres, from one parish to the other. One parish is located on one side of the Daugava, the other on the other side of the Daugava. The question is, how do they then perform their duties? They are unable to do so. How can you do that?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, And what can we ask of law enforcement staff if they do not have the necessary education if they do not have the best will to do what they should do? It seems that this is a new old government, because I know many of the representatives I have worked with in the Cabinet. Even the same compulsory health insurance. Mrs Steels, I think, remember that the government led by Maris Gail in April 1995 approved and conceptually supported compulsory health insurance. The so - called right - hand governments have been in power for twenty - three years, but so far it cannot be implemented. It could go a long way. What are we proud of regarding migration? I am also talking about this in the previous Parliament. We are proud that there are harsh weather conditions in Latvia and therefore migrants do not want to stay here. We are silently applauding those shoppers of the Latvian state for which Latvia is a poor country and we cannot support migrants. In silence, we are pleased that the coalition of Iran, Turkey and Russia has destroyed the Islamic State, which has led to a decrease in refugee flows to Europe. That's what we're talking about. But what do we do or do? And is there any prospect of achieving and improving? I thought so, and such an interesting analysis... Every government has had its own bank that has to be dissolved! There was Parex banka – a state-granted bank with 250 million... I apologize, with one billion. As a result, Citadele sold the bank for 70 million. Very good business. Then there was the Latvijas Krajbanka – for another government. Now ABLV Bank, for which methodological recommendations cannot be approved for seven months, and quietly one another from government-makers also hopes that instead of self-liquidation, we will achieve liquidation. Then the Mafia of the Court Administration or the bailiffs will be active again and will be able to put some yawn in the pocket. There is much to go on about what has been promised and what has not been done. The question is where are we going? Do we justify the expectations we have left society – that we will create a new policy, a new sense of security and so on? No, I'm sorry. I do not see this in any way in the government declaration. I was surprised... Tuesday was the commission meeting... to be correct, Wednesday. We listened to specialists on the situation of money laundering in Latvia. With pride it was announced that nine billion euros of non-residents' money had flowed from Latvia in the last year. Listen to me! Not all non-residents' money is illegal and dirty. Yes, it must be controlled, but we must take care of the control mechanism and bring the perpetrators to justice. However, when you start asking questions about the state, how much pay is paid, and whether the specialists are able to cope with the amount of work they have been assigned to... No, no! What are we talking about? They are very beautiful phrases. As I said, Mr Kariņš, both you and many of your potential ministers are good people, but unfortunately this is not a profession. Finally, I will quote Ojar German, who has a very good four-line line: “You can be harder than the iron itself, and yet you will be invisible and small, unless you stand in the place of your life where you need it most.” I believe that Mr. Kariņš is not in the right place. Go to the European Parliament. Don't mix the air here! Thank you. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U32	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U33	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! A few days ago or a week ago, my party member Roman Justt made his message public on the social network, his speech to the party members. And, by the way, there he spoke of politicians in the past, as well as politicians in the present and future. The politicians of the past, whose words we call streets and boulevards, such as Chakste and Meierovics today. And he asked such a rhetorical question – do we imagine that one day a street, a cross, a boulevard or a square will be named, for example, in the name of Aigars Kalvitis or Solvita Āboltiņa? ( Internouncing call.) At first, I smiled at it, but then I thought about it, and now I think a little bit about it. Because it seems as if it is clear to everyone what the answer is, although maybe it is not... We all remember that we had streets and squares named, for example, in the name of August Kirchenstein. Although I have finished the Riga French Lice - and technically this is the case - I actually studied the 11th high school in Riga named after the French Communist. And what do I mean by that? I think that what we call our streets and boulevards, schools and everything else will depend on whether we together protect our country in the future, the generation after us. But not only. It will also depend on whether we protect our moral values. For if we do what we do today, then we have every chance to expect in the near future, let us say, John Reir's promenade in a new or old city. And that sarcasm is so conditional. Oto von Bismarks once said that politicians are thinking about the next elections, but public officials are thinking about the next generations. Unfortunately, here today, we are introducing even a third category under the word ‘political’ in addition to these two. I don't know what it's called. Because there is now no single person in this room who does not even think about the next elections, who is thinking about existing criminal proceedings and whether or not he will have a mandate in the near future. Not just thinking... But to some extent this government is built around it – about mutual promises in this regard. We will see this soon. This is something we see today. I don't know if it's possible to land below! I would also like to take the opportunity to address Prime Minister Māra Kučinska, who knows that I have criticised him a lot, and to apologize in some way. ( Milestones.) Because what's going to be... I cannot imagine that tomorrow I will regret that you are not Prime Minister. ( Merry laughter.) But this time will not be long – it is good news. This time will not be long. And that darkest part of the night is before dawn. I will remind everyone that tomorrow will be a new day, tomorrow there will be a new Saeima sitting. And at that parliamentary sitting there will be a very important question among other issues. ( From the UK Group: “Apologies! ” ) The question will be about it tomorrow – let us try to define what the uncompromising rule of law is. ( Internouncing call.) Tomorrow! And then we will try to define what is responsible for action, and decide whether the Saeima needs to take a decision that concerns the members of the Saeima themselves... on criminal proceedings... and let us talk about whether we will change the parliamentary roll or not. The Prime Minister's press secretary, Andrejs Vaivars, just came to me in between and said: "Look, Didzis, you'll ever tell your children – well, I could be a minister, but I wasn't a minister." I wanted Andrejs... You must have been somewhere in the hall... didn't get to answer... I wanted to answer that it is much more important for me how I will feel when my children saw that I had to make important decisions and when I was able to make them, I had acted in accordance with my conscience, my conviction and my own principles. In fact, this is the only chance – to hope that my children will ever do the same thing in life, because they do not have to raise children, they have to raise themselves. They will still do the same for you. I am not calling for the views of someone to be changed today, because that is pointless. I know that the parties have contracts between the parties and everyone with their conscience... you will vote as it will... but I call on especially young Members... I don't only think of the younger, but the long young... remember why you are here, what mandate was given to you, what goals you set. May all of us not only look to our children, but to all future generations, to say that we did our best at our time so that the country in which they all lived in front of us would be better than what we received. And let them continue. If they do it, our country will flourish and our gold. I call on all of you to meet here tomorrow and try to define the basic concept of the rule of law. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U34	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U35	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! In my opinion, voters in this election quite clearly said that this is, however, the Saeima which should think about a new policy, and we must all think together today about what is then the people who represent the new policy. In this case, Mr. Karin, however... I'll repeat today... I was still in school at the time when... In 2002, you entered politics with the New Age, with Einars Repši. Unfortunately, you cannot be covered by this new politician's designation. Experienced – yes, it can be said. However, that is not what voters from the Members who voted in this Saeima wanted... In any case, I cannot say the same thing about Mr Bordan, because 1994 was the time when you stood in this tribunal, spoke to the voters and supported some kind of policy. You are by no means a symbol of the new policy. If it looks objectively, the only ones who are currently offering a new policy are the KPV LV Group, because really all ministers are young, and I really very much hopefully look at how they will go. I think there will be a completely new perspective. For the rest of the ministers, I would refrain from saying this. With regard to the work to be done, which is the government declaration... A number of Members told me about promises, commitments, and now I want to remember Einars Repsche's winged saying: "How can you not do that?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. “ Unfortunately, this government declaration does not even make any promises. They were until October 6, and then disappeared. Well, we all have to admit... This document contains conclusions. But I think... in this document appears to me that the first work really, as Mr Schmidt mentioned before me, is an uncompromising rule of law. What are we... Is that so? One question – what we will do tomorrow, another question that can already be read in the press – about how we will try... Well, somebody's trying to save the Member... whether those Members who could potentially be extradited will, however, try to retain their mandate in some way in the Saeima so that they can function fully. Is this the uncompromising rule of law that we have promised voters? I think no, and on this point, I can assure you, there will be a very hot debate from this troupe, there will be very different opinions, and all this will have to be justified. The next thing I see here is regional reform. And this is the whole of this government declaration – I really think that it has been written by people who are mostly Rigans; that it has been written from the point of view of Riga. Because as far as the regions are concerned, we can only see that in the regions of people, the people of Latvia... You're saying you're gonna fight... with municipalities... You are actually saying that you will fight against those people of Latvia who live outside Riga. The only one who is the winner here – I think that this declaration could be read with pleasure by Nils Ushakovs. For indeed Riga will have a flower time. For the rest of Latvia at such a time... Well, there will be some difficulty. Mrs Goldberga also mentioned this very precisely: to give the road maintenance to municipalities without providing funding, which means that we simply write down these road sections, they will simply not... Nothing will be done with them. And this devastation is not for the first time. This shocking population in terms of regional reform has always been the case. And in history, we can see what happens at the time of regional reforms. That is a loud question. And it sounds loud not only from politicians, but also from society, from people living in the places you are going to decide on. At the same time, public attention can turn away from other issues that are already more economical. And in this regard, I am looking at the next thing that really concerns me in this government declaration. I think we all need to recognise that privatisation in Latvia is over. And we should not try to open up the debate on the privatisation of strategic assets. If you look at the previous experience of the Minister of Transport... I see that you have really very good experience with capital companies, with the privatisation of state assets, with the Privatisation Agency. You've been an assistant general to the government during the chain. It was at the time when the largest assets were privatised. I think this process must stop. No such assets have taken place since I was a member of the Saeima... There were thoughts, there were various ideas, but there was no privatisation of any strategic assets. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (A. Neighbourhood sub-scenario) If we look at specific things, then I think the future of ports will be a very serious issue. I call on everyone to go into it. Is that really what we want – to pass it on to the private sector? ( The box “Nemo! ”) ) As well as road operators of Latvia... I myself was Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport. I remember all these talks about the very high interest of businessmen and the need for this company to be privatised, but at the same time we... It must be understood that by doing so, there will be a huge monopoly, which can stand against the state at once. And the country will no longer have any tools to ensure in any way that its main roads are cleaned in winter. That's one thing. Next. Of course, the signature of the ZZS Members is not here... What's that called? That is no longer the coalition Treaty; it will now be some kind of cooperation agreement. Let us now hope that this will solve the problems of all Latvians. But at the same time, I think we green farmers will be a constructive opposition. That is why I do not want to criticise. Now you're just starting to work. And I really sincerely wish you luck in this work, but I would also like to offer my vision in a particular area that has not appeared in this declaration. This is why I will turn to KPV LV, which will be supervised by these two ministries, the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Welfare. More recently, our “dangerous neighbour” suffered a huge disaster: a gas cylinder exploded and a whole house collapsed. In my opinion, in terms of housing problems, there is now a situation in Latvia that if it is built... as was the government declaration... 1000 new dwellings... even five or 10 thousand, it will not solve the problem of the old housing fund, which is very, very worn out at the moment. I therefore call on these two ministers to sit down and really constructively talk about moving housing policy from the Ministry of Economic Affairs to the Ministry of Welfare, because it is already a social problem rather than an economic one. With economic solutions, we see... the technical condition of these dwellings... go to any district and see what its home looks like! They cannot be renewed with economic instruments; solutions in the social sphere must be considered. This, in my opinion, is an already strategic vision of the new policy that you could speak out. Finally, I would like to say a great deal of thanks to Maris Kučinskis, but Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš would like to wish... At one point, the premiere ends. Of course, it cannot be eternal, but at a time when you will end, that people really come and say from this troupe that there are many things they are going to keep going, that there are thanks for the excellent cooperation of colleagues and partners, and that you can look back on well done works. I call on my colleagues to vote today, as it is written in the Constitution – by conscience. Thank you for your attention. ( The ZZS fraction is full.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U36	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U37	Madam President, Colleagues! Today, we are being proposed to approve a government that is at the forefront of a double citizenship politician. Personally for me, Mr. American origin is rather a positive sign, and not just because the American firm Kroll will advise on the liquidation of ABLV Bank in the future. I am pleased by the American origins because it was the US that established human rights for its citizens at the time, as well as the high standards of respect for the rights of racial and national minorities. Liberal society, as well as the media, are highly and momentarily criticised by President Donald Trump, but black Americans and descendants of Jewish, Chinese, Indian and Arab families are working in the current US government. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Ribena’s intermediate call.) Since ancient times, when Americans were still fighting for independence from Britain, one of their slogans was “No taxes without representation!” . Mr. Karins, tell me how many minority representatives will be in your government? Nobody. It shows at least your indifference as a politician with regard to the equality of Latvian citizens. Today our discussion is followed by representatives of NATO national embassies. In this high troubling, I claim responsibly that a society that does not respect the political rights of national minorities cannot be stable. How can Latvia be a reliable NATO partner if systematic and institutional exclusion of minorities makes this country the weakest link of the North Atlantic Alliance? Speaking of a hybrid war... you are not doing anything to even increase Latvia's fame, community confidence in the authorities. The country has no good will and empathy. Naturalisation is almost stopped. And how else can it be that the difficult issue of minorities has long been referred to the National Association, whose main goal is to extort almost one third of Latvia's population's native language from Latvia? We will remember the points of reference of various anniversary related to the centenary of Latvia. On 8 December 1919, the People's Council approved the Law on the Educational Institutions of Latvia and the Law on the Structure of Minorities Schools in Latvia. Due to these documents, minority school systems developed in the Republic of Latvia, where Russian, German, Jewish was used as a learning language. But instead of solemnly celebrating this achievement of the democratic republic, which is the signature of the father, Jānis Čakste, our country will actually abolish minority education in the next school year. I have a question for the candidate for the post of Minister for Education and Science, Mrs Šuplinska: tell me how you appreciate the activities of your county manager Jānis Rainis, who as Minister for Education, 1926-1928. In 1996, promoted minority schools in Latvia in every way? Perhaps it is time to remove a poet and a governmentist from his postage, if you are about to destroy education in minority languages? The Karina Government promises an uncompromising rule of law. Dear friends, I will immediately tell you how I met the candidate for the Minister of Justice. I remember perfectly that on 7 November 2003, a police unit appeared in the newspaper Vesti Segodnja. And it was led by no one else than John Bordan. At the time, the current candidate for the Minister of Justice seemed to defend copyright with regard to computer programs. In fact, his goal was to stop the free word, to strangle the Russian community's protests against school reform. Those computers were returned to journalists two years later. In the multinational republic, some supporters of avant-tourism policy want to build a “police state”. Is this power possible in the European Union in the 21st century? Our country can become a European shame if the structures of the Latvian forces continue to persecute and arrest political opponents. It turns out that by their own actions, civil servants grow and maintain an audience for propaganda that is hostile to the Constitution of Latvia. Seven years ago, during an interview, Playboy Kariņš announced: “We need Russians who grow here to grow into Latvians. We need to understand that integration leads to assimilation, and that must be our goal – to assimilate their children." And I do not see that the candidate for the Prime Minister has changed his opinion in any way. Of course, two or three percent of the gross domestic product can be spent, but Matthew chapter 12 says: “Jesus said to them when he disobeyed their thoughts: ‘ Every kingdom in which hatred is in itself perishs, and no city or house in which hatred is in existence. If Satan blows out Satan, then he's hateful of himself. How can his country exist?" “ The only thing that comforts me is that Karin’s government will be a very temporary government. But even in these circumstances, I will not vote for you. Thank you. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U38	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U39	Co-humans! Today I heard the words “new”, “new government” and “fest”. No, there is no festival today and nothing is born! Today, there is a funeral because the voices of the voters who wanted to change are buried. Today, the promises made by political forces to people are buried – promises of economic breakthrough, reduction of ministries and reduction of poverty. We see a new level of political betrayal and the submission of newcomers to the old order. I heard the words of the new Prime Minister... the word ‘order’ expressed by the candidate for the position of Prime Minister. This word has a bitter aftertaste, very bitter. What about the financial sector? And then who will take care of the sector? A candidate for the post of Minister for Finance, who has appointed his advisor to the fast-roofing brilliant man who has quickly "rerouted the suitcases"? That's great! Next. It's exactly during this person's time... Since 2010, the budget and financial (tax) commission has been running and since 2014 the Ministry of Finance has been managing the shadow economy by one percentage point each year. One percentage point – it is about a billion withdrawn from the economy, which serves a certain... financial interests of certain groupings – perhaps the interests of Mr Martinson and your colleagues. ( Internouncing call.) I therefore believe that this government is a government of hypocrisy and duality. And I express my deep sympathy to all of us. Thank you. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U40	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U41	Hello! Dear President, Honourable Members! I try to look at the declaration of the future government in practice and also in the context of the development of our country and economy. The well-being of society is developing in two main coordinates: it is a rise in gross domestic product and it is a reduction in social inequalities. Inability in one or the other inevitably undermines the welfare of the people. The European Union is currently in an active discussion on the future application of a compact, or Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union. The Treaty is the legal basis for a strict austerity policy, an agreement that undermines active fiscal policy, thus hindering economic development. This policy takes money out of the economy, and it is particularly painful at a time when the country is leaving the crisis. It is precisely because of this policy that the European Union's exit from the crisis was much faster than in the United States. This policy maintains a stagnating trend in the economies of the Member States of the European Union now, so last November, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs of the European Parliament rejected the European Commission's proposal for a fiscal compact integration into the law of the European Union. Meanwhile, the future government is going to reverse its financial policy. The quote: ‘The work of the government... will be based on strict fiscal discipline with a view to building surpluses in the state budget’. End of quote. However, what is the basis on which the authors of the declaration believe that this policy has a lively impact on economic development? Such confidence has already been tried by Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis, who is responsible for Latvia's success stories, to take the big money that will come down to Latvia as soon as fiscal compact indicators have been achieved. Perhaps in the hope that when we sit on the shores of the Baltic Sea, we will expect the financial markets to come to us and build a new VEF, a new wagon factory, a new semiconductor plant in the Republic of Latvia. It hasn't happened, there is no investment boom, and it would be strange if it were to happen. Cause – the big money is not invested in business projects, the big money is invested in markets. The Latvian market is shallow, small, and with the current policy it is not possible to attract large investments. If it really put a strain on economic development and prosperity... You've been decided... increase public investment, i.e. to invest in the share capital of state-owned enterprises, to set up new enterprises. As early as 2008, the World Bank produced a growth report which concluded that, in order to reach the European level of prosperity of a country such as Latvia, it has to double its income in one generation. This growth is driven by gross domestic product growth – carefully! - seven per cent per year for at least 20 consecutive years. This rate of growth would be ensured if the total level of investment in the country reached 30 per cent of gross domestic product every year, including total private and public investment. But what about the declaration? "Let us ensure that public support instruments focus on automation, R & D, digitisation, process optimisation, energy efficiency and export". This paragraph could be included in the declaration made by any previous government after the restoration of Latvia's independence. Nothing will change! This is an option, and so I simply conclude that the future government is not even thinking or expecting about public investment. Latvia needs a new vision of the new economic growth mechanisms that are possible in the era of the free market. The authors of the government declaration do not even try to name them. Second co-ordinate: reducing social inequalities. What do voters tell us about what the Ombudsman warns in his reports? On poverty. It takes power and the future away from the country – emigration. Data from the Central Statistical Administration show that the proportion of the population at risk of poverty has increased over the past year, in 2017. Mr Kariņš, your declaration does not even contain the word poverty. Enter the search tool in your text and you will not find this name there! But what does increasing the risk of poverty mean? This does not mean that fellow citizens have become poorer as a result of a fall in purchasing power. This means an increase in the gap between those with a low income and those with a high income. People experience a sense of poverty when comparing their quality of life with the quality of life in the rest of the country. And this comparison is measured primarily in monetary terms. World countries have been reducing social inequalities since the end of the 19th century by implementing the principle of progressive income taxation. The declaration by the future government on the progressive tax has no word either. Decorative measures at the place of reform – this is not a matter of working style. It's not just a matter of working style. The future government simply does not want to pursue a new policy, which Latvia is waiting for and which the future coalition politicians promised. That is why I will not support this government and I call on you to do not support it either. Thank you. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U42	Name to Member Ivan Ribakov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U43	Thank you. Dear Saeima! After the elections, my constituents often asked me: 'Mr Ribakow, can you explain what this is: "new policy"? We have heard so much about this from the newly elected Members, from the new parties!” Of course, I did not have the answer right away. I replied: there will soon be a parliamentary sitting in which we will hear Mr Kariņš, in which we will read the new government declaration and, I guess, I will get an answer to that question. What do I see today? I also listened carefully to Mr Kariņš, waiting for the ministerial candidates to explain to me here and I will understand, but it seems that everything will remain as it has been so far. Mr. Valains has already reminded us of this saying: “How can you not go?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ On the one hand, there are lies... Well, apologies, promises. All the parties come with concrete promises... There are concrete promises, with certain responsible persons, on several pages, but, as I understand, we can throw all these promises into the waste and forget about them. Why? Because the declaration unfortunately... Well, not close... is not as written on those pages. Of course, I... as you understand, I cannot under any circumstances support this government (Dep. A. Neighbours: “You can’t even!” ) because my constituents will not understand. You should at least have entered your promises directly in the declaration. Thank you. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U44	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U45	Hello, honourable Chairman of the Saeima, colleagues! Yesterday I had a plan to analyse the declaration made by the government of Mr Kariņš, especially in the field of welfare and housing policy, but then I watched the future candidate for the Minister, Minister of Education and Science, Mr. Ilga Šuplinska's presentation in the Order Roll and learned... Mrs Šuplinsk said clearly and clearly there that the declaration by this government is just a declaration; it is not yet a plan of action, because it will only be in a month's time... And God or the devil knows him what more miracles will be revealed in it. But looking at the government's staff... Why does this government have no room for my colleagues – top-class professionals? Vjačeslav Dombrovskis, Lubova Svekov, Evia Papulei, Inga Goldberga, Vitalis Orlova, Andrejs Clementyev... You think it would be a worse government than the one you are trying to create at the moment? I mean, much better. When considering the composition of the members of the government of Mr Kariņš, it is clear to any normal public administration specialist that the absence of SASCAN top-class professionals in this government is only a fear of competent political competition, nothing else. The visions of the Kremlin's hands and legs are just a way of excluding the strong and united team from any possibility of helping our country out of economic stagnation and social inequalities that make people leave their homeland. On 6 October last year, Latvia was waiting for 13. The results of the parliamentary elections, I took part in one of the live broadcasts and said in it that, in my opinion, our country is now facing a major challenge. And the challenge is how much the old ruling elite, who has already entered history with a shameful stain under the name OIC, will be ready to share power and influence in the processes with the new political forces, who have not measured themselves in government, and with the powers, with those who started with a desire for change. Because people in Latvia and countrymen abroad gave a clear and clear signal – the way in which the Latvian state has been governed so far can no longer continue. There were elections from the old ruling elite in the new Saeima, as if only feathers remained, but nothing again the same old elite – as it were, will be in power! Because, as the future Prime Minister said, he is counting on 61 votes in the Saeima today. And now there will be a long quote: “CONJUNCTION is something difficult to understand in the political spectrum. In recent times, there has been internal stress associated with the desire to attract national voters, which is why there is a "blank" in the direction of national conservativeism. I can no longer see anything right in this party, not even a bear centre.” You have, of course, already mentioned who the author of this quote is. That's right, Daniel Pavlut. I will continue with a quote from the same interview of Mr. Pavluta for Day on 26 April 2018. He believed in cooperation with the UNYANNITY, but during the negotiations, he discovered that the UNYANNITY was only interested in “our young, “undivided” people in politics” so that they would “develop their facade, but do not really want to change anything. CONNECTION is convenient as it is at present.’ End of quote. That's right, Mr. Pavilut. Thank you, because you hit the tenth! But today it is with you, “Development/About!” With your own, KPV LV, and with your, UK, new, policy for currently “unmeasurable” people, your own hands are setting up a façade of old policies. But by nature, neither the New Unity nor the National Association want to change anything because it is convenient for them. And it is about ensuring this nothing and convenience for the old ruling elite that will be the result of this vote today, because neither Latvia nor its people will be able to enjoy any of the conveniences of this ruling elite. And a small post scriptum for women's solidarity. As was known for the media, the Prime Minister's candidate, Mr Kariņš, asked about the future presence of Linda Liepiņa, who is Chairman of the Saeima's Committee on Petitions, said that it would not be surprised if there were any changes in this regard, as well as questioning that there should be a Member of the opposition. This is how far the “smart” and “democratic” changes are needed for the future Prime Minister of the New Unity, whose government you, 61, are going to vote on today! ( Internouncing call.) Remove Liepaja from the post of Chairman of the Request Commission – on what? That she managed to support Zarina's request for OIC? For demanding political responsibility from ministers? You know, Linda, you're crazy! ( Internouncing call.) And just like you, like some of your fellow Members and like all our group, I will vote against this government today, and I call on the other Members to do so, who do not want to play a role in the decoration of the old political facade. Thank you. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U46	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U47	78 days... You come home, and your beloved woman asks you: “Artus, why are you so anxious all the time? What is that... So how's care? Why are you concerned?” And it was 78 days ago. Then there was the first round of government building with Mr Bordan at the forefront. These speeches, which have been heard here for more than two hours today, have, in my opinion, been staged, written earlier and are the same. The extent to which the declaration is bad, the cooperation agreement is unnecessary, incorrect and so on. Absolutely unacceptable to me is how... Some complimentary you're here... Mr Valaiņš, you now know which party you are from – from the ZZS. Because you often change them. There was the Zatler Reform Party, there was a Unity... Now you're ZZS, huh? Thank you for your advice to our ministers. But I think when the Bureau and I shared the seats of this Saeima Members in November... Mr. Dzintari was... Mrs. Moore, you were also... In my opinion, we have been divided very well – here is the FAILURE and the ZZS... There's a position here. ( Internouncing call.) We have done it right. I have a lot of people in my last 130 days. Thank you very much. ... The last 130 days have been refuting it... asked where I'm missing, why I don't tell what's going on, and why I don't show events in the Saeima with my camera. What's going on? I don't have to tell you that. You people here, you know that. Even from A SOUND. You all know that. Don't know it there... Where are the cameras... those who are then watching. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Agešin: “Speak! ” ) They do not know. ( Insight: “On the subject! ”) ) And we are in an unconvinced situation. 78 days ago, a government was started – it failed. I'm also on the red lines. I personally speak here, not on behalf of the Group's CPV LV, but on my own behalf. I am really opposed to the FAO Government, just as the UK is against the FAO Government. The UK failed this time of their Prime Minister, then our Prime Minister came. But there's one small remark. I understand very well that you can and should love a woman. And that woman needs to be loved so that... mad! That's funny! But you can't love power. I can love – it's not right! It took another 50 days. When one day came to work, I learned that one of our coalition parties... potential partners of cooperation have been discarded, so to speak, from this round out. ‘ Development/About!’ - All right! I learned it from Delphi, believe me! There's some fish left. Mathematics... Count what you want, something doesn't work. At the fractional meeting, I asked for UK representatives to come and tell our group that they would not work with the STECF in one coalition. Was that so? ( To be discussed against the Bureau.) Sign up, huh? It was. Call me out of the drug! It took a couple more days. We started with a technocratic government with all those professionals that were just named by the previous speaker... Regina, you're from a BIG. We also learned about these candidates... We also learned from the political group, our members also learned, our party representatives also learned... from the Internet. When it didn't happen... and now I turn to you, “Development/About!” Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. After all, you received an application from the then candidate for our Prime Minister to form a government... Mr. Bondara... In Mr Bondara's premiere, by removing the UK? ( Interface: “There were calls like this! ” ) Was that the case? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Paviluts: “Gobzem called!” ) There was such a thing. Gobzem called. There was a thing. It was still... Mr. Karins, you don't know what... and you're only coming now. Only now is 27 December. It was before! When I fall in love with that... And then Mr. Karin's candidacy comes. You think I'm glad that the Unity, which really has a slant from this pub with my words, is not a joke... I don't want to be in your place... the same as the STECF has received. Yes, Mr. Reira, come on... I am not going to depart from my words – you are a Communist! Still! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Reira’s synopsis.) While you're alive, you're going to be a Communist, well, forgive me! There is only one Communist in this government, and it is Reir at the moment. There were three. It was Duklav... Hello, Mr. Duklav! It was Rasnacz and it was Reir. We had 33 Communists! Here, previous, 12. In the family... There are now fewer than nine of them. Here! ( Internoint.) It's laughter.) And do you think that's not progress? I have been silent for 130 days only, so that we can establish a working government. I didn't go out, I didn't tell people, and I didn't want to throw them out. I understand very well that some full - month colds are still very strong at the moment. ( Intercretion: “You can see it! ” ) Yesterday, when you see Nanozolas at the Saeima door (Laughter) ... Because, as it was a full month, it always came here at Nagornosol. And it was, Mrs. Moore! (Laughter) When I see Nanosol, when I see Zhdanook, and when I see Gobzem... (Laughter) For the will of the people? Then, please split this concept into a nation! We divide this concept between the people! This is very, very important, because in this case we have been given responsibility, in this case, the KPV LV is really not the happiest party with the ministers who come into our history. That is not the case! But if you tell me... or... Well, if we so modulate the situation that, let's assume, the plant still gets something of its own... The Ministry of Transport... Well, whatever... he could be in any ministry, I think... Of course, but. But what comes instead? Brigman? And how will you then explain to the public that the Saeima still has Brigmanis, who has finally been chosen out of it, after which hundreds, thousands of years? ( Merry laughter.) Do you understand? In this case... And here I... Mrs. Viņķele, I'm not your fan! And you're not my fan! But then it's better for Viņķelis than for Brigman. It's funny. Thank you very much. Imposition: “How do you know?” ) If we are talking about new ministerial posts, we do not have new ministries. We don't! They offered us, they wanted us. No, no! Mr. Kariņš, with all the demographics – all the luck! Good luck! It's your advisor... and so on. We can be honest to our constituents... I can tell you honestly – I have received many llamas (in the last days in particular): “Neighbourhood, what are you doing? How can you with the old government... Is that so? Who are you?” And so on. I think it is even more difficult for my party members to deal with all this. But you have to explain why to people. What are the options? If the Karina is not approved, then what will happen next? Think of what will happen next. I think you all know very well here. ( Milestones.) And now we're going to get there – what happens next? There would be an extraordinary election next. What could potentially be won by extraordinary desires in this breakdown? What do you think? When they express compliments to each other from here... This is where the speakers who are there... ( Intercretion: “The neighbor of the President! ” ) And that will be the case! It's funny. Thank you very much. See, I think... My view is that this possible emergency election process will be eliminated today. ( Internouncing call.) I am convinced that, in the extraordinary elections, the party will get more votes than in these elections. ( Intercretion: “Rightly! ” ) I am also convinced that the ZZS represented by Aivars Lembergs would also get more votes, because I would say that the new but nothing... that doesn't know how to work, 110 days they're just doing nothing... Don't do it. ( Intercretion: “Rightly! ” ) Well, see. Golden words! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Dombrovskis’ intermediate call. I really don't, Vjačeslav, have to be afraid of my non-election and so on. The question is, am I going to want this again? But it's about 150 days... 109 days – 109 days! – such rubber pulling without budgets, without all... As an economist, Vjačeslav, you know very well what's going on with all Moneyval... I don't want to repeat. For you, this declaration is half-empty at all times. ( Internouncing call.) That declaration is like a glass. It's half full here. We've set our goals where we're going. Yes, I agree, there are not many things written specifically there, but there is a direction to which we are going. I wish our new ministers, especially from my group, from the CPV LV, endurance. Ralph Didn't die, endurance! Sandy-Girgen, endurance! Ramona Petraviča, endurance! This will be a very difficult time for us. We're really going to be hit because we're really inexperienced in this huge political battle... with all the rules that do not exist! There are no rules! And that's why, today, this madness is also... I believe that this will end, and that is right. And anyone who comes now and tries to say that the will of the people... Please formulate the will of the people! Perhaps it is a will of the people, bought in Facebook for money. It may not even be a nation, but it is some sort of troll. I'm walking on the street every day. I think maybe also for Development/About! go on a street every day. Are you going down the street, National Association? People come to you, ask – what's going on? I'm coming. I'm really coming. I don't like we've been so much indignant! Mr. Karins, this will not be an easy exercise for you! You will really have to deal with this all. And I can't say I'm such a cuneiform for your fan. But all the things that were named today – you are, in principle, the only one who could pull them through now, pull them out to the end. Otherwise, it is really very dangerous in Latvia. You have a very important backpack on your shoulders. We'll help you! ( The utterance: “Time! ”) ) Time is good. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Agešins: “Tell me about the declaration!” (Laughter) We promised our constituents the suspension and termination of the OIC, and this is the case in the declaration. We promised our constituents both a reduction in the price of prescription and non-prescription medicines, and this is also there. We promised our constituents different decisions that they could not come up with something... Let's call it... I don’t know, I need or I don’t need it (Interface: “Sustainable!” ), but let's take Latvia's greatest disaster, in my opinion, Mr Lembergs, and influence in some way the decisions made in the Saeima on Thursdays. The coalition cooperation council as such is no longer there. We have kept our promises (interfaces between Members of the Group). - And... the more I speak, because... You see – the true culture will be here. If we talked here before and there was always a tomb silence, now it will be that there will always be a shout from here. Get used to the fact that you don't hear yourself! It's normal. But we need a government. This is the only solution that can and must be implemented. It's enough to stir up the community! Tell me this is for him, it's for him who's got microphones arranged by the devil who knows where... I'm tired of those games, I'd finally like to smile. And Mr. Schmidt... ( The utterance: “Time! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U48	Mr. Neighbours, your debate is over! Do Members have reservations if a Member would unite the two times of the debate? There is no objection. You can speak by combining... ( The box “Yes! ”) ; “No!” ) And objections? Please call me! Let us vote in favour of a Member to speak, bringing together the two times of the debate. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 65, for - 14, for - 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U49	Mr. Krishyan...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U50	Dear colleagues, Wait a minute, Mr. Neighbours! Members Pavļuts, Strīķe, Dzintars, Zakaitistovs, Latkovskis, Augulis and Zarins ask to continue the Saeima sitting without interruption until the agenda examination. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. We are continuing the debate. Please continue, Mr. Neighbours.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U51	About this vote, Artur Krišjāni Karin, will also be your approval, I think, of the Prime Minister. On the other hand, on my group's members... I cannot imagine how we will go to the voters and say: now the position is being spoken, well stop, move, and now the opposition is speaking. As we will talk to them, I can't imagine. We're gonna have to make a decision on this... But I'm sure we're doing the right thing. I've heard a lot of things. I've heard that I've been put in some place like a stick, that somebody has taken me behind the hair, threatened... anything. In 109 days, you learn a lot about yourself. For simple silence works miracles. Mr. Smith, your concern here is... I really am surprised by Mr. Jušas that he has missed Mr. Neighbour, that he first comes out as... Well, that commission of Mandate, ethics and application. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Jurash laughs.) Let's see! But I think it's a normal thing – to change the Rules of Procedure by... the proportionality of the penalty. The proportionality of the penalty. ( Milestones.) That's accurate. And even then... But this... even then make a decision. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (D. Schmit’s intermediate call.) But it is not an adequate punishment, and neither is it in any way an argument for what you say. Mr. Schmidt, you dropped your cards on the ground two days before you had to talk about OIC, even though you had the greatest talk and the greatest knowledge about it. You dropped these cards down! ( Internouncing call.) And we picked them up. ( Internouncing call.) And don't talk to the grass. This is what I say – instead of the Moorier – to myself. (Laughter) Thank you very much. Let's have a common sense, let's start this new... I'm working fast! Mr. Kariņš, I hope you will, so to say, contact 24/7. We will be able to talk to you about a variety of issues, because there will certainly be questions. A new working style, I hope, will also be. At least we will ask for it from our side. And everything else is to be done... Absolutely. And you are very good opponents. And strong opponents are good because they make you stronger. Good luck! Mr. Karins, good luck! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U52	We are continuing the debate. It is good that during the debate the Members themselves are also calling on themselves. The name of Member Aldi Gobzem, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U53	This summer, Member Artus Kaimiņš called me and asked: “Are I going to Baltezer to celebrate Ligo’s festival?” I said, “Do what you want.” Later, it turned out that Member Artuss Kaimiņš met Mr. Gobiņš, who is known to be the Meroni cashier and Mr. Kampar. Later in the summer... And there were four more people in that conversation without me, and there was no Artus... And there was Artus in it... Artuss Neimins offered the... We didn't have a cash party... He offered 100 thousand, because Rūdolfs is ready to give 100 thousand euros... Oscar was organized to wash this money. And we all said no. It was the time when the conflict between me and Artus Neighbours began. ( Internouncing call.) At that particular moment, we went to the Saeima elections in such a spirit. After the Saeima elections, the only work that Artus Kaimiņš did was to fly through the offices with amendments to the Order Roll, which would remove the possibility to issue him if such a request for extradition had come to Parliament. This government, Artus, is a government formed by Meroni. And I believed you had nothing to do with it, but you had. ( Internouncing call.) And that's the only reason why suddenly Artus Neimins has become a vile supporter of the New Unity. This hope will not be released in their criminal proceedings, where, as we know, the accused Gobiņš is also present, the main reason that Artus will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U54	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U55	Dear colleagues, I am not going to speak today as a representative of the nine of Mr. Kaimiņš. I'll just talk like a man. Today, it is not about the government, it is not about the declaration. To a large extent, it is about what path the Latvian Parliament will choose, what path Latvia will take in the coming years. It is about whether the established government can and will be able to justify voters' expectations for change, whether the government will be able to carry out the work that is necessary – vitally necessary! – Latvia’s development, future to withstand huge competition in the world. Can you do without a government? I guess you can. The experience of neighbouring countries shows that government formation can last months and years. Can you live or can't live without a budget? The experience of our brothers in the United States shows that they can live without a budget and even pay off public officials. The British experience shows that for two years the government can work by looking for answers to the question – go not to say goodbye or say goodbye and do not go. Therefore, the options are very, very different. But when a government is formed, based on an infinitely broad compromise, it is always weak. To support this kind of weak government, therefore, is to slow down development and not to meet the expectations of the voter who has elected us 13. The Saeima. But! As in any case, there are positive moments. One of the positive moments is that in countries with weak governments, Parliament's role is growing, parliamentary traditions are strengthening and Parliament's authority is increasing. But! This does not happen automatically. This happens only on one condition – if every Member understands very well that his or her actions should not be with political taste and colour, but should be personal responsibility for what you do, what you say, what you think and what results you hope to achieve. This means that every Member is not just a pressman, but he is really something that Mr. act knowingly and responsibly. I also wish this to all of us. Thank you. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U56	Name to Member Armand Krauze, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U57	Colleagues! I have listened to our actors, and I have to say a few words that do not apply directly to government building, but to what is written on the Internet this morning. The neighbor-owned “dog booby” has not paid taxes to the state for the recruitment of the editor. ( Milestones.) So we read it. ( Internouncing call.) And next... Listen to what a simple person says. You're sitting here and thinking... No, a simple voter sent me this message: “How do you not regret your time to listen to those nightmares? At least you can't go to the theater for a while! Butter! What do you pay for?” Really, what's the salary? About these nightmares?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U58	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U59	Good afternoon, everybody! Colleagues! This is my third Saeima. You don't believe it! As a result, many have experienced and, in view of their experience, to predict. As early as the first days after the elections, I predicted what the result of the coalition's formation would be, because essentially after every election one and the same scenario would be repeated. It's like a Thriller from the beginning: the new parties are coming – we will have it right away, everything will happen, we will do everything – but gradually, gradually, this Thriller later turns into a drama. In other words, the only thing that is done is where the changes are – they are in the driving forces of change. At the very beginning of this coalition, I predicted that new vectors of change... they are like antelopes that run to the sunny distance, and then there are those crocodiles – the old parties that sit quietly in this river and wait for them to run there. The next step, which is given, is the opportunity to break into them. That was also done. First they took one lot, then they cut it, then they took the next one, and then they cut it, and they showed the place. And then you scared Artus. I usually give you good advice. What I say is worth... Yeah... ( Internouncing call.) And here I tell you, there would have been no extraordinary elections. It was simply to put pressure on you to break down and to happen again in this same scenario that has already been seen here already in the entools – that you just get into the belly of the old crocodile. And how it will look will I tell you. Let's say, there's a lot of talk here, you're... Many are so happy that this is a holiday. And it really is a holiday for many. But you have to understand that those invited to the table... What is the reason? Why are you invited there? To a large extent you are invited not to celebrate at this table, but to be feed in this table. In particular, how will this look? Let's take the KPV LV to be demonstrable. Bigger challenges... So, how does it look? You've been given... what Mr Kariņš said – seven main tasks. The first of these was this Moneyval report, which has to be dealt with. Perhaps you're on the course that the Ministry of the Interior will have to deal with it. That is your area of responsibility. And really it's a very big challenge. I don't know if you're in the course, that until now, in the past, the Ministry of Finance has dealt with it. It was transferred from the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of the Interior, but people, key experts, resources have not been transferred there. What does that mean? That you... There is one great opportunity to prove that KPV LV is not a doer, they can do nothing. That's one thing. The other thing. Of course, the greatest challenge is in the OIC. Everyone has accepted it friendlyly here to avenge you for your support for the request for a commission by the Minister for Economic Affairs, and for you to put it now. And now you've been given this task. In addition, as recorded in the declaration... It is also such an interesting story that I can't, of course, mention when I speak here, from the trunk, about the OIC. Now everyone is told that we will end the OIC. Well, it's very good that we end it. But it's not said... if you read this declaration carefully... that OIC-1 will be terminated but in parallel will be prepared OIC-2. So you'll say, yeah, it's okay, but... And as it happens, I'll tell you... specifically for Ralfa. He can use it. But I'll finish it for this existing OIC. So – one thing that will end, but it sounds rather amusing. It's about like that joke: one neighbor from another neighbor... went and stole all the time from the basement jam (intercom.) And when he caught him, he said: “All, all, all! No one is going anywhere anymore.” This is about what is being done now. It was necessary to make clear what believed in that cellar, as it was with this jam. And that's what would be one important, important task that should be done, but that's not why the coverters of this aphere did not want to do anything. This is to carry out a realistic, comprehensive assessment of the legality of the existing OIC system. This was not done. How is it intended to circumvent this whole measure? And, in principle, after exactly this analogy, just as this OIC sphere was made at the time, we were told: “Well, what do you want?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Europe is asking us!” Ralph, you've got a trap. And it will look like this: first... I'll finish on OIK-2. It has already been said... The government declaration states that a national energy and climate change plan will have to be drawn up. This is already being developed intensively. There's a number of points that you're not left with anything else to make OIK-2. It will be about the same story that has been. So the first thing – join in and see what they are about the plans that are put in there, and how they want to be fulfilled. That's one thing. ( Internouncing call.) The other thing. If you want to deal with the OIC field, you can deal with it. As of 31 March, this task may be fulfilled. If so, I can even give you a plan how you can... what these are about things to do. At the time when I got there, I told the former (and I can already say – the former) Minister for Economics... I said: “Arvil, I give you an opportunity. It depends on you who this option will be – it will be either your tramline or your guillotine.” Now, after the results of the elections, you can see about what Unity chose. So what I want to say to you, Ralf, is that you also have an existing coalition... that you may be cut, that you may be put to the place, that you may be meat in their belly. You have also been given this opportunity. And it depends on whether it will be your tramline or guillotine. I can help you in all of this. If you want to do this, I have a real plan to do it. Like what you've prepared like a trap... that it may become a trap for those who have set them up for you. Just like the UK... Your uncompromising rule of law. Soon you will again have the opportunity to show how it really is. You have shown this once when you should have voted in favour of the resignation of the Minister for Economic Affairs. When you supported the request, which proved to be a problem with the OIC's rule of law, you understood that you would be in a coalition before the coalition's political pillar was formed and you suddenly did not have a hand to vote for the rule of law. Mr Kariņš, you spoke very well from this troupe, and I very much hope that when we ask you to come to account for what you talked about here, for what you have done, you will also come, you will speak and not hide behind the back of your ministers. Can I receive such a promise from you? Silence. Well, what? Colleagues, I think it is necessary to give everyone the opportunity to be responsible for their words as soon as possible. Let them work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U60	I closed the debate. The debate is closed. Before the vote, Mr Kariņš, do you want to add something, explain, answer a question? No, no. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Expression of Trust for the Cabinet of Ministers”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 61, against - 39, refrains - not. (Applause) The decision has been taken. We congratulate Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš and the ministers of the new government. We thank Maris Kučinskis and the ministers of the outgoing government. Mr. Karins, please, please, here! I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I The flowers are served to M. Kučinskis and A. K. Kariņš.) Please call me! Please register the Members! While the results of the registration are collected, time for notification. Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U61	Dear Members of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, I would remind you that in 10 minutes' time, an extraordinary meeting of the Foreign Affairs Commission will be held in the Foreign Affairs Commission's Chamber. Please don't be late! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U62	Name of the Saeima Secretary Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U63	All Members are registered! ( The utterances are: “Ooo! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-23-PT13-514-U64	Thank you. I closed the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima.
