ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. We will begin the sitting of the Saeima on 28 November 2019. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law Amending the Law on Official Electronic Address to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. ( Intercretion: “Vote! Vote! We oppose it!” ) So Members object. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law on maternity and sickness insurance to be included on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Unemployment Insurance” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law on unemployment insurance to be included on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 59, 18, abstaining. Draft legislation shall be included on the agenda of the sitting. And the Prime Minister asks that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Administrative Responsibility” be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. Reports by the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Tobacco Products, Plant Smoking Products, Electronic Smoking Devices and Their Liquids” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On disposal of parts of real estate in Limbažu municipality, Limbažu municipality, for public needs – implementation of the P53 Ducci-Limbazi National Regional Road for reconstruction project” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security of Public Entertainment and Holiday Events” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. And at the same time... Dear colleagues, please. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) ... The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption asks for it to be defined as a co-responsible Commission. Mr. Cilevič, you will speak. B. Cilevičs: “ Against” )... ‘to’. ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Boris Cilevičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U2	Dear colleagues, This is another draft law which provides for new restrictions on freedom of assembly. Of course, the State can and sometimes must do so, but if the legitimate interests of the public so require, if these restrictions have a legitimate aim and if they are proportionate. In the statement we see general references to foreign experiences not mentioned in the name. We can see that this will indeed increase the bureaucratic burden both for the organisers of the event, for the municipalities and for the security authorities, but there is no analysis of proportionality. And so it is not clear how a pile of new bureaucratic paper will help to prevent the threat of terrorism. Here I see the willingness of some of the institutions to show that they are working, that they are needed. But yet... Agree - in some general terms - with new restrictions on fundamental rights, in my view, absolutely is wrong. Because the draft law simply failed - they did not justify why these new restrictions are proportionate. And another moment. Even from the point of view of the legal technique, I will remind you - but perhaps for some of you, my fellow Members, this will be something new - that there are already two draft laws in the Saeima that provide for amendments to the same law - the law on the safety of public entertainment and public events. One of these draft laws was also submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers about half a year ago. Both draft laws were in the preparatory phase for the second reading. Is it good that we are looking at several draft laws at the same time, which provide for amendments not only to the same law, but also to the same articles? It is completely wrong from a technical point of view, in my view. If the Cabinet of Ministers invented something new, there was nothing to prevent the submission of new amendments to the draft law already under consideration. I therefore see no need to support this bill and call for a 'no' vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U3	“About” has applied to speak Member Artuss Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U4	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Good morning, fellow Members. I, for my part, call for the vote in favour. I call for the delegation of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption as a co-responsible commission for this draft law. Mr. Cilevič is right. There are indeed two, two, draft laws that will be seen next week, too, from this platform. But in this time... I believe that if such a draft decision of the Cabinet of Ministers... the draft law has come to the Saeima, we have to hand it over to the commission so that it will also discuss this issue, not... that we just don't give... This is a very important point: how people on the relevant dates (and we know which dates are directly concerned)... how to control this, or not to prevent it, because the Ombudsman's Office has also defined that not all human rights are absolute democracy, there may also be some form of restrictions. And that's not lenient. So, please vote in favour! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U5	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security of Public Entertainment and Festivals” to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, establishing that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission for the Prevention of Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No. - 63, no. - 21, no. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Flag of the State of Latvia” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Medical Treatment” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the disposal of real estate for public needs – for the installation of the state border band of the Republic of Latvia on the state border of the Republic of Belarus” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Courts” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, as well as the Legal Commission, stating that its committee is responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Road Use Fees” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Administrative Liability” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On own-initiative proposals submitted. Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Linda Liepiņa, Karina Sprūde, Uldis Augulis, Didzis Šmits, Armands Krauze, Māris Kučinskis, Aldis Gobzems, Jānis Dūklavs, Viktors Valainis and Raimonds Bergmanis have submitted a draft decision on the task for the Cabinet of Ministers to carry out a review of expenditure in the state budget for 2020 by 13 December 2019 at the latest, providing the necessary financial means for raising the salary of healthcare workers. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? ( Internouncing call.) So there is. We must therefore decide to put this own-initiative proposal on the agenda for the next sitting. ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U6	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues from the coalition, whom we have talked to many times in the last month! You can, of course, pretend that nothing has happened. The fact that you've violated the law by your decisions and cheated the doctors, is that it has not happened. You can currently imagine active activities, trying to rearrange ministry expenditure, but the promised increase in funding for healthcare workers will not happen anyway. You can distract public attention by various other methods, for example, by pulling out a bill on the dismissal of the Saeima... What are you preparing on November 18... December 18th. You can try to discredit the signatories for the dismissal of the Saeima by adding them to different marginal groups and meanings. You can do everything, because we see that you are very afraid that reality will soon come into your life. And the reality is that the king is naked. That the king has been naked since January 23. Since January 23rd, this king, coalition, walk naked and try to... with all the reasons... make all people think that the king is in fact very beautifully dressed, in expensive clothes and with a crown on their head. But the truth is that the king is completely naked! And the collection of signatures for your dismissal, and the fact that these signatures will come at ever greater pace from today... And the laughter of Mrs. Voika shows that she's also very scared because she's sticky on her back... I guess there's still a stick to false medical support. ( Internouncing call.) You can laugh, you can yell, you can try in every way to distract attention from the fact that you have cheated people who will come here today at the Saeima House, and whose demand is exactly what this draft decision is for. Rather than try to distract, not to ignore what you have done, but to do what the law requires! You can hide behind any authority that still exists in our country. You can try to collect intelligence signatures for the need to respect the heights of your power. You can change behind Mr Levit's shoulder, but it does not at any time diminish your responsibility for what you have done. And we call on you to correct this error in all possible ways until 1 January. A year will have passed since this law... We invite you to give an assignment to the Cabinet of Ministers to review expenditure in the budget by 13 December and to find money for what you decided a year ago. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U7	“Pret” has applied to speak to Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U8	President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, You have just heard the call of helper, because reality will come in. And those who call for reality to come understand that its reality, the reality of the future, is without them. And that's why it's the cry of help: fix, fix, do something, help me save my skin. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “You’re talking about medicine now, Martyn?” ) Are you not? ( Internouncing call.) And the other one. I like that people come here to talk and say, “Get a thief!” , but forgot to look in the mirror. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U9	So, honourable colleagues! We will vote in favour of the inclusion of this draft decision on the agenda of the next ordinary sitting. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision “On the task of the Cabinet of Ministers to carry out a review of expenditure in the state budget for 2020, by 13 December 2019 at the latest, providing the necessary financial means for raising the salary of health care workers” on the agenda of the next regular meeting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, this draft decision is not included on the agenda of the next ordinary sitting. Please, turn on the microphone for Gundar Many!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U10	Dear colleagues, In accordance with the parliamentary roll of order, I recommend that this own-initiative proposal be referred to the Social and Labour Commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “Good proposal!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U11	So there is a proposal to refer this own-initiative proposal to the Social and Labour Commission. We must vote in favour of this proposal. Do you want to add something else, Mr. Many? Yeah. So “for” has applied to speak to Gundars Dauge.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U12	Dear colleagues, I am now talking both as a person who has been in politics for 13 years and as a person who is still in hospital. I understand that the budget has been adopted, I also understand that even the coalition partners understand that what was done two weeks ago was not really right for the reason that this is a really unprecedented case - that this parliamentary term itself violates the law that has been voted on by a hundred percent - both the Members who are now in the position and those who are in the opposition. After the agenda, especially in view of the fact that this is, as we know ourselves, the first Latvian state budget, which exceeds 10 billion and is the largest in the history of independent Latvia, and the increase in the budget is EUR 700 000... The logical order of things would be: if we had 700 thousand, then look. First health - 120. That's what we take off from 700. Next to the teachers, less than nine. Take it off. Next, science. What is left over can be shared with others. I'm not saying we don't need anyone else. No, by no means! That's not the case. But just the law is the law, and in the end... You know... of what is written in the Cabinet of Ministers – “One Law – One Truth for All”... I think we are now approaching the fact that the sovereign power of the state of Latvia belongs to the people of Latvia, and do we really not want to at least assess this situation and correct it in any way? Because I can say from my experience that if it continues, then soon there will be no more people working in medicine. Very many people now say: If they had to choose to study medicine again, they would not do so because they can get education in a much shorter period of time, with which you can get a much better paid job with much less responsibility. I call for support to be given to the Social and Labour Commission's own-initiative proposal, as it was the result of a draft law on which we all voted unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U13	“Pret” has applied to speak to Member Didzis Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U14	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! Although I essentially agree with everything Gundars Dauge just said, at the same time, I think there is no point in passing on this bill to the commission, because while the majority of the Saeima... The majority of members of this house believe that the government and therefore any other ordinary Latvian citizen can fail to comply with the laws and decisions of the Saeima, no point from work - work on this kind of... and some decision to make - it is not, because we have delegated the law not to do it. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U15	So we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the transfer of the draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to carry out a review of expenditure in the state budget for 2020 not later than by 13 December 2019, providing the necessary financial means for raising the salary of health care workers” to the Social and Labour Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the draft decision has not been referred to the Social and Labour Commission. Consequently, the own-initiative proposal has been rejected. On the agenda - draft decision “On 11 387 collective application of Latvian citizens “Stand the increase in party funding until next - 14. Saeima - for election’. Dear colleagues, The commission of mandates, ethics and applications has submitted its own proposal – draft decision “On 11 387 collective application of Latvian citizens “ To postpone the increase in party funding until next - 14. Saeima - for election’. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? Does anyone have objections? None. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Members Aldis Gobzems, Jūlija Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Linda Liepiņa, Didzis Šmits, Armands Krauze, Jānis Dūklavs, Māris Kučinskis, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Viktors Valainis and Raimonds Bergmanis have submitted a draft decision “On distrust to the Minister for Health Ilze Viņķelis”. On behalf of the applicants, Member Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U16	Can I ask you for water?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U17	Secretary...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U18	Can I ask you for water? I have an hour, huh? I have an hour, huh? Good morning, Members! It's gonna be spirits! Arthur Schopenhauser once said: “A healthy poor is more happy than a sick king.” Our government, ministers, Ilzi Viņķelis, including, is like this sick king. Failure to comply with the law, disregarding the will of voters and society, extortioning democracy in the most cynical form - these are, by their very nature, the manifestations of this mental disease. This disease is like cancer. And, as we know, the earlier cancers are diagnosed, the more likely it is to avoid getting to metastasis. Let me say that power is overseen, and that power must be taken into account. We won't find any world... a highly developed democracy, where the state would not be co-chaired by the President of the State, the election would not have started and the Prime Minister actually lost his election, and the politician would have been removed from his last place as a minister (meaning the Minister of Health Ilzi Viņķelis). Disgusting the people is a disease - severe and treatable only in one way - by cutting it out just like cancer, driving them to which democracy, the rule of law and the will of the people are just words and empty sounds. Today, the Demision of Minister for Health Ilze Viņķele is being demanded, because the answer to the question that Minister Ilze Viņķele has done to enforce the laws and the pre-election promises he has made himself sounds simple and harsh - nothing! Ilze Viņķele has taken her vacation in New York for public money, spent some 600 euros per night in the expensive hotel, received over a hundred euros per day. This is the most visible performance of Ilze Viņķelis. But what should Ilze Viņķele do, what should be the Minister's vision and the daily agenda for healthcare? First. If the Minister of Health were a person with vision and courage, it would raise the following issues: I think two university hospitals are not needed in Latvia. In millions of cities, they're on their own. That is world practice. Riga is not even a millionth city. At the same time, we are developing and investing heavily in two such hospitals - and I would call it in the language of Stradini and Gailezer - to nobody, even the Minister, who knows what is the right bridge between science and practice. And that's a question of the politician's responsibility. In particular, these two hospitals do not have a clear specialisation. We built the first round of Paul Stradins ’ clinical university hospital at one and a half times the market price. Now we're going to build a second round of 100 million, then there's going to be a third round. In other words, we are currently subsidising the construction cartel, not medicine. And I do not think that we should not have new and modern premises in medical institutions, but rather that first of all the politician must be able to make a conceptual decision with a vision of medical development in Latvia. The only conceptual decision of Minister Ilze Viņķele has been to postpone the introduction of the health insurance system once again, as has happened for the last 29 years. It is so absurd - to postpone health insurance at a time when it is clear that, for example, a car needs to be insured... You need an OCTA and a TASK. But health insurance, man is in our last place again. Bricks, irons and concretes in the first, man in the last. It is obvious to us that the car is insured, and we do it every year, every day. Human health insurance - have to be postponed. This is the only big decision by Ilze Viņķele as Minister. Continuing the topic, it should be stressed that, in parallel, we are losing our money and time, without being able to start the reconstruction of Gailezer, where at least EUR 30 million is needed, and even the Minister of Health Ilze Viņķele cannot tell anyone in Latvia about the role of Stradiņš and Gailezer in the system and their mutual cooperation. Moreover, all this absurdity is, of course, taking place in the absence of a demographic plan - because the requirements for the 1.8 million nations and 2.5 million nations for newly built national health facilities are very different. In my opinion, it would be effective for the second round of Stradins to have a little bit of detail and first of all to decide on the specialisation of Stradins and Gailezers and the need to organise healthcare in the capital in this way. This is a ministerial task that Ilze Viņķele has not done. Secondly. Structure of hospital property. The country of most hospitals is the main shareholder, as is the minority shareholder in most hospitals, such as the Balvas, Riga 1st Hospital, Tukums, Liepaja. Role and objectives are in all cases one - decision-making is quietly blocked by a majority shareholder, puts its own board and carries out similar actions. The plan, I think, should be this. All the hospitals that make up the system are necessary, so to speak, to nationalise. What do I mean? National medicine is important for the reason that it must be: the diagnosis and course of treatment are determined by the treating doctor to whom the state pays. Only public medicine can and will be able to provide quality health care for everyone and not for a small group of solvent societies. Because I have to admit that there is in fact paid medicine in Latvia, which inevitably leads to the fact that a large part of the public does not receive timely and high-quality health care. Thirdly. The absence of elemental indicators and targets in the system. Nobody knows, even the Minister does not know, whether the queues today have fallen after an additional 200 million influx, or whether the availability of doctors has improved for the poor. And what exactly is the line with the doctor? Who is the doctor? Who has this line? It should actually be so self-evident and so... be as visible as yesterday during “Panorama” in the top corner of the screen... And that's why it's not bad enough to ask the question: isn't it that 15 days is the average time the patient spends at the university hospital, compared to five days in Estonia... Is that so? Isn't that because we warm homeless and drunken people in best equipped hospitals during the winter? How many doctors per 100 thousand inhabitants are in Latvia and how - in the best practice in the world? What is the answer to this question, and what can Minister Viņķele say about it? How many beds are there? All of this must be clear at the planning of hospitals, but on these issues too, Minister Ilze Viņķele is like a round zero - without a vision, without concrete work, but with a trip to New York on vacation - at a time when the industry must be more active in its budgetary process. “ You lie, Aldi! ” ) Fourth. Hospital mapping or distribution at levels according to location and function. It's like some sort of map in Latvia is what changes all the time. But here it must be stressed that the work of the hospital is directly related to the work of rescuers and police, maintenance of roads, social care... and orphanages. And for each of these restaurants at the current distribution there are different ad-hoc solutions that cannot be synchronised. There is no single map in Latvia how to help people. It is the Minister's task to deal with this problem. It is Minister Viņķele that has done nothing in this area. Has not made any proposals, has not done anything at all! All this is in a situation where Minister Ilze Viņķele's party is a minister who is carrying out administrative territorial reform. This would mean that these ministers should work together to develop this single map to help people. Five. The absence of an elemental quality management system. Hospital practitioners work in parallel with the private sector in about 30-50 percent of cases (and these are my subjective, individual feelings), because they are forced to do so, and the hospital is used to select their clients for private practice in order to survive and earn. All this leads to a fee for medicine. And on this issue too, Minister Ilze Viņķele has done nothing. That is why medical staff and medical staff are protesting again at the Saeima House today. Six times. We're blowing money in the air in shopping - we're blowing hard and expensive! I'm not going to talk about construction and construction cartel (it was always in the sponsors of Minister Ilze Viņķele's party), but I'm going to talk about equipment. Linear accelerators, computer tomographs, X-rays, angiographs and other expensive equipment, almost the entire healthcare sector is based on impossible service contracts with General Electric, Siemens, Toshiba and others. Formally, the apparatus itself, so to speak, “composes”, but then service costs a couple of years more – another apparatus meets... Service only... Like... There are at least three hospital IT management systems (e.g. “doctor’s office” – a local product such as Meditec) that are not compatible with each other and, in the sense of the whole consciousness, absolutely indispensable. Again - seamless service or maintenance. How has Minister Ilze Viņķele addressed this problem? Nothing! No obvious solution, no proposal, no legislative initiative. Seventh. Purchasing of medicines. For example, Stradini and Gailezer, along with absolutely all other hospitals, buy medicines separately at different prices from the same wholesaler. And it's absolutely absurd. There's at least 100 million of the doctor's next supplement. Gailezer and Stradini are so manipulated by drug cartels that most of the most popular medicines are bought in consistently different packagings, so that at least a lower difference in prices is seen. The question of the megapour of the supermarkets is to be addressed by the interested buyer, not in any way. There is no need to do anything about supermarkets themselves. You need to start trying to buy a medicine cheaper and the medicine will be cheaper. But you don't want it! Because Minister Ilze Viņķele has not done as much in this area as black behind the nail either. The territorial restriction on pharmacy must also be abolished, and this will also reduce the prices of medicines. And then more money will remain for the doctors themselves. And that too was to be done by Minister Ilze Viņķelis. Eight. Minister Ilze Viņķele's responsibility is that she has not been able to prioritise medicine - these 60 million - in an additional 760 million state budget, has not been able to find these funds in 10 billion, including in the budget base, without even trying. Just a populist phrase on raising taxes and increasing the deficit. This is an obvious incompetentness or indifference of Minister Ilze Viņķelis. Nine times. No urgent medical treatment will be given. I wonder that there is still one in Latvia. Ilze Viņķele has actually been active in Latvian politics since regaining independence, changing the colours of politics as socks. In fact, we can talk about a number of Ilzes Viņķelis. We have been Ilze Viņķele, a nationalist and guardian of traditional values, and we have Ilze Viņķele, a globalist and a same-sex love defender. Then we have Ilze Viņķelė, who enters the United States. We also have Ilze Viņķele, who, when speaking in popular terms, casts Unity and supports the government of Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis, because the government of Unity is unacceptable. Finally, we have Ilze Viņķele, who is becoming ministers to the Unity Government again after the Unity has actually been imposed. So we have Ilze Viņķele, who, like a chameleon, adapts the political shades to his... self-sustaining. And that is, once again, first. In 2000, Ilze Viņķele joined the “Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK” party, from which he failed to begin his list in the Riga City Council elections in 2001. The unsuccessful start of the elections is actually a sign of Ilze Viņķele. However, it has not prevented this person from ignoring this expression of the will of the people from being elected in either the Saeima or in office. Secondly. In 2006, Ilze Viņķele failed to stand 9. In the parliamentary elections, it was not elected, but it became the special task of the Minister in the field of the acquisition of European Union funds. Even then, despite the will expressed by the voters, Ilze Viņķele had decided to pursue politics, whatever the voters would say. The voters are obviously not important to Ilze Viņķelis, because this is a system that has been experienced for years. Thirdly. In 2008, Ilze Viņķele withdrew from the ‘Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK’ and was among the citizens of the Civil Union, acted as a consultant of the parliamentary faction of the party. However, even when trying to make a political party, Ilze Viņķele failed to achieve his goal of getting to the political stage. After Ilze Viņķele failed, without any demonstrable results, for eight years in the party “Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK” and tried to create and operate the ranks of the citizens of the Union, Ilze Viņķele decided to join the next political power to Unity, and this time Ilze Viņķele was not wrong. 10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In the Saeima elections in autumn 2010, Ilze Viņķele was finally elected to the Saeima from the List of Association Unity and became Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. In this context, I would like to recall the promises made by the voters, thanks to which the Unity and its active member, Ilze Viņķele, managed to enter the Saeima in 2010. In 2010, the Party’s Unity Four thousand sign programme was as follows, the promises being as follows: No 1. Work for everyone. No 2. A just society. No 3. Healthy society, health promotion, disease prevention available to everyone; physical activity, sport; focus on active life, tackling the causes of premature death, primary care with patent-free medicines. No 4. Responsible politics. No 5. Promoting knowledge and innovation. No 6. Resident Latvian countryside and modern agriculture. No 7. The generation of the people. And No 8 / 8 No, corruption! In 2010, the Unity promised its voters to ensure that there would be 1.1 million jobs in Latvia in four years – until 2014. Today is the end of 2019, but the Unity has still not fulfilled this promise - with Ministers Viņķelis at the forefront. Unfortunately, despite the populist promises, the rise in the number of jobs in Latvia, recorded according to data from the Central Statistical Administration, has not reached the promised indicators, as I have already mentioned, until now. And, very ironically, the biggest increase in jobs was recorded in 2017, when Unity and Ilze Viņķele lost their political position. There are, of course, other promises in the party's programme that have not been fulfilled. CONTEXT The 2010 Government Declaration includes the following tasks: “Our governments” will be the cornerstones of structural reforms, growth in Latvian industrial production, effective, internationally competitive higher education system; we will reduce “early death”, return to birth and so on. In the area of health, in particular, I would like to highlight the following promises: the health system... to the interests of the patient, reorganization of the healthcare system network; “Let’s keep the reduced VAT rate on medicines and medical goods” and “Let’s limit the increase in the price of medicines”. This is what we have today, in 2019, when we have the highest prices of medicines, especially want to emphasise. The Government Declaration commits Latvia to becoming the Baltic leader in the key indicators of quality of life, population development and global competitiveness over the eight years. Eight years came into force in 2018. And in these years, while the Unity was - it was! - in power, Latvia has not become the Baltic leader... On the contrary, Latvia's economic performance is lagging behind that of Lithuania and Estonia. And the same applies to healthcare. And more. TO THE Unity, during the period in which Ilze Viņķele was operating in the Unity, between 2010 and 2016, failed to comply with the... none of their pre-election promises. Today, in 2019, Latvia has the most expensive medicines, health care is not available in time, in the list of compensated medicines there are medicines that are no longer used by other countries for effective disease prevention and treatment, because more effective medicines are used. Because of low wages, hundreds of medical workers are forced to move to other countries in order to provide adequate living conditions for themselves and their family. The problem of healthcare is precisely allowed to Ilze Viņķele as politicians and pardons as political forces in a long-term power. And what we are seeing today is only the result of these unfulfilled promises by Mrs Unity and Mrs Viņķele. In 2011 Ilze Viņķele was also elected to the parliamentary elections 11. In the Saeima and became welfare ministers of the United Nations... Government of Dombrovskis. I would like to remind you that, as Minister for Welfare, Ilze Viņķele - contrary to the promises made in the government declaration on socially responsible policies! - In an interview in November 2012, Playboy declared that pensioners had worked for another country (she thought the Soviet Union), so she receives her own unearned money. Here I would like to quote. ‘ They who come from the Soviet times say they have paid taxes when working in factories (but there was no concept of paying taxes during the Soviet times) and they are saying that their tradition is great, but their pension is small, they have built their country, and it has not been so different from today's Latvia. The harsh truth is, unfortunately, that they are two different worlds and their contribution to another country cannot be adequately appreciated here [...]. It is crazy because people find it very difficult to explain it,” said Viņķele. At that time, this statement by the welfare minister Ilze Viņķele caused public indignation, which is not lasting, because the people of Latvia did not have the freedom to work for the benefit of the country during the Soviet Union. In addition, it also describes Ilze Viņķele's cynicism. This is all the more cynical because Ilze Viņķele himself has been employed for the benefit of another country, that is, the Soviet Union, just like her family members. But I'm not going to eat! This is also the attitude of Health Minister Ilze Viņķele today towards doctors and medical staff, as well as society as a whole. Despite the unsuccessful political debut and the attitude expressed in the interviews towards Latvian citizens, small pension beneficiaries, in a miraculous way Ilze Viņķele managed to be elected for the last time 12. In the family. TO THE UNIFORM, including Ilze Viņķelis, failed during the period 2010-2017 to implement the loud promises on issues related to the Latvian economy and on issues related to social guarantees and health care of Latvian citizens. Then and now, all responsibility is shifted to other political forces, even though the Unity Government has had the opportunity to deliver on the promises made to voters within almost 10 years rather than four. Perhaps, knowing that more than seven years can not hold voters with empty promises, Ilze Viņķele once again decided to change colours and decided to set up a new party with new promises for voters. In July 2017, she withdrew from the Party's Unity and, together with former members of the Unity, Lolita Chigani, Andrey Judine, Alexey Loskutow and Inta Dalder established the Party's Movement for! on 26 August 2017. “ Judah, as we see, out of this “Motion of “About! ” “ fled back to New Unity before the elections. In autumn 2018, Ilze Viņķele was a candidate 13. Saeima elections from the Association for Development/About! list, but another time was not elected to the Saeima as a Member... was the Member's candidate with one of the greatest... deletions from the list. It should be noted that Ilze Viņķele indicated in the Central Electoral Commission’s questionnaire: “If I gain the confidence of the voters... “ I will work on health, social and educational issues if I gain voter confidence. I want to reduce the length of rows in healthcare, patient co-payments and improve the provision of people with disabilities." Nevertheless, Ilze Viņķele did not win voters' confidence, but received 2867 deletions. And it is absolutely clear why today Ilze Viņķele does not rise or fall into a medical profession and has not achieved the necessary and legally prescribed medical... the increase in the salaries of medical staff, because in her questionnaire she has written that she will only work on these matters if she has the confidence of the voters. Ilze Viņķele has not gained the voter's confidence, and it is logical that she does not work on these issues. ( Internouncing call.) In January 2019 she became Minister of Health of the Republic of Latvia in Krišjānis Kariņš' Government. And here I would particularly like to draw the public's attention to the fact that today the public is told that Parliament has unwisely passed a law on the increase in medical fees. And that's why I want to highlight the following things. First. What the voters promised Development/About before the elections!Is that so? I quote: "We believe that the right to receive healthcare in good time is one of the human rights." That's what Development said/About! And Ilze Viņķele. Development/About! The vision is: “A quality health care system financed from the budget, which is available to every citizen of Latvia regardless of his or her assets and place of residence. The conditions for receiving healthcare services - volume, waiting time, low co-payments - must be clearly understood. The patient should be at the heart of the healthcare system. Medical staff must be properly remunerated and public health facilities must be managed efficiently and professionally. The country must invest in promoting public health and preventing disease." It's one of Development/About! pre-election promises, and we have seen from this year what has been fulfilled. Development/About! has voted against the increase in the remuneration of medical staff and has, in fact, done nothing in this area, even though the political organisation in question has a post of Minister for Health. Another promise. Health funding over 10 years will have to be increased to 10 percent of GDP, reaching 8 percent of public funding, 2 from private. The increase in funding must be "predictable and permanent" (I would like to emphasise the word "predictable") so that the healthcare system is able to use it effectively and meaningfully. As budget funding increases, patients' co-payments should be reduced from 42 percent to 20 percent over a period of 10 years. Development/About! has promised a predictable increase in funding. Vote on medical fees... The law contains such a predictable increase, which then Development/Par! no longer supports. So act contrary to their pre-election promises, along with all the health ministers Ilze Viņķelis. The next promise is: "Medium and medical equipment will become cheaper." And I pointed out in my speech earlier today that the Minister for Health, Ilze Viņķele, has done nothing at all in this area. But the promise that Development/About! It said: “We will, as far as possible, make joint procurements of medicines and medical equipment with neighbouring countries, with better price conditions at the expense of larger volumes of purchases. Let us promote the use of patent-free or generic medicines: let us educate doctors and pharmacists about compliance and quality monitoring of generic medicines and ensure the availability of non-commercial information, thus reducing the impact of the pharmaceutical industry on doctors who prescribe branded medicines. We will use only assessment-based health care in the introduction of new medicines and technologies." The question arises: what has been done in this particular area? What has been done by the Power Party for Development/About! And what has the Minister for Health, Ilze Viņķele, done? ( Interface: “Nothing! ” ) Significantly, these promises... Unlike previous promises made by Ilze Viņķele... It is not already within four or eight years, but within 10 years... Being clear that they are promises for 10 years... Who knows what will happen after four or eight years, where else 10 years are going to go - in what party or association will the party's members be present and in what party will Mrs. Ilze Viņķele be again in the future? Will it be necessary to take responsibility for such ancient promises? It is very likely that society has already forgotten them. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Even if there is another party and another name for it, and even if Ilze Viņķele starts in the next elections, it is absolutely clear that Ilze Viņķele, as a politician, is experiencing the beginning of her end. At the end of the year 2018, 13. In the order of urgency of the Saeima in the first and second reading, that is, in the final reading, supported the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Financing of Health Care”, which provides that the Government, when preparing the draft state budget, should provide for funds to increase medical salaries by 20 per cent each year for the next three years. All members of the coalition voted in favour of this law, including all "Development/About!" and all Members of THE NEW Unity. Currently, the President of Latvia, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health Ilze Viņķele unanimously declares that this law adopted by the Saeima in the urgency procedure was unwitting and hasty because the government had not yet been established. However, no one mentions that the already established government has included its statutory obligation in the government declaration. So Minister Ilze Viņķele does not comply with the government declaration, just as Prime Minister Kariņš and other representatives of this coalition do not. But would the Declaration of the Cabinet of Ministers also be unwitting and hasty, given that the Government Declaration was adopted at the end of January 2019, at a time when the government-building parties had long discussed government priorities, resulting in a declaration by the government of Krišjānis Kariņš. And so the promises recorded there are imprudent and hastily. Because if it is possible to fail to comply with the law, why should the government declaration be fulfilled? Let us return to the promises made by the government of Krišjānis Kariņš, including the promise of health care within four years. The government declaration was signed, among other things, by the Minister of Health, Ilze Viņķele, who... Points 136 and 136 of this Declaration state: “We will ensure that the rules of the Health Finance Act are complied with by increasing public funding for health care and by raising the pay for health workers.” The government declaration includes a point on raising medical fees, and then the government, with ministers Viņķelis, comes ahead and tells the public that the Saeima has deliberately decided to increase medical salaries. Ilze Viņķele himself has signed a government declaration, which provides for an increase in medical fees, and tries to hide it. Paragraph 139 of the Government Declaration states: ‘Let us ensure more free and fair competition in the pharmaceutical market by establishing a national pharmaceutical policy in order to [...] lower their prices.’ A year has passed. Where is this national pharmaceutical policy? Where is the concept of national pharmaceutical policy? Where are the concrete proposals made by Minister Ilze Viņķele on this issue? There's no one! But it is written in a government declaration signed by Minister Ilze Viņķele. The opposite has happened. During the year, despite the beautiful promises made in the government declaration, the laws adopted, the public has been given a clear signal - the government... The family may not comply with the laws that it has itself. All the pre-election promises in party programmes and the government declaration are just promises to get to power and hold to power, without counting on the mandates given by the voters for the realisation of the promises. Medical and health care is in a situation where we can no longer wait for four or 10 years. Not only can medical staff not wait, but patients can no longer wait. Only a healthy society can growth and healthy development in the country. The statistical data “are inexcusable – out of 18 776 registered sisters in the medical sector work less than half, or 8756, and in the last 10 years Latvia has lost almost 5 thousand employees”, and all this has happened during the Unity’s reign. At the time when Viņķele was Minister of Unity Government. And also this year, when Minister Viņķele is Minister for Health. Since 2010, we have heard the same promises of structural reforms in Unity and its successors - the result of which will be the regularisation of welfare and health sectors. It has been promised for 10 years. But it should be stressed that the average mortality rate has not decreased since 2010 (although we are seeing medical developments in the world!) , the number of stillborn infants increased, the population in the regions decreased - contrary to the promises of Unity and Viņķele in the last 10 years. The proportion of persons below the minimum income level in the statistical regions of Latvia is constant (with minor fluctuations) over the last 10 years. The poverty risk threshold has increased, with the high proportion of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion remaining. The average nurse's salary is 550 euros, the average sanitary salary - 400 euros, the doctor's resident salary - 950 euros before tax. Such remuneration is twice as low as the salary of medical staff in Estonia and in Lithuania. And all this happened during the reign of Unity. All this happened at a time when Minister Viņķele was in power. Young doctors also urged the public to be critical of what it means to be cheese, and the hard - won increase in medical wages. Young doctors point out that doctors are the same as all others who deserve paid overtime. On this issue, the Ombudsman of Latvia, Mr Jansons, has repeatedly asked the Saeima to take a responsible approach to the procedures for preparing and approving the state budget in order to address issues related to responsible state social policy, thus also regarding access to health care, in line with the recommendations and recommendations of the OECD. And it is very significant that these OECD recommendations to the coalition and Minister Viņķelis are indifferent. With an identical message, the Ombudsman, Mr Janson, has also addressed the President of Latvia. In order to highlight the problem more precisely, the Ombudsman has indicated that only 4 per cent of GDP in 2020 is planned to be devoted to the health care of citizens of Latvia. The Ministry of Health itself has indicated that funding for health care in OECD countries ranges from 5.1 to 16.4 percent of GDP. Latvia has done nothing in this area. More important to us are construction cartels, prison construction, old armaments, political tourism travel, seven-fold increase in party funding. We hide salaries for the public administration under the heading "Integrated access to resource management" - so that society does not notice. The Ombudsman indicated to the Saeima: when comparing the European Union's national budget expenditure, two main areas where Latvia is far behind the European average: health care and social security. These are areas that have been neglected for years and are not adequately funded, although most closely linked to the basic needs of people. This view of the Ombudsman was not heard either in Parliament or in the Government, therefore on 1 October 2019 the Ombudsman applied to the Constitutional Court regarding the inconsistency of paragraph 2 of the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations on the guaranteed minimum income level with Article 1 and Article 109 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia. Mrs Viņķele has been responsible for these sectors, for their policies, through the long-standing active presence in the Unity Team and, both in the position of Minister for Welfare and now in the capacity of Minister for Health, have not been able to reach the minimum health target of GDP set in the OECD recommendations. Supporting the 2020 budget with 3.3 per cent of GDP for the health sector. The OECD report underlines that according to OECD standards, Latvia has a short life span of its population. This is more than six years less than the average of the organisations in the Member States. The fact that there is too little funding for healthcare in Latvia has been highlighted both by the World Health Organisation, by the European Commission and by the OECD. The lack of money has a significant impact on the poor health of the population as a whole, on the low life expectancy, on the unmet needs for care and on the wide availability of services. Latvia with more than 40 percent is second... after which the residents themselves pay for their own health care, excluding contributions paid in the form of taxes to the state budget. By providing 3.3 to 3.5 per cent of GDP for healthcare, the government also departs from the government declaration to comply with the Health Financing Act. And I would remind you that it states that the sector should receive at least 4 per cent of GDP next year. It should be recalled that the amendments to the law aimed at raising medical wages by 20 percent will not be implemented, although most ministers voted for it themselves, while they were members of the Saeima. Both the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Health and Minister Ilze Viņķele have said that next year the growth of the sector will be 50 million euros, but this figure is also not true. Although EUR 50 million has indeed been added to the rise in salaries and to the additional payment of medicines, funding under other headings, such as ‘investment in equipment and infrastructure’, has been reduced. As a result, the increase is only about EUR 34 million. A few more things. Latvia has catastrophic statistics on the state of public health. Socially at risk groups do not seek medical help in good time because they cannot afford it, as co-payments for examinations and outpatient treatment are disproportionate to the income levels of these groups. 11.3 percent of men and 10.9 percent of women found that they did not have the necessary medical examination or treatment, although this was necessary. Of these, 42.7 percent of women and 32.9 percent of men did not pass the test because they could not afford it. The second most common reason is to wait to make sure that you do not get better in time. In 2018, the average age of the dead was 69.2 years for men and 79.3 years for women. The most common cause of death in Latvia is circulatory diseases. Female mortality with circulatory disease is 1.2 times higher than male, and the second largest group of causes of death, most common among men, is tumors. In Latvia, cancer patients receive significantly less public budget resources than in Lithuania and Estonia. This puts our cancer patients in an unequal situation, and treatment often requires donations. Here I can give an example with a check lottery. We have a cheque lottery in which we spend the state budget so that the new Unity's Secretary-General Berg and his companies have revenue from the state budget, but we do not have enough budget for the treatment of melanoma. A critical problem for the oncology sector is the lack of medical staff. It is necessary to provide for the establishment of a single network in order to better coordinate the care of cancer patients, as well as to reduce Latvia's considerable delay in access to medicines. There is also a shortage of specialists in oncology, which makes it difficult to make full use of new technologies. For example, there is a lack of doctors' radiologists, who run into private care facilities to find higher wages. Continuing the course will not leave doctors oncologists, cardiologists or radiologists in Latvia. Other types of staff will also be forced to decide to move to another Member State of the European Union, where medical professionals will be able to provide themselves and family life. Medical staff are already being invited to learn German so that they can move to Germany after three or six months of language training, because our medical staff is required in other Member States of the European Union. The interview by Mrs. Ilze Viņķele recently leads to the conclusion that... Ilze Viņķele has stated: “As opposed to oncology or cardiology, which is such as the areas of fashion that the whole country is talking about, psychiatry has always been stigmatized.” That's what Health Minister Ilze Viņķelė says! In no case would I question the importance of treating psychiatric illness, but I consider it particularly cynical and statistically unfounded claim that oncology and cardiology are fashion subjects in Latvia. As cynical as to the concern about making psychiatry a priority that Ilze Viņķele has already forgotten: in the last year there is no measurable, concrete work itself in the area defined by Ilze Viņķele as a priority area - psychiatry. There would be any concrete proposals on the part of Ilze Viņķele, or any concrete work that would have been done? But when you go back to the topic of oncology, you have to say that statistics are inexorable. Oncological diseases: less than 12,000 people have been diagnosed every year. I want to remind you that 12 thousand people - it's more than a whole Kuldīga! Every year one city in Latvia suffers from oncological diseases! And this indicator, although there is a constant decline in population, is only increasing every year in the last 10 years. According to the data provided by the Central Statistical Office, the number of oncologists in Latvia at the end of 2017, when statistics on this period were available, was only 49, while the number of oncology patients... There were 77,341 patients at the end of the same year. And if Health Minister Ilze Viņķele can say that oncology is a fashion thing for us, then it's the highest degree of incompetentness. During this talk, the coalition talked with each other, walking, as usual, is nothing new. ( Internouncing call.) They are not interested in the increase in medical fees, and they are not interested in promises made before the elections or recorded in the government declaration. They are not interested in their own votes in Parliament and in the enforcement of the law. And they're probably also not interested in medical personnel today's protest at the Saeima. Their only way to exist in politics, and Ilze Viņķele, is the best example of this: to change the colours, the name of the party every four years for the chameleons, and to continue to make promises in the same spirit that are not fulfilled. And we see that our health care, like all other sectors, is getting stuck in an ever-increasing abyss. And that is why we need to start today with a bold step. We must start with a step against those who do not care for healthcare, but... We need to start with this, namely the release of the Minister for Health, Ilze Viņķele. Not only should we be laid off, but we must also be laid off from politics, because we have promised enough! It has been promised for decades. For decades since Ilze Viņķele is in Latvian politics. And, as we know, in Latvia's policy this person is actually from the moment of independent announcement of Latvia. At the end of my speech, I want to use the Latin saying, which describes the reasons why we should release the Minister for Health and why we should actually release this coalition. And this Latin saying is - Mens sana in corporation sano. ‘ Whole body spirit.’ Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U19	Addressee Minister for Health. Mrs. Viņķele, you have the opportunity to speak for an hour. Will you have enough time to break? No, no. So we will continue the debate after the break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Time for notification! Dear colleagues, today's birthday is celebrated by Maris Kučinskis, and we welcome him! (Applause) Name for Maria Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, to report on the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U20	Not registered: Aldis Adamovičs, Uldis Augulis, Jānis Adamsons, Jānis Butāns, Anda Čakša, Aldis Gobzems... Yes, Artuss Neighbours... yes, Ieva Krapāne, Ainars Latkovskis... Yes, Atis Lejiņš... yes, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Anita Muižniece and Vladimir Nikonov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U21	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U22	Dear colleagues, We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda - draft decision on distrust to the Minister of Health Ilze Viņķelis. Honourable Members! A proposal has been tabled. Members Aldis Gobzems, Didzis Šmits, Jūlija Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde and Linda Liepiņa are asking to announce a sitting break from 11.00 to 12.00. Do Members have objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) The vote must then be taken. Please call me! We will vote in favour (interim:... “for”!’ )... “About”... Is that so? You want to talk about it. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U23	Members of the Saeima and, in particular, members of the coalition! I would like to emphasise that today at 11.00 at the parliament here, down, in quite unpleasant weather conditions - not warm and a little spraying rain - there are medical and medical staff who demand that the law be enforced. Requires the Parliament to comply with the law, requires the Government to comply with the declaration. These are people who do not want to leave Latvia, and their last hope is that the coalition will at least listen to them, at least talk. I therefore call on the coalition Members not to be afraid of the people who have come to Parliament (Dep. A. Lejiņš: “I’m not afraid! I've been talking to them for just 10 minutes!” ) (they have many), and announce a break for that reason, for this hour, while a protest action by medical staff is taking place at the Saeima House... so that the coalition can go to people without fear, talk, and explain why the law is not being enforced, why the promises are not being fulfilled. And not only listen to them, but it is very possible to change your view of the past. Nothing will happen if the Minister of Health Ilze Viņķele gives his speech after this break, but there will be a lot if the coalition once again wants to hide in the Saeima house behind the bodyguards and security staff. I call on Members of the Saeima not to be afraid of society, because Members who make decisions for the people - they should not be afraid of anything. They are (interfaces.) able to go to people. I therefore ask for a break for the respect for those who are currently present in Parliament, because it is these people who are also taking care of your health, for the health of those who voted against the increase in medical salaries. They have taken the oath of Hippocrates, and they also help those who do not care for the interests of doctors. So as much attention as... One hour of parliamentary work will not change anything. I've already heard the coalition's representatives... spoke to each other, and Mrs Strike also voiced her opposition to such a break. I also call on Mrs Strike to reflect on and not to be afraid of the people who are near the parliamentary building. They are doctors, they are medical staff, they are people who simply want the Latvian Parliament to comply with the laws in force. Please declare a break and do not act cynically against Latvian society at this time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U24	Mr. Daniel Pavluts has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U25	Hello, honors... Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! I can only mention what consideration might be given to encouraging another break, preaching... I think I'm alive in the memory that we just had a 40-minute break... really 40 minutes. I saw it, Lewis... Mr Leiens was outside and spoke to protestors who are gathering there already, by the way, at least an hour, if not more. I spoke briefly too... So, I think, those Members who wanted, really wanted, Mr Gobzem, to go out to talk... to listen to opinions, to express their opinions and to converse... is likely to have already done so. So I don't see any practical point for an additional break at the moment. I think that all those who want to show respect and interest and talk to protestors have already done so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U26	Colleagues! We have to vote. Please call me! Let us vote for a break before 12 noon! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 33, against - 51, abstaining - not. So no break is announced. We shall continue to examine the draft decision. First name to Health Minister Ilze Viņķelis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U27	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Members, Dear colleagues, When it became clear that signatures had been collected for a request for a commission, my head of office asked colleagues in the Ministry: “How do colleagues feel?” And they said, "Wait about what? Oh, demand for the mission! We have not already had any health minister for whom there is no need for depression.” It's a common thing. I have to say, not only in the Ministry of Health, but also in the Ministry of Welfare. This is a normal case in ministries, which are spending and which, chronically, for a long time, do not receive sufficient funding. It must be said, though, that the requests for secondment differ from one minister to another. Sometimes it's about things, sometimes it's about... I'm sorry, but there's also some drive requests that mask... which masks a problem in which the claimants themselves have been involved or have actually been involved, and in fact represents a classic situation in which the messenger of a disgusting message is killed. I'd like to say two... A few comments on a colleague who, 40 minutes ago, I'm sorry, 50... made a request for a mission. ( Subtotal: “Fifty! ”) ) If his speech removed the word connection “Ilze Viņķele”, it would be half shorter. I have to say that I understand very well why a colleague is excluded from the Bar Association (Dep. L. Liepiņa’s intermediate call.) and why he is not admitted to national secrecy. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova’s intermediate call. Because that's the amount of fact errors... If such a lawyer represented me in the court, I will tell you (Dep. I. Brussels: ‘Gobzem's speech is on the agenda?’ ), it is very likely that I would have lost my court. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: “Speak about yourself!” ) Thus, for example, it was mentioned that the hospital in Gailezer had not begun the reconstruction. Colleagues! Everyone who has come to Gailezer’s hospital because of their health or when visiting relatives, since this summer, knows that half of Gailezer’s hulls have been closed, is in repair. Repair work is intensive and the completion of the works is planned for next summer. It was mentioned that the majority of the hospital is state-owned or has a minority shareholder. That's... I don't know how to say it more politely... I'll say this: it's a mistake. Regional hospitals and municipalities. And... Yes, the Ministry of Health and I have a plan that we will present initially to the Cabinet of Ministers and perhaps later to your attention - that, at least in regional hospitals, the country should become a shareholder, but this is not the case at the moment. Then I heard a aerial statement that the average number of days spent in university hospitals was 15 days. Bullshit! Seven. Then it was mentioned that the number of doctors we had compared to developed countries was, to say, somewhere completely down. Bullshit! For us, this is directly in line with the OECD average number of doctors per population. But to list all the brutal errors, I would have to spend as much time as the speaker in his presentation. And that's why I'm just pointing to some of the roughest. And I'll go on with what I wanted to tell you. Let us look at some facts from statistics. The OECD evaluation... Even before the accession of the country to the OECD in 2016, Latvia evaluated the health system as one of the first conclusions, it was stressed that the Latvian health care system provides effective and high quality care in conditions where the available funding is significantly lower, while health care needs are significantly higher than in other OECD countries. I mean, with a small amount of money... thanks to our medical doctor’s honestness, professionalism and patience, Latvians receive specific conditions even good health care. The European Commission has pointed out in many reports that the healthcare system in Latvia is still underfunded and public health spending is low. The World Health Organisation recommends that health care be provided for at least 12 per cent of the total budget expenditure in the European region. And that would be the goal that Latvia needs to pursue. In the healthcare sector, financing from gross domestic product has never exceeded 4 per cent, around which the critical threshold has fluctuated. The next year's general government expenditure is 4.1 per cent. But if we're just looking at clean health... function, that is 3.5 per cent. On the other hand, the average for the countries of the European Union is 7.2 and for the OECD - 6.5 per cent of gross domestic product. Building a society in which everyone and everyone can be as healthy as possible for as long as possible - a fundamental mission of any Saeima and also government. I would like to highlight several things that have been done and done this year, in cooperation with both the Cabinet and you, the Saeima. First, I would mention the suspension of the discriminatory two-pink system (Dep. I. Riena: “It was a crime!” ), which unfairly divided Latvian taxpayers into “right” and “right”. As international experts have pointed out to Latvia many times before the adoption of this - so-called - insurance, to which we refer, for example, when we talk about environmental protection (i.e. the European Commission, the World Health Organisation and even the OECD), there is no successful analogue of this kind of insurance model in the world. There was one country, I have forgotten, either Kazakhstan or Kyrgyzstan, which had tried to experiment with its citizens in a similar way, and they have also abandoned this idea. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Reindeer: “Experiment only here!” ) It is precisely for these reasons that a model has been developed and has already been proposed in spring at the Cabinet, in which 1 per cent of social security contributions are mandatory for all employment regimes. For several reasons this decision was postponed in the spring, but the Saeima has given the Ministry of Health and the Cabinet of Ministers the task of submitting these amendments to you for consideration before 1 April, and I confirm that this will be done. Learning about specific unique solutions to problems does not always deliver the expected results. We are therefore looking at successful examples of excellence that are already in operation elsewhere. And here I would like to mention that after years of unsuccessful attempts this year, the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers have been changed and the internationally generic name of medicines will have to be indicated on the prescription as of 1 April when prescribing medicines. This means that we save around 20 million per year in patient co-payments. The cost of medicines for patients will decrease, but additional resources will be released, which will allow us to add to the list of medicines to be compensated, including innovative medicines and increasing the amount of compensation. I would remind you that it took 10 years for this decision to be taken, because the pharmaceutical lobby is extremely strong, but this Saeima and the government are free from this kind of lobby, and that is why the changes that are currently taking place in the pharmaceutical regulation could be called revolutionary. Since spring, we have also been working on a change in the system of drug discounting. I would like to inform you that the sector that is opposed - the pharmaceutical industry, this time not so many manufacturers, but the supermarkets, including pharmacy, multi-chain pharmacy - are very difficult discussion partners. And, I have to say, they don't even sometimes understand how it's that you can't talk somewhere, but you have to talk to the table. We need to talk to the Pharmaceutical Advisory Council, where all the rules of the game are clear... on the table. The same applies to the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which are announced at the meeting of the Secretaries of State and will provide for online declaration of stocks of supermarkets, which means that the State Medicines Agency will be able to trace how supermarkets deliver or do not deliver medicinal products to different pharmacy and where interruptions of supplies of medicinal products are at risk. Let me tell you one: the supermarkets were not happy about this regulation. But also working with very serious lobbies that are used to a different working style - when they understand that there is no other way to agree here than just a better solution for patients, they are also quite cooperative. The longer Latvia is an independent, democratic state, the less radical political developments should be in the work of each of the next Saeima and the Cabinet of Ministers. Because it shows the maturity and responsibility of the policy. That is why I continue with the well-started reforms that, for example, are set out in the Health Reform Plan adopted in 2017. And this plan envisages... It was yet another of the gross errors of fact that, as of 1 April of this year, Latvian hospitals have been divided into five levels, defining the scope and range of services to be provided. It has to be said that while already working on the level of hospitals, it was clear that a number of hospitals... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Ribena’s intermediate call.) own commitment to take care of certain complexity and scope... might be challenging. In particular, the desire to qualify for higher levels of care could not be in line with the actual capacity to provide it. Hospitals use a variety of tricks to keep up the illusion of the times when understanding the standard of medical care was different and the population was much higher. To verify the services available to patients and their quality, now, every week, the health check and the check of the Ministry of Health are being carried out: our colleagues arrive at the end of the working hours without prior warning to make sure that the surgeon who has actually been sent by the hospital is on duty. Some hospitals are in absolute order. Some hospitals are in order on paper. Some hospitals have no paper or nature. Let me give you one example of the latest survey data. In one of the regions... not for regional, large hospitals, but for one of the regional hospitals, colleagues found that the surgeon was in principle in the hospital, but he had to wait. Why? Because the nurse goes to wake up, because the surgeon sleeps because there are no patients there, and the surgeon has already had the seventh daily watch. These are the facts on which we will have to work after a new year, because this means that there is enough substantial change in the service to amend regional hospitals. The absolute objective of this is patient safety. This also means that we are currently working on the creation of a new service: transport costs will also be an integral part of treatment... transport services to the patient, so that he can be taken from his small locality by means of the most cost-effective transport to the regional hospital where he is being assisted and also brought back home. He does not depend on the public transport schedule. All this is happening at the moment, and it is a very serious and huge job. I have heard concerns - does this mean that hospitals will be closed? No, the wave of hospital closures is over. The answer is no. The number of hospitals in Latvia will not change significantly. But they'll be transformed. And I will give you an example of what I would like to see as a norm in Latvia over a period of one year or two years. My 81 - year - old pop still works at the Vilan Hospital. In fact, it's not a hospital, it's just a name. It is still called the Vilan Hospital, and that will remain the case. It's the outpatient center of the day. They have 50 beds, 60 filled. Without them, the Rēzekne Regional Hospital could not survive. Dr. Vidiņš works with patients who represent the four most common diseases directly related to socio-economic conditions. Among his patients are palliative, heavy, mostly on leaving... patients with oncology; people with low income; people who need rehabilitation and care after stroke; people with untreated cardiovascular disease because they do not have the money to afford to complete the course of medication prescribed by doctors. And the fourth group are people who suffer from various types of alcohol dependence diseases. And the hospital's doing great. And that will be the future of Latvia - that in the smaller populated areas, hospitals that have ever carried out sufficiently complex operations... Yeah... I would remind you that Dr. Vidiņš was leading the hospital once, and during his time, the Vilani hospital was built, where he operated and accepted births, and what the father says is that this model is optimal in the demographic situation today, because it is the center of support, light and hope for its small populated areas, which also helps to work for family doctors. This is a model that we can successfully develop and distribute further in Latvia. Consequently, if someone is trying to tell you that this government is going to eliminate hospitals, that is not true. This government (and I hope - also with the support of the Saeima) will go to a model where a person closer to his home will have access to quality care and the complex operations he needs will be carried out either in one of three or four regional hospitals or in one of the two major university clinics. Then I could still... I would like to touch on the question of the extent of the responsibilities of the Minister for Industry, particularly in coalition governments, and how much the Minister for Industry can provide the necessary funding. Here again, the ministers of so-called 'dropping industries' are in a traditionally more difficult situation. Poor three - prosperity, health and culture. These are portfolios in any government, whose financial needs exceed those of the sector and will also exceed actual needs in any country and at any time. That is why ministers in these sectors cannot afford the privilege of looking at their own industry alone. ‘ The approach of the feudal ministries to well-being, health and culture will always be left to the role of a grandson, as they depend on the circumstances of how much money is available for redistribution in the country's gross domestic product as a whole. So we're going to deconstruct the biggest political myth in recent years. I really appreciate my colleague, Maris Kučinski. There has been an opportunity to work with him in the Saeima, and I can really assure you that Marim's heart is in the right place and, for example, in order to arrange a school network, his contribution is invaluable. He has done as much as any minister, perhaps even more. I also considered that the decision of the previous government to increase the budget deficit to borrow money to finance health care was a good decision, as financing for healthcare even on debt is, however, an investment rather than spending. Yes, the fine words 'deficit of the deficit', in fact, colleagues, are the same budget deficit, just more finely named. I had never studied the reasons why the previous government decided to increase the deficit for healthcare expenditure. I assumed that this was because politicians really knew the need to increase funding for the health sector. But then, reading the latest OECD and European Commission Latvia's assessments, as well as analysing the budgetary relationship of the previous year and this year, this explanation no longer seems quite appropriate to me. In the government of Mr Kučinska, a colleague, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, responded to the funding. Under her leadership, the so-called tax reform was implemented. A series of changes, whose declared objectives were well recognised, were to reduce inequality and increase tax revenues and also the share of gross domestic product. But looking now at the results of this so-called tax reform, both our own experts - colleagues from the Board of Fiscal Discipline - and the European Commission and the OECD, recognise that the declared objectives have not yet been achieved. In particular, tax administration has become more complex. It is also known as the nightmare of accountants. The impact on the reduction of inequality is minimal and the reduction in tax revenues expected for redistribution has reached up to 1 percentage point of gross domestic product over two years. The estimates are different. A figure of about 300 million is mentioned. Thus, costly additional tax incentives were introduced, but additional revenue from this is temporarily missing. Maybe the reinvested profits in companies will ever come back. We'll see that. But right now, no. In such circumstances, its seemingly generous deficit derogation is marked by a different light. In fact, if it were not appropriate... it is highlighted as a huge achievement... then, let us be honest, due to the tax changes that have been made, the financing of the health sector would fall dramatically. It is in this way - in general - that the health budget should be assessed. The rating has been heard: health so requires and requires money, but the result is not, it is not. Less is the fact that the state is already not paying the full price for health services to the industry... about 400 million euros... And this is the subject of tariffs. This is the money paid to public health institutions for the provision of services. The reality is that some tariffs do not even cover the cost of services at present. What does that mean? This means that it also places a significant burden on patients as co-payments increase. And this in turn has the worst impact on vulnerable groups. What is being done in this direction? The National Health Service is already actively converting tariffs. To understand the scale: the number of manipulation tariffs is 4 thousand. Since the beginning of this year, the tariff has been recalculated and amended for around 400 manipulations. There have been 34 new ones. And to understand this difference: for example, with the very great involvement of the best Paul Stradins clinical university intensive therapy specialists, the tariff for intensive care beddays has been recalculated. At present, it is 91 euros or 92 euros, but in view of the complex cases of intensive care... Do you know how much it is? 749! The state pays major university hospitals the rate I mentioned earlier. The difference is devastating. There is also an answer here why university hospitals still work with losses. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that a number of priorities have been set... as the colleague has already mentioned, including the availability of care services in the field of psychiatric and drug addiction. Your attention: World Health Organisation estimates that depression will become the main cause of somatic diseases in 2030. Already in Britain, for example, mental health... mental diagnosis is embedded in the great divination, between oncology and cardiology, and is the second major cause of death in Britain. The prevalence of mental diseases and diseases in Latvia is also extremely high. Just like addiction. And this is why multidisciplinary teams have been set up, which, like complexes elsewhere in the world, deal with mental health problems and addiction problems. We have also recalculated tariffs, and the state is now starting to pay not only the services of psychiatrists, but also the services of their team staff - psychologists, ergotrapists, physiotherapists, artrapists and other specialists. From 50 to 75 percent (and for certain diagnoses up to 100 percent!) There is also an increase in the reimbursement of medicines for people with mental illness. There are also signs of improvement in the provision of children's psychiatrists, but of course there is still much to be done here. I would also like to mention one area from the wide range of responsibilities of the Ministry of Health, such as financial and labour-intensive ICT projects. The system's biggest concern child is e-health. Here I would also mention a further IT centralization project of the Ministry of Health. At the beginning of work at the Ministry, I received information indicating that procurement and monitoring of projects should be given greater attention. I have to say that not only the Ministry of Health, but also the public administration in general... that we are very poorly equipped with information technology specialists, because we cannot pay them as much as they pay... on the market. That's why we didn't go as smooth and easy as we did these IT project purchases. But we did this, and the result is that - now, with one of the businessmen who has seen not exactly fair actions at his disposal, the Ministry of Health is negotiating an opportunity to recover, say the money that has been wasted gently. I suspect that the businessman's readiness to negotiate in some way is also influenced by the fact that criminal proceedings have been initiated against this case in the State police. But it must be said that every work, every discovery of such schemes, requires enough work. However, I will not stop. As far as the procurement of large medical technologies is concerned, the final line currently contains new procurement guidelines aimed at ensuring competition and the best possible price for procurement. More. Let's go. We are doing things that have not been possible so far. We are also talking to industry and private service providers about the fact that, in future, we will also coordinate the procurement of large, complex and expensive medical technologies with the private to eliminate resource fragmentation. Then, of course, the fact that society as a whole, and also the industry itself, has long been pointing out that the remuneration system for healthcare workers is complex, opaque and with strong elements of inequality. The increase in medical fees in recent years, which we will continue with EUR 60 million next year, does not answer the question whether this salary reaches a sufficient level for those medical workers who need it most. That is why, with the support of the State Chancellery, I have started working on the establishment of a new system of medical remuneration and I look forward to your attention... at least in the committee responsible... present it after a new year. This goal is equivalent to working time... It's beginning to become technical... We know clearly what, to what extent, and to what extent, a doctor, sister or sister's assistant receives a certain amount of pay with a lower number of bonuses, i.e. a more transparent and equal remuneration system. I must say a great deal of thanks to my colleagues in the Ministry of Health, who are a great team that really works very creative and much to improve the Latvian healthcare system. I must say thank you to the Saeima and also to the opposition, because the opposition always maintains that element of life... hot breath in the back of the arm. Sometimes it is very useful. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Agešins: “You will stay here today?” ) I want to... Mostly... Thank you also for the doctors. Although this dialogue is currently tense and sometimes we are not talking to each other, I am convinced that only that - together with the industry, listening to the industry, listening to what the industry is saying unpleasantly, and what we do not want to hear... we can only work together to improve the health situation in Latvia to stay. To put it this way, we are at a point where we all have letters on the table. And its letter cards form the word “bed”. But the task we have to create from those letters is to put the word “happiness”. Although both words have the same number of letters, and even one letter is the same, you have not left the “happy” of the pit. However, you can get out of the pit. Of course, if there is a wish. And it can only be done by common forces. When I graduated from the Master of Public Health programme, one of the most well-known Latvian health system experts, Professor Ģirts Brģis spoke to us. He said words that have become the motto of my professional activities and to whom I sincerely believe. Professor Bridge said: “Your goal is always and everywhere to stand and fall into public health.” That's what I do for the best conscience and within my abilities. May all of us have good health! And for those who do the work of a stressful politician - especially good mental health! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U28	Thank you to the Minister for Health for your detailed explanation. We are continuing the debate. on behalf of the Group. - Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U29	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Minister! Good morning, Members! It won't be spirits. No member of the Group has signed a request for a commission to Ilze Viņķele. We do not believe that only the Minister of Health bears responsibility for the decision taken by the whole government to explicitly ignore the decision taken by this Saeima, the law on medical fees, and a number of other laws. Every government minister is responsible for this, and Prime Minister Kariņš is primarily responsible for this. In addition, from all government ministers... It was Ilze Viņķele that at least offered a solution to find the missing EUR 60 million in medical wages at the expense of the deficit. Interestingly, of all the coalition parties, he was only supported by the National Association. I am not even talking about New Unity now. The absolute obedience to the European structures is the DNA of this party, and its understanding of the economy is limited to having a budget without deficit. It is stuck somewhere in 2009. But what about the New Conservative Party, which, just before the elections, a series of its promises, in particular its famous “3 × 500”, planned to be financed by the budget deficit? Well, “KPV LV”... It is time to increase the budget deficit by 0.2... of a percentage... - it would be too radical for you. Dear colleagues, Why is Ilze Viņķele the only government minister sitting in that court step today? Where is Prime Minister Karin? Why is he not here today to defend his ministers? Where are the other ministers, especially those who voted for the law to increase medical salaries? Where's John Reirs? Where's Fare Linkait? Where's Edgar Rinkēvičs? Where's Juris Puce? Where's Ralph Nemir? Where's Long Shuplinsk? Where's Artie Pabrix? At least Mrs Petraviča is here, a half-member, a half-minister. It hasn't decided who she is. Maybe you should move to that trial bench, Mrs. Petraviča? You are also guilty of this government decision. Dear colleagues, No member of the Group has signed this request for a resignation. But the request for a mission has been made. And we must express our attitude with a vote. Mrs. Viņķele! As a Minister of Government, it is your duty to comply with the laws adopted by the Saeima, whatever the coalition council may tell you. One law - one truth for all! You have not expressed and registered your special opinion at the government meeting where the decision on the budget was taken, so you are jointly responsible with other colleagues of the Cabinet of Ministers for non-compliance with the laws of the Republic of Latvia. Together with your colleagues in the government you have demonstrated disrespect for the Saeima, the law of the Republic of Latvia and the Constitution. As I said, it is not right that you are the only one who is now being tried in this way, but, in view of your shared responsibility, there is nothing left for the Group to support your depression. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U30	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U31	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I, too, today... Before we came back... I spoke to doctors at the Saeima, and I must admit that my thoughts are divided. There are a number of doctors who believe that this demand for service is to be supported, and there are also a number of doctors who believe that this demand for service is not to be supported and that responsibility should be sought by another minister, and that is John Reirs. I think that we will get to that point. But today there is a request for a resignation for Ilze Viņķelis, and I will try to explain why I have signed this request for a resignation and why I believe that this is to be supported. At least as a motivation for the Minister to really start working on the substance and do what he has said. If we look... In extraordinary session of 13 November... at the meeting of the budget... Following the presentation of a government report on the work done by the Prime Minister and all members of the government, the Ministry of Health had discussed on several pages what it did. If we look at this, I would like to highlight from these works one really big work that I'm against... is ‘to’... and here too, from the platform, you, fellow Members, have pointed out that if we support the opt-out... two baskets, the transition to one basket, which is specifically highlighted in this report... who followed it... Also a waiver of contributions... and very powerful statements by the Minister that this money must be found when looking at other tax regimes that do not pay social contributions. That's absolutely right. That should have been so. Now, the Minister obviously failed to convince members of the coalition to do something like that. That time in spring... At the beginning of the summer, we pointed out that these decisions would undoubtedly have an impact on next year's budgeting process and that there would be problems in meeting the promise that the whole Saeima unanimously... decided on an increase in medical salaries. More! Nothing else was done, just the budget was banged, and with a very... I would say this: the populism that prevailed continued: the promises of pre-election... The old man is bad... But he didn't put anything in place. And because they didn't put anything in place... Today we can go out to the Saeima and see what the doctors think of it all. More! Of course, this increase in money would not have been enough, other sources would have to be looked at and it would have to work. But instead of looking for solutions in essence, at the last moment an elegant solution was found to close the doctor's mouth... At least most doctors close their mouth... One part is expected to increase their salaries, while the other part is less likely to increase salaries. You all know what... I hope you know what the situation is in the regions. In Riga, capital city, we have hospitals and... Any doctor has the opportunity to work in one hospital and to work in another hospital, to drive from one... to use private clinics. And doctors make good use of this opportunity. Unfortunately, there is no such possibility in the regions. If we look, the resident has a gross wage of EUR 950. Of course, there are bonuses to the salary for going to residence in the region. This represents a remuneration of EUR 1235. At the same time, the doctor in the same region has a salary of EUR 1079. Now you're in a situation where when you still learn when you're resident, you have one salary, but when you get a certificate, your salary... In this case... if we look at the regions, we see that there are cases of pay differentials of about EUR 300 per month. When you become a certified doctor from a student, your salary is, in essence, lower. And you, with this government decision, driven by Minister Viņķele, actually made this situation even worse. It's my approach, that's the way it works, that's the way it works, the way it works, the way it works, - absolutely unsatisfactory in this case. Instead of trying to make all doctors equal pay increases, you just choose - they are better, they are worse - actually making this situation even more absurd. Let's go. This report points out that work has been started on a common methodology for the creation of a single row. That's absolutely right, very good. It's a good job. But can their work be put to work? The work has already begun in the time of Chach. Unfortunately, Mrs Čakša is not here today. I tried to call her and ask her if it really is, but... Unfortunately, this work began before Minister Viņķele. And here is a number of works that have been started before. Unfortunately, Minister Viņķele is proud in this report of the work that she has already done, namely, her basic job. What if Mrs Murniece, the Speaker of the Saeima, now started to be proud of the fact that she is chairing the sittings? It is her job to chair the sittings. And there's nothing to be proud of. It's just a job. A great many things have been recorded here that have already been done, just to continue. It is not said here that the work has been completed. With regard to the principles of price formation of medicines, which are also mentioned here, we have seen this week's Competition Council opinion that we have the most expensive medicines in the Baltics. And the Ministry will start doing something again. At the end of the previous Saeima, he looked... At that time, too, there was a sub-committee - a sub-committee on Public Health - where they looked at these issues. Now it's more than a year ago... There were very big campaigns also for you when you started your elections - that this is the thing that needs to be fought and dealt with. What has happened over the year? A year has passed, but in essence we are talking about a very similar vision of the prices of medicines - similar to what was already the case a year ago. In the course of the year, virtually nothing has been done about medicines in either the Saeima or government or in the ministry. We saw the Minister... from the office of the Ministry... I'm sorry, from the Ministry of Health... the official's story that something will happen right now... A year ago, there were the same statements that something would happen, but we still have the most expensive medicines in the Baltic States. Confirmed this week... Report from the Competition Council... Is that normal? I think that is not normal. And this job... It is not only necessary to tell us that something will happen, but also to work. About the health care service... these hospital levels. Of course, these levels... It was already in previous government times that the... Of course, there is still work to be done. I'm very... Thank you very much, Minister, for mentioning today that no hospital will be closed. Thank you for that. You could also tell Prime Minister Kariņš, who said this year that he should close... that we have twice as many hospitals as we should. ( Internoint.) Thank you very much. And that, in my opinion, is... Absolutely don't go with what you're talking about, what Mr. Karin is talking about. Mr Kariņš refers to the State Audit Office report, which I am absolutely sure Mr Kariņš himself has not even opened up; he simply read some form of press release somewhere, from which he caught the fact that there are twice as many hospitals in Latvia as necessary. So that I invite you to your future work... If today's draft decision asking for your depression is not supported, please tell Mr Kariņš about what you are planning for hospital networks, hospital levels! ( Internouncing call.) On these levels. I would like to say that on this job it should be remembered that... Of course, it's right... You mentioned... have different levels, different requirements and also different... the various resources that these hospitals will receive in real terms. And when we are talking about these levels, about the availability of doctors, we must not forget about the people who are going to be treated in these hospitals, because they are the ones who are the ones who are the ones. And so that this resource is in the end enough for people not only in Riga, but also in the regions to be able to get adequate healthcare, because it is not all possible to travel to Riga and get healthcare on an appropriate level. So, colleagues, I can only repeat the fact that this report... from the work done is... I could only mention one work done by the Minister... which undoubtedly leaves a gap in the health budget and undoubtedly points to your failure to address the substance of this issue... in principle, all coalitions... Likewise, the Saeima has not been given the opportunity... The full respect, in fact, for the Minister! She came with solutions at the moment she cancelled... Two baskets... I have said that several times... for micro-enterprises... various social regimes where no social contributions are paid. You did not support this. Even now, when the Minister saw this situation, he came with another proposal regarding the increase in the deficit, but it did not come to the Saeima either. It only came to the coalition council where it was not supported. So, in my opinion, if we look at what happened in the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit, when we met with doctors and representatives of the Ministry of Finance... This was still in the process of preparing the budget. The Deputy State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance replied in the confirmation that this coalition, the government, was initially offered a budget in which the remuneration of medical staff was in line with the rule of law. That was offered. The question is, why did not Mr Reira and Mrs Viņķele not keep this crows to the end, but were subject to your pressure to come up with various other priorities (the football fields and everything else that has been included in this budget) and did not support the doctors. So I call you to go out today and talk to the doctors, to explain why you did that. I call on the Minister to support this request for resignation so that the Minister has a greater motivation to do something rather than just to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U32	Name to Member Andris Flyre.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U33	Dear Mrs. Mourniece. Dear colleagues, Minister for Health! As Head of the Social and Labour Commission, I regularly meet with the Health Ministers - also outside the Parliament - as well as other staff of the Ministry of Health and the National Health Service. The Minister has already kept a very good and accurate record of both the work that has been done and the work that has already been done this year. I would like to emphasise the contribution specifically to the field of pharmaceuticals... a reduction in the price of medicines, what... Other colleagues said that there was nothing done, but it really is. ( Interface: “Enter in the pharmacy! ” ) And the most important thing that has been done is that from next year, as the Minister said, from 1 April, doctors will have to write down the names of orphan medicinal products. This will significantly reduce how much patients will pay for the medicine. Because it's right now that in hospitals, too, in medical practice... actually we can see that... these representatives of the companies go to the doctors, asking them to prescribe these expensive medicines... This is also what I see on a daily basis - that many residents and doctors... In fact, these templates are ready, where really based on original medicines, which are much more expensive. We know that it will no longer be there from 1 April, and that is, in my opinion, one of the most important points that has been introduced. A policy of reducing the price of medicinal products has also been launched with regard to wholesale and pharmacy levels. There has been a 10-year lobby from supermarkets, from pharmaceutical companies, so that the policy of price reduction does not happen. But this policy will also be directed towards supermarkets. As the head of the commission, I will certainly support this. It is also planned to facilitate pharmacy placement in less populated areas and to review the geographical and demographic criteria of pharmacy placement. So, in fact, the pharmaceutical package - which is planned and which has already been done - is really very, very impressive. As far as the previous speakers are concerned, there were indeed very many factual errors. Although one example I remember right away is that the average number of days a patient spends in a hospital is now 15 days. That's not the case. The average is 5-6 days, as in Estonia and Lithuania. Of course, this will depend on the patient’s profile. But in fact they are 5-6 days. I thank the Minister for the work he has done this year. And I call for it to be as active as it is in the future. And I call on you, of course, not to support the request for a mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U34	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U35	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Minister! Although I signed up to the request for a resignation, I will not vote in favour of the Prime Minister's resignation today... not because I have a birthday today, and so all people are. Medicines cause noise.) I feel extremely kind, not because I was praised by the Minister, but for other reasons. The reasons I think are two. The first reason. In my view, we still have time to do something, because in fact no government has fallen and no minister has fallen from outside. We can already speak and point out, but problems and crises begin internally when something is not dealt with either alone or together. And the second reason. We can't... As Mr. Valaiņš has already illustrated, it is not really possible for us to check what has happened then and what works have been done because... I very much hope that everything is still ahead, because most have been carried over... Therefore, I think that today everyone can be quite calm about the outcome, and the Minister should really turn his sleeves back and work. But... two themes. One is about the budget and the promises. Why was there a picket? I'm an illustration... I was also preparing for the budget, but... As soon as we got there, it got there. One article I'd like to read... from the euphoria of that time... After the adoption of the famous law, which laid down the great wages, which determined the whole future of the sunny, which, unfortunately, people believed... People have believed many things. ‘ At today's Saeima sitting, the Young Conservative Group voted in favour of an amendment to the Health Care Financing Act, which provides... “... country... In the health care financing law “State funding for raising the salary of health care workers” the amount of 20 per cent for the next three years was not included in the draft budget for 2019, because “M. Kučinskis un D. Reizniece-Ozola” did not agree to include such funding in the budget – it was not provided for in the law. Then no reservations and reservations will be allowed in the draft budgets for 2020 and 2021, as the increase in wages and the amount of funding required for this are "incorporated in the law by today's vote". End of quote. In the cave! (Applause) I'm talking about first reading... budget, I called it a big promise for funerals. The funeral of the great promises has passed, the festival has come to an end, and now there are quite a lot of tribals, the mass of people out there, and unfortunately they really believed that new times were coming, new miracles are coming. Retired by the pensioners: at last there will be a pension of EUR 500, health care (Dep. ( K. Feldman's intermediate call.) ... that you're gonna be all... everything goes on like butter. The reality turned out to be different. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. ( K. Feldman's intermediate call.) And with regard to funding, there is one truth that I also want to say with my experience. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “Mari, don’t lie in your birthday!” ) 500 - pensions, 500 - unlimited minimum (Dep. Feldman: “Oh, it will! It will!” ), and what else... 500... But it's a different subject. I am sorry, we are going to talk about the health budget today. That is why I absolutely do not regret the fact that I also made my signature... because there should be such a possibility. Such an opportunity should be - here in the Saeima, to discuss every sector, to look critically at the progress made by each minister, and to tell and deny something from the minister. There is no budget funding and it will never be possible if it is not agreed by the government as a whole. Now, by the second point, of the time carried over, of the deadlines carried over. At the time when Mrs. Viņķele abolished it (in fact, earlier)... said we won't have two baskets, but there's only one... At that point in time, the real opportunity for further funding issues has also come to an end. What's going to happen? What has now been chosen by the Minister, which she presented and which was not adopted in the government for the time being, is... Well, good luck! It is, in my view, an impossible mission - here in Parliament, to vote for it all together. It's tax, not... Our project provided voluntary insurance for those who did not work in one form or another of business. It meant paying men for non-working wives, it meant paying for their mothers, or vice versa. The amounts were relatively democratic and all were involved. At the time it was wiped out, the possibility of further increases in funding was also lost. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Riena: “That’s it!” ) On this subject, the question is: what it means for everyone to be joint and several, because no matter what is paid for in this country. In fact, in recent years, growth in healthcare, taken as a whole, is fantastic - 480 million! It is in the size of a whole sector, and now at 480 million! - Get out at the Saeima, 2,000 people protesting - that's, of course... Well, it must obviously be understood. It didn't work for me in three years. (Applause) It has now been repealed. Now, Mrs. Viņķele... Much else has also been wrong. We heard... In e-health, there's something in Chach's second man... has participated... he did, and it all collapsed... But there's nothing in there either. I look at Latvia.lv and please explain... I don't see any prescriptions anymore... When will it be? And that is why I did not vote in favour of the resignation. When will there be improvements in eHealth? When will the system be arranged? And then what will eventually come instead of two baskets? As our society, how people will feel – everyone involved with not only “I have to do everything!” , but also with “What do I give, and what do I do in terms of health care?” Is that so? I just want to say that everything else is in front of us, Minister. Good luck, and don't forget, we're watching you! Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “A lot of happiness on the birthday!” ) Thank you, Mr. Neighbours. ( Internoint.) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U36	Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U37	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, As regards the health situation and the work and initiatives of the Minister, I would particularly like to address the issue of reducing the risks of social inequality. It is precisely about suspending the introduction of two health services baskets. This model, I recall, was intended to fully provide state-paid health services to regular social tax payers, as well as to several groups of the population insured by the State, such as pensioners (Dep. I. Riena: “19! As in any country!’ ) and require additional fees from persons who do not pay social tax or who do not pay it on a regular basis. For example, from micro-enterprises, as well as from people who work in a low and irregular way, who already have an unconvincing situation on the labour market, for example because of low qualifications or low social skills. What was the situation of the Latvian healthcare system before the introduction of the two health services? In spring 2018, the European Commission wrote in its report on Latvia that there are far more people with lower incomes who believe that their needs for healthcare are not met. The proportion of people who considered their health to be good was more than twice as high as those with high incomes. Thus, the approach to healthcare was already very unequal and the introduction of the so-called two baskets would make it even more unequal, putting people with already weak social protection at greater risk of health problems. It would have been a real problem for people working in low-tax regimes. Also for persons with occasional income without permanent employment or other stable sources of income, if they are not recipients of social security. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Riena: ‘They were part of one of these groups?’ ) The Health Care Financing Act divided Latvian citizens into “right” and “bad” taxpayers at the time, but doctors intended to become tax inspectors. This was in contradiction with Article 111 of the Satversme (“The State protects human health...”), as well as with the principle of equality laid down in the Constitution. Without necessary changes to the law, there was a risk of an increase in the number of people who would not seek medical attention in good time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Riena: “What a misunderstanding! What a misunderstanding!” ) Ministry of Health's officials rejected... Having stated that the current law was not... It was not their intention, but the idea that emerged in the discussions between politicians. I add, a bad idea. Thanks to the Minister and her insistence and principle, which we too have on Development/Par! Members, we have already said and continue to say, the model of two baskets has not been introduced. Currently, the Minister and the Ministry are actively working on health care financing issues, tariffs, ways to reduce the co-payment of patients, and other aspects. The Minister of Health has already proposed one fair model of how health funding, including social tax, could be introduced this year. This proposal was left by the government because it wanted to be seen in the wider context of tax policy, and it is logical in principle. I would like to stress that healthcare must be financed from general tax revenues. This is quite important because people who are exposed to greater health risks because of their social status are also the ones who are responsible, not just them themselves. I support the work of Minister Ilze Viņķele and Ministry for the establishment of an effective and transparent state-funded healthcare system and hope that she will continue with this work. I call on you not to support the request for a mission. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U38	Name of Member Dace Rukšāne-Šchipčinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U39	Hello, colleagues! Much is said today about what has been done and what has not been done in the health sector. I believe that distrust will be a mistake. In my opinion, the Minister must remain in office and continue to reform the sector. And now I would like to clarify my position by using one concrete example: the work of Minister Viņķele to update and improve access to mental health. Unfortunately, the mental or mental health aspect of our society has been ignored for a very long time, and this has led to sad statistics and tragic consequences for the specific, real people. Latvia has high rates of cross-juvenation among schoolchildren, suicide rates remain high; the number of people experiencing stress, tension and depression is increasing. In 2017, mental and behavioural disorders were registered by more than 89 thousand persons or 4.6 percent of the Latvian population. And they're just registered. People with mental health problems are stigmatised and prejudices exist that hinder their inclusion in society. Finally, we are starting to talk about this problem at national level, and I believe that updating this complex theme is a merit of Minister Viņķele. The plan developed and implemented by the Ministry of Health to improve the availability of mental health care for 2019-2020 provides “to ensure access for citizens based on evidence, as much as possible modern, high-quality mental health care that meets their needs”, as well as to introduce a modern, new treatment approach, where people’s health will be supported by a team that includes not only a doctor’s psychiatrist, but also other specialists – psychologists, art therapy, physiotherapists, ergot-rapists and other experts necessary for a particular individual. This is very important as "the mental health of society is an essential condition for a stable, secure and prosperous society". This year, a public communication campaign was also launched to reduce prejudices about mental health and discrimination against people with mental health problems. This is also a very important event for me personally. I remember a wave of negativeness and prejudice that I had to face when I publicly told about depression and my fight against it. But I am lucky because I have a wonderful and supportive family, friends, and therapy that allows me to take care of my spiritual health. But I can imagine very well how it is when you're all alone with your problems. I have long decided to use my public awareness to reduce prejudices relating to mental health, so that after some time other people do not face negative or discriminatory situations, so that they feel secure and seek help, because it is normal. Today I am using my status as a Member to talk again about the fact that we still have a lot ahead of us to provide mental health care available to Latvian citizens. Finally, as a country, we are no longer like the head of the sand, but we are beginning to talk about and tackle these problems. I am grateful for this to Minister Viņķelis. I will support her work and call on you also to support her and allow the ongoing changes in mental health care as well as in other health sectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U40	Mr. Stein, will you have enough time for the debate to break? Name to Member Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U41	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Minister! Colleagues! Resurrection! Today, I would like to say something about the performance of the Ministry of Health in the field of mental health of young people, rebutting some gross factual error and giving reasons why I do not support the resignation of the Minister of Health. Some facts. According to the World Health Organization, about 20 percent of young people face mental health problems, of which about 50 percent start between the ages of 12 and 14. Most of these cases remain undetected. The European Youth objective was adopted last year and the fifth objective is on mental health. Europe is aware and aware that "a significant and growing number of young people across Europe are concerned about mental health problems such as high stress levels, anxiety, depression and other mental diseases among their peers. Young people across Europe point to the great social pressure they are facing today and to the need for better mental health care for young people." According to the study by Riga Stradins University and the Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, Latvia holds 6th place in the European Union in terms of completed suicides in the age group 15-19, but among the boys of this age statistics are even less valid. Latvia has ranked in 5th place. Thoughts about suicide during life have been noted by 15.7 percent of Latvian youth aged 14-17 years. Journalist Zanda Ozola-Balade points out in the Latvian Television “Panorama” programme on 9 October: the youngest teenager, who tried to commit suicide this year, was only 11 years old. Because of suicide this year, three young people's lives have disappeared before the arrival of doctors of emergency medical care. There are more than 1,500 calls per year for emergency medical treatment for those who try to take their lives away. In view of these facts and in order for children and young people with mental and behavioural disorders to receive timely assistance in cases of depression and suicide risk, the Ministry of Health established a programme for adolescents to reduce the risk of depression and suicide and, together with the Children’s Clinical University Hospital, the Children’s Hospital Fund and the Adolescent Resource Centre set up last October, a new state-paid service for adolescents to reduce the risk of depression and suicide. For the first time in Latvia free assistance is available for adolescents outside hospital premises. It is planned to help at least 20 adolescents this year, the following year - 18, with funding. This assistance is provided one year ago at the Adolescent Resources Centre in Riga, established by the Children’s Hospital Fund, which was created thanks to financial support from the Ministry of Welfare. This year, on June 19, the branch of this centre in Liepaja was also opened. This is a good cooperation between ministries, non-governmental organisations, professionals in the field and an example of cooperation. In my opinion, Ilze Viņķele is a very human minister. She not only travels by bicycle to work, but also often talks about heavy and serious topics in festivals and events where society gathers. The issues and solutions for mental health this year were discussed both at the Lampa festival and at the Ogle event. The Minister is very responsive to participation and negotiations. A little bit about funding. Much more funding for the health sector is needed not only for wages, but also for reforms and new initiatives that are important for society. For example, in the future, such youth health centres that I mentioned should be opened all over Latvia, you should not stop at Riga and Liepaja. Together, we need to work to enable the health sector to continue to increase funding from year to year. Because, as the Minister said, investment in the health sector is an investment in the future of Latvia. And I believe that in parallel... that the necessary reforms of the Ministry of Health, the existing composition of the Ministry’s management team, will definitely continue. I would also like to dispel one of the errors of fact. Is Ilze Viņķele really the most excluded politician in Latvia? No, it's not. I have studied the data on the last four elections in which Mrs Viņķele has been a candidate. 13. In the Saeima elections, she was a candidate for herself in an unusual electoral region - Zemgale. They received 2 thousand plus, 2800 deletions. Yes, this is the only time that the difference between deletions and benefits is bigger and makes up... 573 votes. In total, 12 thousand votes were cast for Ilzi Viņķelis. There are not many politicians who have managed to get more than 2 000 votes. Ilze Viņķele is among them. In the past, Dep. A. Neighbours ... I said it's not much! In the past - 10, 11 and 12. Saeima elections - Ilze Viņķele was a candidate in Riga region. All times, they were elected. 12. In the Saeima elections, 12 thousand plus were received, and the deletion was 2,500 less. 11. In the Saeima's elections - 7 thousand plus, there are already much fewer deletions. The same is true of 10. Saeima elections, where there are far more benefits than deletions. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Ločmele-Lunova: “The results have been published next time!” ) The above analysis shows that the allegations that she is the most excluded politician are gross errors and misleading public opinion. In carrying out this analysis, I conclude that it is not the people who have received this policy that should be released from the election process (Interinstitutional call). both the other, and the deletions; but those who speak of the mower empty, and the false, and the error, and the error of the permission, lie unmistakablely. I call on the public not to give in to populist slogans, speeches that are full of factual errors, and I call on individual colleagues to visit critical thinking quickly (Dep. A. Neighbours: “And psychiatry courses!” )... skills... and different... teaching, because to say that nothing has been done in the health sector - only people without absolute... without critical thinking skills. ( Milestones.) Our society lacks powerful leaders who are also able to say harsh things (and able to make them based on facts) and is not afraid to say them publicly. Ilze Viņķelė is a brave, powerful and capable health minister who does not deserve a debut after 10 months of work. Let us allow work to be done and let us reject this request for resignation from the Minister for Health. Thank you for your attention. (Applause) (See paragraph 4.5 of this Regulation.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U42	Mr. Ageshin, you're not going to have four minutes? No, no. So let's debate further after the break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name for Maria Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, to report on the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U43	Not registered: Aldis Adamovičs, Uldis Augulis, Jānis Adamsons, Jānis Butāns, Anda Čakša, Artuss Kaimiņš... is, Andrejs Klementjevs, Ieva Krapāne, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere and Vladimir Nikonov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U44	Thank you. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U45	Honourable Members! We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. We are continuing the debate. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U46	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Madam Minister, I would like to draw your attention once again, to one very specific problem, to the staff of the Ministry of Health and the National Health Service. I would like to remind you that state-paid dental services for children under 18 years of age are still not available in Liepaja. For several years to receive state-paid dental services, linguists and children go to other cities of Latvia - Grobiņš, Kuldīga, Ventspils - or even to other countries - Lithuania ( Klaipėda or Palanga). Others are forced to stand in the queue in Liepaja, so that these services may be received in about 26 months. In the line to state-paid services in Liepaja there are now more than a thousand children, and waiting times are really more than two years old. So that by the time he comes to the doctor, all his teeth will fall naturally! Yeah, of course, one... Of course, a child can also be brought to a doctor for money, but if the parents receive a minimum wage and the children are two, they do not. Therefore, the question arises: what can families who cannot afford to pay the doctor in private practice, say, EUR 20 per tooth repair? I believe that the employees of the Ministry of Health, the National Health Service and the management of Liepaja City Council must carry out their duties actively and collectively to provide the children with state-paid dental services, as required by the laws and regulations in force. Why has this not been done so far? Because of a lack of specialists, or because of quotas, or for other reasons? Children’s parents have little interest in this. People pay taxes and are entitled to require compliance with the law. If children receive these services at a cost, then it is necessary to lay down rules on compensation mechanisms. Representatives of Liepaja municipality have met with the Ministry of Health, Liepaja dentists, responsible state officials on several occasions to ask to address this hurting issue that the funding granted by the state to children and the procedure for repairing their teeth is not satisfactory to the Liepaja dentists... and... which have a free choice of whether or not to enter into a contract with the State for the provision of this service. Liepaja Municipality, through the capital company Liepaja Regional Hospital, owns its own dental clinic, which provides dental services to children, but demand is very high, while the number of doctors is insufficient. Doctors who are ready to come and work are being searched and addressed. Of course, that is not enough. And I call on the responsible ministry to solve these problems immediately, because they have not been resolved for several years. Madam Minister, It's clear that the Saeima... The majority of the Saeima today, for reasons of coalition stability or for other reasons, will not support distrust towards you. Therefore, I would like to inform you that on Saturday, December 7, from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. at Liepaja City Council building, a picket will take place at Rožu Street 6. The aim of the picket is to draw the attention of responsible institutions and the public to the fact that state-paid dental services for children under 18 years of age are still not available in Liepaja. The situation has not improved over the last two years, the problem has not been solved, children are waiting for two years in line - more than a thousand people. So I invite you, Minister, to come to the picket at Liepaja City Council on Saturday, December 7, at 11.00 to listen to the residents of Liepaja. But now, today, I would like to understand your vision, hear conclusions, see solutions, because this problem in Liepaja must be solved immediately. Thank you for your attention. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U47	The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U48	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Minister, Colleagues! First of all, I thank the opposition for the opportunity we have given today to finally go into the field of healthcare to understand to what extent it is important for every Latvian citizen and for Latvia's further development. ( Insight was needed on the budget!) ) Medical practitioners rightly complain about low wages, citizens - about the lack of access to healthcare and often - about quality. The task of the Ministry of Health is to think and, of course, to work on this issue... improvement, but the task of all Saeima and government is to understand and act. Understand that health care in Latvia has the lowest funding in the European Union and also in the OECD. And I don't even care where... which you take, because we're at the bottom, too. Therefore, it is no wonder that the health of our citizens is so bad and we die quickly and soon. If there were only one relationship that we all need to know about Latvia's healthcare and progress towards the future in numbers, then these would be figures 4 and 7. Seven per cent of gross domestic product is the amount of money that, on average, is diverted to healthcare in the Member States of the European Union. In Latvia it will be 4.1 next year. Do you know what 1 per cent of gross domestic product is? That's 300 million. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Riena: “Last year, 200 million were given and nothing improved! The system is a dart!’ ) So we... up to European Union level health... We need almost a billion euros to get the kind of healthcare we deserve as European citizens. Obviously, this number of previous governments has been so frightened that no extra money has been sought, except for the last government of Kučinski... And even when the situation became oppressive. We're not scared about it, and we're looking at it in the long run. My colleague... A former associate professor in the field of corruption developed a measure that he called the Mercedes Index. When he arrived in a country, he looked at the streets and its proportion of cars between rich, chic, thick machines and residents... He was quite unerringly able to determine the level of political corruption in the country. He saw it and gave it for Latvia in the beginning of 2000. I don't have measurements of the expensive medical equipment and their connection with the lasting political corruption in Latvia, but it was shocking to understand that until now the Ministry of Health has not had information about where the equipment is located. At the moment, if there is a corrupt and link-based system, you are not only expensive to buy, but also bad to use and in no way expensive host. You keep spending a lot of money... maintain a product that you have paid too much and that you can’t use. There will now be a point. The Ministry of Health has agreed not only with the hospitals under the supervision of the state and local authorities, but also with the private - to create a medical device card so that we not only know how to use these systems more effectively, but also that the doctor and the patient do not sit on a single bus while travelling to a particular place to carry out an investigation (and then each one goes in his own direction), because there would be not only an apparatus that is not properly used but also a quota. Openness in the system will help to ensure this. The country must be a careful host and count on what it needs and how it needs. The gold law of procurement is the better you know what you want to buy, the better and better you can do it. The Ministry will have to work closely to ensure that the guidelines on equipment purchases, which were discussed by the Minister, are followed up in hospitals. And I believe it will work. I am therefore also pleased that the guidelines for joint procurement of medicines for 2019 and 2020 have been approved within the framework of the Baltic Assembly, because earlier, in joint procurement with Estonia, one area of medicines - vaccines - saved around half a million euros and more on each side of the country. It should therefore continue. However, we will not become healthier from austerity alone. We get exactly what we invest in. Thank you to the public and medical professionals who no longer want to accept residual funding for the health sector. We will also work to bring improvements to the healthcare system. I would like to thank the Minister for what has been done so far, and I call on him not to support the Minister's resignation. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U49	Name of Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U50	Hello, colleagues! Today, there is a lot of talk from this troupe about various aspects of health. I would like to draw attention to some of the reforms of the health system that affect patients directly. Today I will give you examples of what is happening in cancer screening. It is a national programme for early detection of precancerous diseases and cancer. I'll talk about two things. First of all, Mamography. Under the leadership of Minister Viņķele, changes are taking place in the provision of mammography services. An audit of availability and quality has been carried out. In line with this audit, steps have been developed to improve the service. Screening implementation training for radiologists, radiologist assistants and radiographers. Recycled letters of invitation for women to be more understandable, sensitive and to further encourage women to conduct public-paid investigations. Algorithms are changed, how to talk to patients to ensure the patient's understanding of what happens to her health, about participation in her treatment, and to strengthen feedback... any further action needed to improve health. The so-called four-eye principle has already been introduced on 1 September. It is an international, standardised method that every mammography survey is viewed by two independent radiologists, thus reducing the risk of misreading or interpretation. These are changes that make services more qualitative, understandable, sensitive to patients. A second example is bowel cancer. As of October, the country has started paying for a more effective and patient-friendly diagnosis of intestinal cancer. The diagnosis so far has caused great inconvenience to people, but with the new method it has been minimised. The new method helps to detect intestinal cancer in the early stages, even before any symptoms appear. The new test method significantly facilitates the conduct of tests as they can be performed by the patient at home. In addition, this method is more precise than previously available tests. This service is also more quality and convenient for the patient. These are just two drops of reform measures at sea... led by Minister Viņķele. These are illustrative examples: what places should change in the system, how these changes are already taking place and how they should continue under the leadership of the Minister for Health, Viņķele. I call on the Minister to continue his work.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U51	The name of Member Dace Bluke.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U52	Dear President of the Saeima. Minister! Dear colleagues, The Head of Government called on health ministers Ilzi Viņķelis not to look for money for their industry, but to do their work within the industry and arrange the health care system. I would just like to say that the sector's systematic adjustment is being carried out and will continue to do so. So far, it's been a number of times... I have spoken from the troupe about administrative territorial reform. There have been criticisms that this is only a border reform that does not include content. This time, I would like to talk about the content which, in parallel, in the light of the intentions of administrative reform, is being planned and researched... under the direction of the Ministry of Health of Ilze Viņķele. Several years ago, in August 2017, the government was presented with a very important health problem. It is related to the Latvian hospital network, which creates a significantly different quality of life between regions and local authorities. There are inequalities not only in terms of income, economic activity, but also in terms of limited access to specialised health services in regions, especially in municipalities located far from Riga. One example: In Latvia, the mortality of ovarian cancer patients in one regional hospital, where the number of such patients is low, was one-and-a-half times higher than in another hospital, where the number of patients with a certain diagnosis is high and the intensity of activity of this hospital is therefore much higher. After examining the reasons, the Ministry concluded that the quality is ensured by an adequate number of manipulations carried out by doctors and medical staff. The more a doctor works with ovarian cancer, because his experience is higher and the mortality rate is lower. It's a job quality problem in small hospitals... Due to the lack of medical experience, the volume of patient flow does not allow a sufficient level of experience to be obtained. The Ministry of Health has launched an initiative to optimise the hospital network, including preparations for public participation in strategic regional hospitals. I would like to emphasise that optimising the hospital network will not mean reducing the number of hospitals. The plan of the Ministry of Health is to provide a logically arranged hospital network that will allow patients to receive emergency care and primary care services closer to their residence, while the most complex operations and treatment - centres of excellence in regional hospitals and university hospitals. In cooperation with the Health Inspectorate and the Minister of National Health Services, hospitals have been visited and their activities have been evaluated. Moreover, not only the availability of services but also their quality has been assessed. The Ministry of Health plans to present a full report already at the end of this year. Another problem I would like to highlight is the activities of the largest hospitals in Latvia... with financial loss. They are based on tariffs for health services. Hospital managers have repeatedly made public and reported that hospital losses are mainly due to the fact that the State does not pay for the services performed in line with their real costs. While the state will not cover the real costs of health care services, the largest hospitals in Latvia that provide the most complex and expensive services will not work with profit. Any optimisation and reform of hospitals by the Ministry of Health will immediately result in funding being used to reduce hospital losses and to reduce financial gaps. The health situation is that more efficient and targeted use of funding (which remains catastrophicly insufficient) will not generate new money. This is not the case. I mean, I mean... This is not the case where an increase in salaries for doctors can be found with internal system alignment. This must be understood, and it must be the responsibility of the entire government, of all the Members of the Saeima, to work on the budget for next year. I call on you to reject the draft decision "On distrust to the Minister for Health Ilze Viņķelis" and to allow her to continue her work and to continue her work. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U53	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U54	Dear Members, Honourable Members! I will vote in favour with the Group. I will not try as expressive as Vjačeslav Dombrovskis to tell you what Ilze Viņķele has not done. I'm on the table so that while Ilze Viņķelė is a minister, I can thank you for the good she's done. I thank you for bringing her to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission meeting a representative of the World Health Organisation who put a mirror in front of Latvia's healthcare to show how sad the results of its functioning are to show all the Members who took part in the sitting and to show that this results are due to insufficient public funding. No other health minister has tried to raise this crust in the last seven years, the Latvian Health and Social Care Workers' Union has done so alone. I also thank you for the fact that in the Green Hall of the Cabinet of Ministers Ilze is the first to encourage the necessary money to be provided at the expense of the deficit. 12 men in the government did not do what one, but a wise and courageous woman, who, in fact, offered to start the battle against a plague which, for seven consecutive years, took away money from the economy, and thus also from health care. It is, in particular, a financial policy of strict austerity - the rust that eats the whole European Union's economic body, but, most importantly, the Member States that have the lowest per capita gross domestic product, and Latvia is among them. Thank you for proposing that Ilze reform the tax system in such a way that the amount redistributable from the budget is greater, that we should think about the increase in taxes. And, above all, the need to increase the tax on capital gains, which is now less than wages. Whatever the outcome of the political vote, I wish Ilze to remain determined so that the initiatives will continue and that they will continue with the government or beyond.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U55	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U56	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Minister! I had two feelings when I signed this request for resignation. First thing. There are, of course, arguments for, serious arguments for. First and foremost, that the law adopted by this Saeima has not been fulfilled. And that's so: even if society as a whole cannot now solidarity with the idea that doctors should have much more money, society as a whole agrees that the Saeima should not violate the laws that it itself has adopted. The other thing. Indeed, I also believe that it was a great mistake that the Minister cancelled the work of the previous government and actually eliminated the possibility of joining health insurance on a voluntary basis. In this way, inequalities are being further increased. Because those who work under the general tax regime and who have had one percentage increase in social contributions to health insurance pay more unfairly, receiving the same service as the part of the society that pays very little or almost nothing. Solidarity is a normal society. Those who can - they must help those who cannot. But if they also need to help those who do not want too much, it is already too much. I believe that the system that was being developed was perfect. Now it will be much more difficult, starting at zero. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Rībena: “On top of that, for the fourth time!” ) Third case. Mrs. Prime Minister, however, has done a great deal of work, too. We have heard a wide range of tasks that have already been accomplished. It's really highly valued, but... To-do... and also in the context of this underfunding... tax reform is being blamed. And I would also like to mention a few words about that. First. The objective of the tax reform was both to increase budget revenue, reduce inequality and increase competitiveness. To reduce inequalities. I have always said that tax reform cannot be used as the only instrument to reduce inequalities. That's impossible. Tax rates cannot achieve this on their own, so there must be a targeted social policy. It's a section... what we could and tried to do - we reduced the tax burden on smaller wages. There are defects coming, administration is difficult, but this at least led to an increase in the degree of progression. Secondly. Increasing competitiveness and decreasing budget revenues. The biggest drop in budget revenue occurs right now, in 2019, rather than in 2018, when we made use of the derogation to finance health. In 2018, there was no lack of money due to tax reform. The lack of money was due to the fact that the previous government had already divided the fiscal space for several years ahead. And we understood that the health sector needed money urgently, so we made use of a derogation, or yes, to increase the deficit by investing in health. The biggest drop this year is due to the fact that we have completely changed the corporate tax system. That can't be avoided, that's why many governments spoke earlier... Many countries have also talked about the fact that they want to introduce a reinvested profit tax system... i.e. zero interest rate... This is, in fact, difficult to do because there has been a huge drop in budget revenue from corporate tax for about two years. But what's the bonus? The competitiveness of entrepreneurs will be increased. And that's what we can see... I think that this goal has also been achieved and will be even better in the years to come. Investment is growing, the equity structure is indeed improving significantly for companies. It was that goal, and without it... I think that due to the tax reform, in fact, we have so rapid growth in the previous year - 4.8 percent. This year, 3.1, and next year, we are planning 2.7 percent, which is actually more than twice the growth rate in the European Union and the euro area on average. And for this reason, we can count at all on the fact that we have about 700 million extra money in the state budget. Therefore, they are arguments in favour of the depression. But I also understand that Mrs Viņķele is currently being used as a doll in which the needles are in order to hurt the whole government and the whole coalition. The only difference is that there's no pain in the doll or the Queen of Viņķele. Mr Kariņš, who does not really try to solve the problem - a lack of health funding - as a prime minister, does not hurt Mr. Kariņš, but puts it as a hot or burning match in her hand and finally says to Mrs. Viņķele: "Go home! Look for their money in your ministry!” With the help of the Prime Minister, this cannot really be done, because unless the coalition has agreed on one... the main priority, then, when drawing up the budget, money "flaps" in many small components, without doing big things. We see this in next year's budget, too, when it has been more important for the coalition to increase party funding - just this year. It has been more important for the coalition to hide political quotas in the form of a football court (as has already been mentioned), but not just... not focus on healthcare funding. Mrs Viņķele durot, for example, does not hurt a Member, Mr Skride, who, as the head of the commission responsible, led an amendment to the Health Finance Act in the Saeima after the elections in the Saeima and called for the draft law to be supported, and then the interviews also insisted that he would not support the next budget... budgets for the coming years without this increase in funding for the health sector. And this was done despite the fact that the Ministry of Finance had given a negative opinion and pointed out that it had no money and that it had to work very carefully to provide money... such promises... which is also in this year's budget... no budget for the following year. I think that very little has actually been done, for example, on the proposal for measures to combat the shadow economy or on the substance of a review of expenditure. Neither does it hurt Mr Bondara, who, as Head of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, instead of talking and forming the dialogue that the Minister mentioned (and indeed, without dialogue, even if unpleasant things are said, the result cannot be achieved), but, by putting his yellow clown on the table, actually humiliated those doctors who had come to the Commission's meeting, and in the media, proudly ironised that it was stupid to pass laws that could not be enforced, even though the laws had been passed. It does not hurt the coalition, nor does it hurt individual Members. But since we cannot, as Members, propose the resignation of the coalition council or the resignation of individual Members, it is for Mrs Viņķele to take responsibility and the request for it is for her precisely for the inaction of all the coalitions and colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U57	The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U58	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Members! Minister! I would like to talk about ICT and data in the healthcare context. In order for us to be able to ensure efficient administration of the healthcare system and to make decisions transparent, there must be a state-of-the-art ICT infrastructure and these decisions must be based on data. In order for us to be able to develop a service in health care, data today is a prerequisite that is targeted at citizens. Because this spectrum gives us a very wide range of possibilities to adapt individual services so that we can develop in general an effective, modern and time-consuming healthcare system. Here I have to note a number of things that the Ministry of Health has done under the leadership of Ilze Viņķele at this time. So, for example, I think it is a very important moment, which Mrs Viņķele also mentioned in her speech, that we are looking at what we have done before, in this case, ICT procurement. It is clear that these very many purchases have been dubious - and criminal proceedings have been initiated for the way in which these purchases were made. It was clear and not too good if it could be said, getting involved directly from the minister... the previous office of the Minister so that this procurement will take place... In that sense, this is a step forward for us to identify the shortcomings of the system that can be overcome. I would also like to point out that the National Health Service has a new manager, who has prioritised data and good governance (which I have already emphasised) and thus also a much more intelligent and understandable development of the eHealth system for all of us. It should be noted that the Ministry's initiative has led to a review of the future priorities for eHealth and its consistency with future plans, as we do have many challenges. If I don't lie, there were several in the spring... the areas of problem in which work is to be carried out. I am pleased that the Ministry really takes part, not only to solve these problems, but also to see how E-health could develop in the future. There is also an eHealth User Council, which, in my opinion, is a very important point in setting up such a system so that professionals in the sector are also involved. That we don't just figure out that, hey, we need such a system, let's figure out how we're going to beat it, wake it up... What kind of turn may have been in the past... But there really is a board with specialists, doctors, pharmacists, industry experts who know how the system should work and work. So I see that there are very clear elements and well done work, both on ICT and on data provision and availability in this sector. So that I call on all of us, my fellow Members, to allow Ilze Viņķelis to continue working. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U59	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U60	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Mrs. Viņķele! Today, you see how many supporters you have in your home group. It seems to me that many of the people who have spoken today and who have expressed their support for you can take the place of the Minister for Health. They are first elected Members. This is very important because right now, when the new composition of the European Commission is being formed in Brussels, Urzula von der Leien, President of the European Commission, stressed that, above all, all European Commissioners were elected first and foremost. They went through this voter filter. They are supported by the people. But if a minister who is so critical of a nation today... Why didn't she go to pick-up, why didn't she talk to them... activities? The thing is that, unfortunately, the pickets come to the House of the Saeima and blame us for what Mrs Viņķele has not done. We wanted to be fired for her. I think this is not fair, because the Ministry of Health is in Brīvības iela 72. Why didn't they go there? I think first of all the Minister has to be responsible for spending EUR 1.37 billion, or 4.1% of gross domestic product. I think that rarely one of the Latvian ministries has such a budget. We can only compare with the Ministry of Defence budget... led by... Also from the Liberal Party for Development/About!... Minister Artis Pabriks. It seems to me that it is precisely because Mrs. Viņķele does not have such a political... Let's say that, with political support, she can't get from other ministers... interaction and split this money... e.g. from the Ministry of Defence. How can we do so? For example, for each case Latvia must have resources, say, for treatment of injured soldiers, say it, blood resources, operating blocks, resources for evacuation, and so on. Tens of millions of euros are needed for this, and they can be received from NATO money, from the Ministry of Defence, but unfortunately two ministers from Development/About! you can't talk to each other. I can only wish the Minister one thing: strong health, so that after all it doesn't have to be treated with Latvian doctors. But for the time being, I will vote in favour of the resignation of this false government member.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U61	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U62	Hello, very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Highly respected Minister for Health! High honourable Members! I'm a little bit more... A little less than a year ago, getting into... taking over the post of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Health... I would say that I went to the Ministry of Health with such great interest to get to know, well, with many different... details, details, guidelines, plans... What the Ministry of Health does. If, at first, my opinion on what is happening in the Ministry of Health, including in the health sector as a whole, was about: “Well, there is a lot of money in the sector, a lot of millions, and it is just that everything is very strict and that all the problems will be resolved,” I have understood clearly and clearly in the course of months that very many things that are happening in our health are actually based on this person who works in the health sector, and I would like to say, in the Ministry of Health... the preparation of various plans and recommendations for civil servants’ enthusiasm, enormous experience and responsibility. And we don't even think... asking for solutions often inconceivable things... I wonder how fast these people can provide solutions. But there is one thing that really surprises me as a new Member. It is that we have countless plans, projects, actions and visions, but many, many of them remain half-enforced or unenforced in drawers for one reason. Because health care... and years for this sector - years! - there is a huge underfunding. If the funding allocated to health care from GDP has been almost twice the average for years in the Member States of the European Union, it is not surprising that the sector is facing growing problems and it is not surprising that doctors are protesting at the Saeima. I would also like to say that recently, in a public space, there has been an opinion that the Ministry of Health seems to have no plan to sort out the sector, how to make improvements to it. If such statements are made by a poorly informed citizen who has accidentally reached the Saeima, I am not surprised, but I am surprised if I hear something like that from politicians working in the Saeima for years, who know, however, that only a little over 3 percent of GDP has been devoted to healthcare for years. And they are basically the great critics and the demanders of the depression today, although in fact, as we know, they are the long-term politicians. In order to dispel this false message about the absence of a plan, I will list just a few of the most important plans: the Health System Reform Plan, which has been implemented since 2017, continues, and the 2020 budget also provides 144 million - not from the deficit, but from the general budget - in order to start and continue reforms in both oncology and improving access to services, and so on. A plan to improve healthcare services in oncology. That's... For 2020, we requested 5.6 million. Unfortunately, because of budgetary opportunities, not all these funds can be included in the 2020 budget. Rare diseases plan. This requires 7.6 million in 2020. We could have spent 3 million instead. Action plan to improve mental health. There is a need for 13.7 million in 2020. We've got - 3.8 million. For medicines to be compensated and centralised procurement, 38 million would be needed, but only 4.3 million could be spent. The plan to limit the spread of HIV, sexually transmitted diseases, hepatitis B and C in 2020 would require 3.5 million, but there are no budgetary options. The plan to limit antimicrobial resistance has actually been developed this summer and the concept of "one health" will finally be implemented in Latvia as well; in this respect, we will be among the other Member States of the European Union. I could call it more and more. In order to be able to carry out all these activities, the Ministry of Health had calculated the total additional necessary funding – 279 million of which 119,6 million were also intended for the necessary and promised increase in medical salaries. Monitoring of hospital levels, plan to improve access to services, revision of residency programmes, development of a new remuneration model, evaluation of hospital activities. At the same time, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that there is often an argument in the public space that health requires a comprehensive audit to ensure that the funds are used efficiently. The system is being audited continuously. This is also happening at the present time. One audit, such abstract audit, is neither rational nor possible throughout the sector, as it will be superficial. The health sector is very complex and consists of very many different sections that need to be audited separately, and this is happening. We have also been pointed out on several occasions by experts from the World Bank and the European Commission where improvements are needed. The previous audit reports, recommendations and conclusions are very well known to us, as well as available to the general public and can be found on the website of the National Health Service. All of them as one... Through all of them... There is one message going through: insufficient funding for health care. This sector has been evaluated by these foreign experts at the request of the Ministry of Health. Their conclusions are already being used actively, making... very strategic, important decisions in the ministry. In addition, OECD experts will soon arrive in Latvia to evaluate health care services. We will be more aware of what has been done and what still needs to be done. Let's keep you informed. The Ministry of Health also follows the recommendations of both Competition Council and State Audit Office; these experts also monitor health care. Colleagues! It is really difficult for me to imagine which sector would have started such far-reaching reforms and received so many recommendations. A little more about tariffs. The Minister has already mentioned, but... Estimated by converting all the tariffs that we have... More than 4 thousand... The state may not pay hospitals annually... more... It's about... about 400 million. In many areas, patients... In fact, hospital admission is at a disadvantage because the State does not cover the real costs of treatment. How do we ask hospitals, as state capital companies, for good financial performance in this situation? In this situation, a patient-centred approach automatically falls behind, because the patient is not profitable but is financially disadvantaged for the hospital. Every day he's in a hospital bed, he's making a loss to the hospital. At the moment, the Ministry has changed and amended, as the Minister for Health has said, 400 tariffs, but unfortunately not all of us can include, because they require additional funding. For example, the 2020 budget needed 26 million to introduce these new, converted tariffs only. The facts are speaking, colleagues, by themselves. For example, the 2018 budget for Riga Eastern Clinical University Hospital was 118 million euros, the 2018 budget for Tallinn Central Hospital (which is very similar in volume) was 250 million euros. So we spend almost... on our health. half as much! Dear colleagues! A split on whether we are finally ready to invest at least the minimum necessary money in the health of our citizens is not just ours, “Development/About!” Members, the determination. It is the determination of all the Saeima and of all the people of our country. I believe I really believe, and I am sure that the good will expressed in December 2018 and the amendment made in 2018... Health Care Financing Act 2018... that it has not decreased. This good will, I can say with confidence, in my heart and in “Development/About!” Members have remained in the hearts and we still believe that there is a need to increase funding for health care in the coming years and that this issue needs to be resolved with regard to promises to raise medical wages. You know, my colleagues, I'm thinking of that comparison. We've got... and I address here mainly the new Members elected for the first time to the Saeima. We've happened this time as a young citizen, who for the first time received a salary and very happy went to the shop to buy everything for his life, the new life he'll start. When he comes to the cash register, he finds that, unfortunately, only half of the goods he has taken are sufficient. And we're still standing at this cash desk and we don't understand what to do now - whether to put these goods back or still to ask the shop for credit, or to find funding... Now I don't know, go and ask your mom... If we are talking specifically about citizens... This resolution, I say again, colleagues, is the resolution between us and the new policies. These old men... and I realize that it can happen to a person who goes to the store for the first time and spends his salary. How, though, can a person go to the shop for the tenth and twentieth time? It's hard for me to imagine that. Finally, and realising that the 2020 budget, on which we have voted, is going to have more than 200 million health care, because it finally has 114 million reforms launched without the deficit, plus 68 million in addition... This means money for the industry. That is why the budget is, in fact, good. However, the issue of the lack of funding, which was addressed in the Health Finance Act, is, in my opinion, a question of the integrity, respect and accountability of our policies and of the new policies, and this is something that we must address together, colleagues. I strongly oppose the request for distrust to the Minister for Health. She has started her work very well and calls for a vote against the request for a resignation. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U63	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U64	Hello, colleagues! Dear Minister, When assessing Ilze Viņķele's activities as Minister for Health, I will begin with the question of political consistency. Mrs Viņķele said very strongly during her election campaign that she would fight for the abolition of two baskets, and she did so. And I could not do that precisely because I was in a similar position to that. Thank you very much for that. I would also like to express two thanks today. Within the framework of the 2019 budget, I tabled an amendment... on the allocation of 211 thousand euros to the Latvian Transplantation Centre for the development of a certified tissue compatibility laboratory. This would allow our country to finally join the Scandia transplant and ensure that our people who need heart, liver, kidney, lung transplantation can survive; they will be found legal donors in accordance with the highest European standards. As you well remember, all the opposition proposals were rejected at that time, in spring, this year, but despite this, the Ministry of Health had found this money, and this money has been allocated to the Latvian Transplantation Centre within the framework of the budget for 2020. Thank you very much to the Ministry for this. The second case concerned a member of the public... my proposal and Mr Pimenova's proposal for funds for so-called'medicine feed'. It is the feed that is given to a person who cannot eat, intravenously or through a probe. If it weren't done, a person would just die in starvation. The cost of these mixtures is between €300 and €500 per month. Mr Pimenova proposed to allocate EUR 1 million for this purpose. I asked for a small sum of EUR 164 000 to be able to provide medical food for people who lack this money. The proposal was rejected. But if you were looking at the Ministry of Health's website now, you'd find a message that next year, the Ministry of Health will prepare solutions within the framework of the sectoral budget to launch the state-paid... payment of the combination of enteral and parenteral nutrition to outpatients. This will prevent the patient from purchasing the necessary special diet for financial reasons when leaving the hospital. Thank you very much to the Ministry of Health for this too. It is an example that personality plays a certain role in policy making. Another question is whether it is good practice. Is it a good practice that very much needed things that affect Latvian citizens are introduced in secret, black passage - not legally through the budget, but only due to the care of employees of certain ministries? Unfortunately, therefore, as my fellow Members have already said, the 'yes' vote will be taken today by Mr Viņķele, because, unfortunately, the role of personality in this government is worth zero. Overall, this government, and therefore, unfortunately, the Minister for Health, has led the health sector to the crisis. Let me just mention that there are currently 3,500 nurses in Latvia, 100 doctors leave Latvia every year. Patients pay almost 45 percent of medical services from their pocket. Therefore, we will vote in favour of the demission as a sign of distrust for the entire Cabinet of Ministers of Kariņš and... its legal nihilism. Thank you. ( Internoint.) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U65	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U66	Dear colleagues, Dear Minister, As a health system user with the highest length of experience, as a son and grandfather of doctors I could talk about reform, about problems in healthcare hours. But today the story is not about it. Today's story isn't about medical salaries either. Today's story is about political responsibility. Political responsibility is for processes that take place in various sectors, health care, including planned activities, results, for everything else, but the highest political responsibility (and not only political) is for compliance with legal norms in the country. If we have not observed one of the many legal norms, it is political irresponsibility. When colleagues from Development/About! Ministers are defending today, it's the right thing to do, but it should have been done not here in the Saeima... This should have been done in the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers when it was about the draft budget. There should have been a strict demonstration of our position as to whether we are defending the rules of law, whether we are asking for them to be respected in the country with our "uncompromising rule of law" or not. That is why, first and foremost, it is a question of political responsibility. And medical (and not just medical) protests refer to... What about the Saeima... they are directed not only against the fact that there was no increase in salaries for doctors or anyone else, but here it is about how the Saeima and the government could dare not meet the standards they have accepted. That is the question, it is the essence of the question, and it is the price to be paid for political responsibility and irresponsibleness. Mrs. Viņķele really... not just what she said here today about her plans and plans... Yes, that is something to be supported. But in this case, voting... The vote on the expression of trust or distrust is the price that must be paid directly for political responsibility. I personally believe that this is such an important moment for society as a whole and for the Saeima, above all, that this depression should be supported. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U67	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U68	Dear colleagues, Returning back - today for the second time - to the question of raising the salaries of healthcare workers, I would like to add that this is not just a question of the fact that the statutory increase in wages for healthcare workers is not included in the budget and has all been brought to the attention of the entire coalition, the President and the Cabinet of Ministers. And at the beginning of this unscrupulous righteousness, "Will we have it!" , then “Well, let’s look again!” and so on, and it's still - it really looks very embarrassing. The question is that you are currently trying to strengthen the principle (you have already done so with the help of Mr Levite) that you are not covered by the law. That you can deceive doctors today, tomorrow you can deceive teachers, tomorrow - pensioners, then - firemen, police. You will be absolutely no matter what you will be deceived next time, because this situation will not in any way reflect your life. You plan Christmas holidays, think about how you will continue to celebrate and what you will do; you have no idea what chaos you have created in the country. You hope that the medical protests are like such a disgusting child. Well, you're gonna panic, look at the corner, eat the door and then do what you expected of him, calm down. You think that society can be calmed down in this way, simply ignoring what is happening at the moment? But this is a very dangerous principle because... In fact, doctors are not just fighting for themselves. They are struggling not only for having a slightly higher salary with January 1; they are now standing for the whole society. For the entire society that you can deceive with a light hand tomorrow and the day, and so on, because this violation will be forgiven to you. Mrs Viņķele, of course, is responsible for the fact that she asked too quietly in the Cabinet, called too quietly for an information report and agreed that she simply refused. But it may have been different. It may have been different. The conservatives may have asked for an increase in medical salaries at the expense of the deficit when drawing up the budget. It may have been. And it may be that when Conservatives asked for it, “Development/About!” did not reply in any way or join in this request. It may have been. And it may be that this desperate request by Mrs. Viņķele to increase the deficit... Recently, now... has only come because there was this request for resignation. Everything can be because your talks on the coalition board are not already open and we can only read individual opinions. Listening very carefully to what Mrs. Viņķele's colleagues have said, I also agree with Mr Dolgopolova's report that the industry needs funding, that medical salaries need increased funding... It could have really felt like in October, when it was the last stage of the budgetary process. And Mr Dūris had to say this in essence not only here, in the tribunal, in October, but also in the Cabinet. We do not know if this happened. And, of course, it was very interesting to know that Mrs Viņķele is not the most excluded politician. It was very valuable. And it was particularly valuable to know that Mrs. Viņķele's colleagues thought... assess its suitability for the post, depending on the vehicle with which she is moving. That was also very interesting. If she were to move with a yellow, her ratings would probably be even higher. Because in this case, the bike is the driving vehicle that allows you to trust the warmness of Mrs. Viņķele. But if you're serious, it's about arrogance. To the arrogance of the Minister. She calls on simple doctors themselves to go and look for money, then she tries to increase the budget deficit, and its twitching, so the inconsistency that is observed is really a sign of very bad practice. That is why we are also calling for support for Mrs Viņķele's depression, because we believe that there have been a great deal of mistakes in the sector. This legal nihilism, which you, fellow Members of the coalition, observe and hope that you will continue to do so, must be brought to an end!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U69	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U70	I will not try to convince you to vote differently. Support the flight! And, of course, I will not try to convince you to vote in favour of Ms Viņķele's resignation. But I mean, that's the world that doesn't change. Centuries ago this world was crossed for our sins, but now we are trying to “stuck” Mrs. , because you see, we have not found sufficient funding for the health sector. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “You have violated the law!” ) I can tell you, no matter how you vote, and no matter where you sit - left, right, centre - we do not escape the situation in the coming years to find additional funding for healthcare... In other case, otherwise there will be - in Latvian speaking - oats! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Riena: “No one believes in healthcare in the national system anymore!” ) I can tell you that it is our duty, as politicians, to do everything in our power to have this funding and that Mrs Viņķele can work with this funding as professionally and as efficiently as it has been so far. Because otherwise... Colleagues, we did not give Mrs. Viņķele the mandate of a miracle, we gave the mandate of a Minister for Health (Dep. I. Wrinkle: “To break down the system!” ), and the mandate of the Minister of Health cannot create miracles if there is no funding. Colleagues, I call on us not to support distrust to Minister Viņķelis and, in turn, to support additional funding for healthcare when it is available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U71	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U72	Today's gloomy discussion, when the law adopted by this Parliament is not being followed, and when people who have voted against today - such as Ilmārs Dūritis, who have voted against today, such as Mārtiņš Bondars, who have voted against today, such as Dr. Andris Skride, who has voted against the increase in medical salaries today, as in the case of All Development/About! , which today has voted against the increase in medical salaries. Today, on this gloomy note, I would like to... with such a bright view of the future. One ancient anecdotes came to my mind, which is applicable to this situation. Thus, the anecdot is about to talk to two friends, and one dissatisfiedly says to the other: “You know, I’m going to divorce my husband, the minister.” - “Why?” “Because he just stands by the bed all the time and promises that it will be very good!” There are also promises from Development/About! , from the New Unity, from the KPP and from Mrs Viņķele. It is promised and promised. I can read these promises that have been in the run-up campaign. The new conservative party - doctors' salaries of at least EUR 1700 per hand, nurses' salaries of at least EUR 800 per hand. ( From the UK Group: “Where are the coffers? ” ) Next, next. Development/About!... I'm not going to talk about the English that will be taught Viņķelis over the course of the year. I will only talk about what Dr. Skride said on television and wrote in his four thousand sign programme: “Let’s double the salaries of nurses”. Today he voted 'no' to raise the salaries of nurses, but before the elections he promised that only! The new Unity promises: “Free annual health prevention”. New Unity... For 10 years... promises to improve health! ‘ [...] quality and access to health care” throughout Latvia, “United National Health Standards...”. This, too, seems to me to be being promised: “The prices of medicines are being reduced...”. The neighbor spoke before the elections about the prices of medicines from morning to evening. But it was at the time when he had not joined the UK Group, when he still had his own party. At that time, he spoke about it. Now no more, now just with Strick in the corners, there's something... they're talking. That's the only thing. I would like to remind you that here is the 'new' coalition that is against those oligarchs and all that. Such older Members will certainly remember in 1995-1997, when the first and second governments of the oligarch Andra Skele had such a Minister of Health Juris Viņķelis, the husband of Ilze Viņķele, by the way, if (interim.) ... At that time, it was. Since 1995, what improvement do we have in health care? None. Because... I have the feeling that, in our society, some people are experiencing democracy... Well, in their sense... Well, something like a monarchy... that it is either inherited or transferred through a marriage contract or something like that. In democracy, the will of the people to do... By the way, you will not find, Mr Stein, any country in Scandinavia, any country of highly developed democracy, where a politician would have been deleted to the last place... that he would have the prospect of becoming a minister at all. It's not... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And you boasted that Mrs Viņķele was not her own, the most unpopular minister. I would like to say to you: if we accept your logic, Mr. Stein, then... At the start of the elections (I have just looked at the statistics on the website of the Central Electoral Commission), Andris Kivičs was three times more popular than Viņķelis. (Laughter) Then Andris Kivičs should have been in Viņķele's place if we chose by your logic who should become a health representative. But the most important thing I want to say - Mrs Viņķele has promised - she has promised not only this year, but not only last year, but since 1995 she has promised - that life here will be beautiful and rosary. And it's like that anecdotes: maybe at last it's time to divorce. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U73	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U74	Thank you, colleagues, for all of you, especially the Members from "Development/About!" . You are here today to strengthen parliamentary democracy and take part in the debate, which is such a rare exception to the ministerial resignation. And indeed your arguments today were many. You defended your ministers. However, I would like to say that what the Minister has done is what the Minister has really done! - and what has been such a really political decision... has been only one - to opt out of the two basket system, to switch to one, to opt out of voluntary payments. And... Mr Durish mentioned in his speech - and I can only join him - that the Ministry of Health is very high... professionals work, really there are excellent staff. I can safely say today: if we voted, for example, in the village of Artus, on the Minister for Health, you could come here today just as well and tell us how much health has been done, because simply the Ministry is not in place, the Ministry is working. The main question is: where is the policy based on facts, the reasoning based on facts? The fact is that we all voted in favour of raising salaries for doctors, and the fact is that you voted in favour of a budget that does not comply with this law. And that is what we are talking about, and that is what we are talking about today, and that is your most direct responsibility. Therefore, I call on the ministers to become more involved and indeed to steer those political initiatives that she is talking about so much, to talk less, to do more and, if she refuses to do something, to put it in place too! To say "A" is very simple, it is very popular - to make popular decisions - but to do it unpopular - it is unfortunately something that we have not expected from you. So in this case, I can't see the difference between Artus and Ilzi Viņķelis. Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Thank you!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U75	Name to Member Daniel Pavilut.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U76	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members! Honourable Members! How many minutes do I have, 15 minutes, huh? I'll say three things today. First of all, a few words about Ilzi Viņķelis as a human being. I know little people who would say the truth so often. Many people do not like this quality, and perhaps someone could claim it. that this quality is one that also creates a minuses, and at all, that politicians should not do so. But Ilze is. Ilze “do not speak tits”, her own words speaking... And let me remind you... Not all of us may have heard that at that time, but last December 13, Ilze warned us all that we should not make such a decision. Ilze also warned in the first half of the year that, without a fundamental review of the revenue side of the state budget, a promise such as the one that we, 90 of us, voted on on 13 December last year, would probably not be possible to deliver. So what I mean is how a man, Ilze Viņķele, is very well suited to doing the work she is doing right now. Ilze is not afraid of reforms, Ilze is a man who is ready to go to the result and overcome various difficulties. Now it's about qualifications. That's the other thing. I think Ilze Viņķele is uniquely qualified to do the work that needs to be done in the field of healthcare in Latvia. One of the burdens that has persecuted this sector in recent years is that it has been represented by so-called ministers of the sector, meaning that they have represented the interests of the sector itself or some parts of the sector, not the interests of Latvian society. Ilze Viņķele is neither a doctor nor a pharmacist in the pharmaceutical industry, but Ilze Viņķele has a Master's degree in public health management. Perhaps Ilze Viņķele is the most qualified minister and the most suitable minister for reforms, some independent Latvian... there has been at this stage. Now one aspect of health reforms, which may have been somewhat less off-set today and which, of course, can also be attributed to the fact that Ilze Viņķelė is directly qualified and understands the management of the health care system. It is an area of governance that I am, of course, also personally close to. I would remind you that one of the good works we have done in this Saeima is: we amended the law on the management of shares and companies of a public person, inter alia, by providing that large state-owned companies will no longer have the option... the choice made by Minister Belēvičs if I am not wrong about the fact that it is not mandatory for the big hospitals to make councils and help the Secretary of State to look after these huge companies, to provide effective health care for these huge organisations for the state budget money. Ilze Viņķele did not wait until the amendments to the law came into force, to start the formation of these councils and to attract international candidates, and the result at the moment is that these three university hospital councils have been applied for, if I am not mistaken, for 80 candidates, including from abroad - the highest qualification people with experience in hospital management in other countries. And I very much hope that, in January, the composition of the councils that will be appointed will be pleasantly surprised and that it will be a step forward so that Latvia's big university hospitals are managed effectively and that there is no doubt about it... that we will lack the capacity to see how meaningful the state budget is spent and how and at what pace the quality and availability of services for Latvian citizens is improved. In conclusion, I will therefore call not only for the 'no' vote on the Ilze Viņķele Demission, but for the 'no' vote on the Ilze Viņķele Demission to vote on the 'yes' reforms in healthcare. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U77	Member Jānis Krišāns applied for the debate. Would you have had seven minutes? Name to Member Janis Krishan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U78	Dear President of the Saeima. Minister! Honourable Members! I didn't mean to talk, but... What we're talking about is what the doctors are listening to, and those who are here today also listen... who are not here, but who are in hospitals and fighting for human lives. Here the Minister said she was told that there were doctors sleeping at work. I got a call from a surgeon who really sleeps at work because he's working in three more hospitals, he's not going home for weeks. He said that he was the “criminal element” that, after having severe surgery, remained overnight with his patient and lay next to the Chamber. What our oldest Member said, I respect. It's not about medical wages today, it's about we've lost a whole generation of medical doctors, they've left. Today we are talking about the fact that we do not have children's eye doctors, we have to wait in the queue. No paediatric cardiologists. There are no endocrinologists in the regions. No haematology is available. Six months must stand in line. Today we are talking about it, it is about the despair that the doctors are looking at in everyday life: huge lines towards prosthesis, scheduled operations that lack money. Many things don't have enough money. Today, it is also about people who are retired are unable to buy medicines, they are going to family doctors for weeks, and when they get to hospitals, it costs the country much more. I think this coalition needs to understand that medicine needs money. There are many problems. I think there will be no miracle today and the Minister will remain in office. I want to wish her... Hopefully she knows that reforms are needed. Cardinal reforms are needed. We're stuck... We're hundreds of thousands... print some booklets for European money, reminding us of health. And maybe... It's about the mammography... Perhaps some motivation is needed to make it compulsory, as in those bad Soviet times, for every woman to come once a year. So, when there weren't all those cancer cases... Don't be like today: come to the doctor when the fourth stage is already, and the doctor is desperate. ( Internouncing call.) Yeah. Thank you. I look forward to common sense.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U79	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U80	I would just like to say a brief rejoinder to what Daniel Pavilut said, who was proud of Mrs. Viņķele. On competence speaking, the replica is as follows. For us, Mrs Viņķele has been Minister for Welfare, and since then inequalities and the number of people at risk of poverty have only increased. I wouldn't really want us to get to health... in the same sad statistics... to be precise, even worse than we are now, so it is absolutely impossible to accept that a man who has promised for 10 years but has not seen any change in his life... that now will be the miracle tool that will help solve everything. But it's the smallest. The biggest thing I want to stress. In no highly developed democracy, in any Scandinavian country, you will never see yourself as a minister, firstly, who has been deleted even in his party to the last place, and secondly, in no highly developed democracy, in any Scandinavian country, you will not see a minister who does not take political responsibility at a time when the law is not being enforced. We will not see in any developed democracy and in any Scandinavian country that there is a parliament and that there is a government that does not comply with the laws in force and considers, as in Orwell's novel, that everyone is equal, but some are more equal than others. And in this particular case, this is not acceptable in a democratic way and, as you say, in a "uncompromising rule of law" society. It is not “uncompromising justice”, it is cynicism, it is nihilism, and it is just such an empty promise - so for Development/About! Daniel Pavļuta promised everyone to teach English at the forefront, so now he promises that Minister Viņķele will put his health care system in order. It will not, and it will never happen, because historical experience says that Minister Viņķele has not done what he has promised in other periods of her past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U81	Dear colleagues, Members Strīķe, Dzintars, Pavļuts, Latkovskis and Petraviča ask for a break by 15.15. Do Members have objections? Time to break. Please call me! I request the registration of the presence of Members. Name for Maria Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, to report on the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U82	Not registered: Aldis Adamovičs, Uldis Augulis, Jānis Adamsons, Dace Bluķe... Yes, John Butan, Anda Chakša, Vjačeslav Dombrovskis... I mean, Artuss Kaimiņš, Ieva Krapāne... The neighbor is... Ieva Krapāne, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Vladimir Nikonov, Evija Papule... And, Ivan Ribakov... Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U83	Thank you. Interruption until 15.15 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U84	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall continue the debate after a break. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U85	They're not afraid they won't get a vote? Hello, colleagues! I have listened to all of this debate, and I have one satirical programme coming to my mind, which starts about like this... that we live in the most amazing country in the world. In a country where the law may not be enforced and there will be nothing to do about it. In a country where doctors have the opportunity to work twice as much overtime as is normally provided for by law, they will not be paid for it as is provided for. In the country where to buy... Suddenly hospital construction estimates can grow twice... almost twice as large as it was at the beginning, and it will be normal. In a country where many million IT purchases can be made in healthcare and then these projects do not work, but there will be nothing to do about it, one million more will be provided to cover up these omissions. In a country where annual service tariffs do not correspond to real costs and thus distort the services market and create the ground for corruption (and so for years!) . In a country where funding is being given to the healthcare sector, but no one can tell where it really is going. In a country where hospitals cannot buy what they should buy, but buy what officials say, and buy from those from whom fairy tale officials... the story of which you have to buy. Tell me, Mrs. Viņķele, who is responsible for all this? If all you have told you here today is just a story, a lie to deceive the public, then it would be your duty to come here and explain why this is still the case, because in principle there have always been the same people, the same parties. If you can't come now and explain why this is the situation and how you will address it, specifically these challenges, it means that you're just lying, continuing to lie, because you're not going to do anything... in principle, you are already responsible for the situation in the healthcare sector. This situation is allowed just like an oncological disease - in one of the last stages now. If you don't come and say it now, you will simply have assured the general public that they are the current lies, the current promises that you won't. I call on you to dispel my words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U86	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U87	Hello, colleagues! I would like to begin by congratulating the Group on Development/Par! . You, the whole group, have been honoringly defending your ministers. And I think it's really a team job. But if you're talking about a coalition, is there a coalition at all? What are they? What are they doing here? Why are they silent, everyone else? What have you all done? You've stolen money for medical staff and put it in your pockets - for party funding! ( Internouncing call.) And now you're silent! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U88	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on distrust for the Minister of Health Ilze Viņķelis! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 30, 52, abstaining. - No. The draft decision is rejected. Draft decision “On the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Jānis Tutina from the Commission for Sustainable Development”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Jānis Tutina from the Commission for Sustainable Development”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the withdrawal of Evija Papules, member of the Saeima from the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the withdrawal of Evija Papule, the Saeima Member from the Commission for Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On Election of the Saeima Member Jānis Tutinas to the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Election of the Saeima Member Jānis Tutinas to the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Evija Papule, member of the Saeima, to the Commission for Sustainable Development. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Evija Papule, member of the Saeima, to the Commission for Sustainable Development! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Requests received by Members. Dear colleagues, We have received a request from Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Armands Krauze, Raimonds Bergmanis, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Gundars Dauges, Māra Kučinska, Jūlija Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Alda Gobzems and Didžis Šmits to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš about the information campaign of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Puces. According to the parliamentary roll of order, this request has been distributed and made available to all Members... ( Internouncing call.) You can't talk, no. Consequently, we shall refer the request to the Requesting Commission. Examination of draft laws. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act’, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U89	Hello, fellow Members, again! In the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, we have examined the draft law “Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act”. Four proposals have been received. 1. - a proposal of a editorial and technical nature of the legal office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U90	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U91	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative specification of the norm. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U92	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U93	3. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. Editative specification of the norm. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U94	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U95	4. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The references to other regulatory acts shall be specified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U96	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U97	I call for support to be given to this draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U98	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax" at second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Restriction of Pornography”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U99	Dear colleagues, In the third, final reading, we see the draft law "Amendment to the Law on the Restriction of Pornography". I would like to inform you that no proposals have been received in accordance with Rule 95 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure. ( Interface: How will we limit it if there is no proposal?) ) On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, I call for support for the third, final reading of the draft law on the ‘Amendment to the Law on the Restriction of Pornography’. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U100	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendment to the Law on the Restriction of Pornography" in the third, final reading! (Laughter) Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Declaration of Residence”, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Eriks Pucens.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U101	Hello, colleagues! The National Administration and Municipal Commission worked with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Declaration of Residence” before the third reading. With the support of the Commission, I call on the draft law... I'm sorry! No proposals have been received. I call for support for the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U102	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Declaration of Residence” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on the Protection and Management of the Marine Environment’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Mr Daniel Pavluts.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U103	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has prepared for third reading draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection and Management of the Marine Environment”. No proposals were received for the third reading. I call for support for the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U104	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Protection and Management of the Marine Environment! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Veterinary Medicine”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U105	Hello, colleagues! We consider the draft law “Amendments to the Veterinary Medicine Act”. 13 proposals were submitted to the third reading. Let's start looking at it. The first proposal has been tabled by Members Lībiņa-Egnere and... Other. Partly supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U106	Partly supported, included in proposal 2. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U107	I applied for a debate on this proposal because I am very pleased about the importance of the issue. Today we do not decide and vote in principle against the most important issue that should be decided in Latvia: it is a question of medical wages. The coalition has voted that we will not look at this. What do we decide? What will we vote on? What will the coalition now vote in favour? That ferrets will have passports to travel if. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Coll: “The world does not stop with your own desires!” ) It is very likely that this is related to the previous Development/About! a proposal for those travel passports. And? That is why we are looking at the issue of ferrets passports today. It seems to me that its priority between ferrets passports and medical pay is a little different. And that's also the vote... We should, let us say, place our emphasis on the remuneration of doctors, not on this issue as a more important item on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U108	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova. ( The box “Redina, tell them! ”) ; “Speak everything you think!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U109	However, I will defend my ferrets (Laughter) - that they have the right to a passport. And this issue is really very important in this law. I invite everyone to look at our proposals to make sure that this is the case.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U110	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis. ( Insight: “What will you say about ferrets? ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U111	Dear colleagues, Well, I... I am sorry that the Saeima Members... The Member has so much... such a very superficial understanding of what veterinary medicine is and what the veterinary medicine law means. But on the specific proposal. I would call for the partial support and inclusion of this proposal in proposal 2, because overall... I would like to say what these amendments to the Veterinary Medicine Act are. In fact, they will promote the responsibility of animal owners. In fact, they will increase the responsibility of the dog owner in Latvia if the dog harms a third party (e.g. a member of society). On the other hand, missing pets will be able to be found and returned to legal owners more quickly. The amendments provide that, from three months of age onwards, the puppy will have to be a document recognised by the Member States of the European Union, the European Union pet passport, which is the only document available at the same time for all information on the owner, the vaccination and the health status of the animal, including the microchip number and the place of administration of the animal. The law will also provide that after entering the microchip it will have to be registered in the national single register at the Latvian Data Centre, and it will have to be done by the animal at the age of four months. At the same time, we can reassure those dog owners who have already received an old document - a dog vaccination certificate - that new certificates will no longer be issued in January 2020, but the document that has been received so far will not have to be changed either. Hence, it is wrong to think that the designation of animals, animal health, does not in any way affect society and anyone living in any part of the world. Animals interact with us, and order keeping in the laws governing animals, including the law on veterinary medicine, is very important. I call on my colleagues to vote... with the commission... There was a lot of discussion in the Commission about these amendments... and support the decision of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U112	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U113	I understand, of course, that the issue of ferrets is important. But what is not clear to me as a man to whom, as Duritis apparently says, from veterinary medicine is not all - I do not understand one thing: why this law does not regulate what is related to the liability of the Yenoth owners. Why only ferrets? Why such discrimination? ( Milestones.) This is a very important issue. And that's the question today, when the doctors protest on the street in pretty cool time and say they're cheated... I think we're in this room... in this platform really the most important thing to talk about today is the responsibility of the six-owners or the Yenoth owners and... the matter of chipping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U114	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U115	I would like to point out that, with these amendments, as well as with the amendments to the Animal Protection Law, an inter-group group worked. It was a rare case that both the positions and the opposition members were united and that a large number of animal protection organisations supported the proposals. If one of you had been present at the discussions, where there was a lack of space to participate in the discussion, you would understand that this is really a matter that concerns tens of thousands of people in Latvia. I must point out that this proposal, which you will now vote on, is only partly from our thoughts and partly from the proposal of animal protection organisations. It doesn't... Unfortunately, however, one of the fields of the shadow economy will continue to exist in Latvia, namely, the sale of puppies without any contribution to the state budget... when selling puppies without chipping, registration and so on. Yes, it is recorded there that such an obligation is - to register the puppy up to the age of four months. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Geidan: “How much does it cost? How much does it cost?’ ) But no administrative penalty is currently provided for. This is the next challenge that will have to be done. We will certainly achieve this in order to return to this issue and incorporate this provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U116	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what can be briefly added?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U117	I recall that proposal 1 has been partly supported and incorporated into proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U118	Is any of the Members who have debated asking for a vote? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of 1. - Members Lībiņa-Egnere and other proposals submitted. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 2, for - 49, for - 21. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U119	2. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Grassberg. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U120	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U121	3. - a proposal from Members Lībina-Ener and others. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U122	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U123	4. - a proposal from Members Lībina-Ener and others. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U124	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U125	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U126	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U127	6. - Member's Money proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U128	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U129	7. - a proposal from Members Lībina-Ener and others. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U130	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U131	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U132	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U133	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U134	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U135	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U136	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U137	Whole book... ( Internouncing call.) I'll be right there! 11. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U138	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U139	12. - a proposal from a group of Members. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U140	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U141	And 13. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U142	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U143	Please approve the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U144	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Veterinary Medicine Law” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs asks for amendments to the agenda of the sitting and draft law “Amendments to the law on maternity and sickness insurance” and draft law “Amendments to the law on unemployment insurance” to be included on the agenda before the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the law on the property status of natural persons and the declaration of undeclared income”. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The order of business is changed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Andris Skride.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U145	Colleagues! The aim of the draft law is to determine the sickness benefit for one of the parents of the child from 1 January of next year... the parent who does not work in relation to the child’s disease. At the moment, this is only possible until 21 days; it is planned to be able to do so for up to 26 weeks... upon a decision of a doctor's consilium at the Children's Clinical University Hospital. The draft law is agreed with the Children’s Clinical University Hospital. This also includes the fact that children who have reached the age of 15 and are employed are subject to social insurance as workers or self-employed. Until now, parents have only paid sickness benefit for caring for a sick child if the child had not reached the age of 14. It is now envisaged that the sickness benefit should also be paid to parents after the child has reached the age of 14 - up to the age of 18. The draft law is linked and is to be moved in conjunction with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Unemployment Insurance”. Based on the entry into force of the amendments on 1 January 2020, the Commission is asking to support the urgency of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U146	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, 19, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U147	Deadline for the submission of proposals...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U148	Pa, pa, we just recognised the bill as an urgent... The Commission is therefore asking for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U149	Yeah, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U150	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the draft law at first reading was supported. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U151	Member States shall communicate to the Commission the text of the main And consideration of the Saeima sitting - 5 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U152	What December? 5, huh? What December?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U153	December 5th.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U154	December 5th. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 29 November this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 5 December this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Unemployment Insurance”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Andris Skride.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U155	The draft law is related to the previous draft law. Its aim is to improve the procedure for calculating the average wage of insurance contributions and to align it with the average wage for other social benefits. In particular, as from 1 January 2022, the amount of unemployment benefit will be taken into account for the purpose of determining the amount of the person’s contribution for a period of 12 calendar months at the end of that period four months before the acquisition of the status of unemployed person. It is currently established that the period in question expires two months before the acquisition of the status of unemployed person. The draft law also clarifies the delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to issue regulations on the procedure and conditions of calculation of the average salary of insurance contributions. The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs has examined the draft law and asks for it to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U156	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Unemployment Insurance”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 55, it's against - 23, it's not. Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U157	The Commission is also asking to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U158	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Unemployment Insurance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 55, it's against - 22, it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U159	The deadline for submitting proposals is November 29, this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 5 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U160	The deadline for submitting proposals is November 29, this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 5 December this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Declaration of Property of Natural Persons and Undeclared Income”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Lubova Švecova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U161	The budget and financial (tax) commission examined the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on the Declaration of Property of Natural Persons and Undeclared Income’. One was examined in the Commission: the proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Editable. Supported by the Commission. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U162	Members support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U163	Please support the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U164	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Declaration of Property Status and Undeclared Income of Natural Persons” third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Press and Other Media”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Boris Cilevičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U165	Dear colleagues, Three proposals have been submitted to the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Press and Other Media””. All three were submitted by the Legal Office. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U166	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U167	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U168	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U169	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U170	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U171	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U172	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Press and Other Media”” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U173	Deadline for submission of proposals - 3 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U174	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 3 December this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Public Service Regulators”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U175	We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Service Regulators”. This draft law is related to the so-called decoding of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code. Six proposals have been received for the third reading. All proposals of a editorial nature by the Legal Bureau. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U176	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U177	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U178	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U179	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U180	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U181	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U182	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U183	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U184	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U185	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U186	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U187	I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U188	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Public Service Regulators”” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U189	December 3rd
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U190	The deadline for submitting proposals is 3 December this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on General Education”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Raivis Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U191	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law on the amendment to the General Education Act. This draft law is related to the next – the draft law “Amendments to the Education Law” – and, in fact, requires municipalities to ensure the acquisition of pre-school education programmes in the state language in all pre-school educational institutions located in its territory. As we know, there are now municipal kindergartens, where training is carried out only in the state language, mixed kindergartens and so-called minority kindergartens. In fact, this amendment to the law means that in the future only... There will be no minority kindergartens, there will be no local government... each pre-primary education institution of a municipality must also ensure the flow in the national language. First of all, another step is being taken towards the goal of a complete transition to state language training at all levels of education. Secondly, there is the problem of the availability of kindergarten rows, kindergartens in big cities, such as Riga, Daugavpils, where it is topical. The Commission has also examined the draft law with the participation of representatives of all the parties involved – representatives of the Latvian Municipal Union, representatives of the Ministry, representatives of the Council, representatives of non-governmental organisations – and with quite a large consensus of experts and an absolute majority of the members of the Commission, the draft law has been approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U192	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Kucin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U193	Hello, colleagues! What exactly do we want to achieve with this amendment? The amendment applicants claim that this will reduce the discriminatory situation that exists for years, that in Latvia all Latvian children have no guaranteed opportunity to learn pre-school education in their mother tongue. In my opinion, the proposed amendment will only contrast once again with one part of society and will increase the fragmentation of society. Do you think that imposing new responsibilities on municipalities and restricting minority rights will solve the growing problems in the education system in the country? And that, with the approval of this amendment, the lines for preprimary education will disappear? I don't think so. This is not the solution. I would also like to draw your attention to some other aspects. Such an amendment discriminates against not only families who use Russian on a daily basis, but also Latvian-speaking families, because many Latvian families, especially in Latgale, deliberately send their children to minority kindergartens. The Polish kindergartens can serve as an example, as they are visited by a large number of children from Latvian families. Parents explain their choice very simply: “The more languages the child will manage, the better it will be. In the family we speak Latvian, he will learn Russian in the courtyard and Polish in the kindergarten.” It is also not a secret that families who use Russian every day, thinking about the future of their children, in order to increase their competitiveness, choose pre-school educational institutions, schools, universities where the Latvian language is the language of instruction. This allows minority children to acquire communication skills in different languages. Latvian - for use within the country, Russian - for use in communication with residents of neighbouring countries, foreign language - English, German, French - for use around the world, especially within the European Union. In turn, citizens of our country, who use only Latvian for communication, lose the opportunity to develop their communication skills in Russian and other foreign languages on a daily basis without using additional means. This clearly reduces their competitiveness. Colleagues, another aspect is what the duty of local authorities to ensure... I believe, first of all, that the Ministry of Education and Science should ensure that teachers are available and that municipalities can only require that teachers be attracted. Not just teachers are missing at the moment... with the Latvian language, but there are no educators at all. Where should they be taken? The Ministry should provide teachers (including pre-school educators) with a decent salary from the state budget. Teachers need to be trained, and only then can they ask for something from local governments. Colleagues, I call not to support the draft law on general education, nor the draft law on education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U194	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U195	Hello, colleagues! If we read the annotation of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on General Education”, then we see that the amendment aims to ensure equal opportunities to learn the state language for children of Latvia who attend pre-school institutions. And from this point of view, there is probably no objection to such an initiative. At the same time, however, we must remember and think about practical implementation. I remind you that, unfortunately, the current situation is that municipalities - children between the ages of one and a half and up to five - pay for the implementation of part of the preprimary education programme. Five-year-olds we teach about state budget resources, but up to five years--this is municipal funds. This means that such a delegation could also be made with one of the two options: either the state would do what it had to do long ago and take account of the cost of implementing educational programmes for children from one and a half to five years of age, or, if we remain in the situation, as is currently the case, would allow local authorities to compensate for the cost of the increase that will come. Since these practical issues are not covered by this draft law, I will abstain from today's vote. But I very much hope that if the draft law goes further to the next readings, practical implementation and how to compensate for the extra costs for municipalities will be thought of and the necessary additional articles will be added. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U196	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U197	Good afternoon, colleagues! The draft law under review and the next one are intertwined. Their subject matter is the same, namely, the extension of the possibility of pre-school education in the state language at municipal subordinate educational institutions or kindergartens. I will therefore comment on these draft laws at once. I share Edgars Kucin's concerns, as well as the concern expressed in social networks about the future of minority kindergartens. I believe that the amendment to the law adopted in this version will increase social tension rather than dispel it as the authors of the initiative express their expectations in the draft law. Read them. ‘ The offer of municipalities to Latvian child to study pre-school education in a foreign language in Latvia is not considered to be ensuring equal access to the essence.” End of quote. Yeah, it's not fair. I agree with that. An offer to a child of any ethnic origin to receive pre-school education in a foreign language shall not be considered as ensuring equal treatment in substance. Also for a child belonging to a minority, as confirmed by the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe in its 1996 Hague recommendations on the right of minorities to education. ‘ ... education is an extremely important element in maintaining and developing... identity’. These recommendations conclude: “The first years of education are crucial for the development of the child. The results of the study of the educational process show that at pre-school and kindergarten level, training should take place in the basic language of the child. Countries should, wherever possible, create the conditions for parents to make such choices." End of quote. Meanwhile, I do not see a symmetry here between the guarantees of the possibilities of using Latvian language and the possibilities of using other languages in Latvia. The State of Latvia has been created to guarantee the existence and development of the Latvian language, and, as the Constitutional Court recently defined, persons belonging to the state must have the right to use the state language in any sphere of life. Thus, national self-determination by an ethnic group, if it occurs in a multi-ethnic environment, inevitably creates contradictions. But they can also be solved. For this good, justified experience has shown that a balance of interests can be achieved is concentrated in international instruments. Even before joining the European Union, Latvia has signed the Council of Europe Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities. Article 14 reinforces that, within the framework of their education systems, States undertake to “ensure, if there is sufficient demand, that, as far as possible, persons belonging to national minorities have the right opportunity to acquire the language of a minority or to acquire education in that language in the territory of which, historically or in large numbers, persons living in national minorities”. Latvia ratified this Convention, so it is not contrary to the Constitution. In the wording of Article 14 of the Convention, all preconditions are extremely important, but the keywords are "sufficient demand". So, on the one hand, there are state guarantees for a Latvian to use the state language in any area of life, including education in the state language, and on the other hand, the state's commitment to ensure adequate access to minority language or education in that language if there is a "sufficient demand". It is a rule of balance of interests, which results from Latvia's legislation and international recommendations, which Latvia undertakes to comply with. On the basis of this provision, it is necessary to change the present amendment to the law in the next readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U198	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U199	Colleagues! This is not the first time we look at these issues. We have been looking at the issue of state language training in secondary schools, and we have voted on this. However, we also remember those practical considerations that we had to face in the education system, in the education administration. The educators were faced with very practical questions - those of a nature, those of a type that, of course, requires some kind of investment. At the moment, in the budget, in the budget approved by the State, local authorities have indeed a significant reduction in funding next year. I call for support for the progress of the draft law, but carefully and thoughtfully... directly from the real implementation mechanism... how to activate this idea in real life in such a way that it does not disturb the education system in those places - especially in those places! - where it could be most painfully affected, and it is precisely with the respective municipalities (I mean Daugavpils, Riga, Liepaja) to also discuss the reality of the situation, the situation of educators... what teachers are available at all, and take care of the progress of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U200	The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U201	I have a message for the Union of Greens/Farmers. I understand that, in terms of budget matters, you are used to applaud the SAO, but remember that this is no longer a budget. This is a question of whether we will continue segregation in Latvia from kindergartens or not. ( Internouncing call.) If you ever want to return to normal government, think before this vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U202	I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur have anything to add on behalf of the Commission? ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U203	Thank you, colleagues, for the debate. It was argued that by creating additional costs for the municipality, which could of course arise in practice, compensatory mechanisms should also be envisaged. Here I would like to say that there was also a debate in the Commission on this. In the view of the majority of Members, we cannot talk about the fact that the municipality is now entrusted with new functions. I will remind those present, and as an argument was also made at the meeting of the Commission, Article 9 of the Education Law already states in the first paragraph: “State, municipal and state higher education institutions acquire education in the state language.” ( Some Members are applauding.) Yes, it is true that Article 9 also contains the second paragraph, which provides for exceptions, additions to programmes which can also be implemented in other languages, such as so-called minority education institutions. However, at least in the view of the majority of the commission, this second part does not mean that it is possible to provide training only in a foreign language at an educational establishment. In order not to have such an interpretation, such an amendment is necessary because, for example, in Riga it is still a serious problem that there are enough such pre-school institutions in which to learn Latvian... simply not be able to receive the service. But let's... Of course, given that practical preparations will be necessary for municipalities, we will continue discussions at second reading. The Commission has also expressed various views on the transitional provisions, which require it to enter into force. So, I think, there are no arguments at present to not support this. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U204	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on General Education. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 61, for - 20, for - 1. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U205	10 January
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U206	Deadline for submission of proposals - 10 January. Dear colleagues, Members Ples, Feldman, Wittenberg, Pucens and Rukšāne-Šchipčinska ask for amendments to the agenda and agenda item 31 of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Addresses to be examined before item 25 of the agenda. Do Members have objections? ( Internouncing call.) Do Members have objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) , “No!” ) And objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Please call us! Let us vote on agenda item 31 - Draft law on Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Addresses - to be examined before item 25 of the agenda! ( The box “Why Do You Need It? ”) ) Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 53, against - 23, refrains - not. Decision adopted. Consequently, the first reading of the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Address’ is under consideration. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U207	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Addresses” submitted by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and has conceptually supported it. The draft law has been developed by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and is designed to extend the period of implementation of the e-address to legal entities registered in the Register of Enterprises in order to specify the e-address identifiers for sworn bailiffs, as well as to establish that, in addition to qualified electronic identification means, e-address can be used using other means of identification available in the e-address system, such as bank authentication. Dear colleagues, The Commission requests that the draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U208	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Address” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U209	Thank you. The Commission is asking to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U210	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Addresses”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U211	The deadline for submitting proposals is 5 December this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 12 December this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U212	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 5 December this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 12 December this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Education Act”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Raivis Dzintars. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U213	Colleagues! The argument is the same as with regard to the draft law on the amendment to the General Education Act. Since this draft law is related to it, I call for a vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U214	Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U215	Dear colleagues, It seems that today, in the name of a rather narrow interest, the majority of the Saeima is going to take steps that might be quite costly for our society. The national association, as we know, had prepared zero-reading amendments to the Education Law, which we are now considering at first reading, and these amendments oblige local authorities to ensure that education programmes are taught in the state language in every municipal pre-school institution, including minority kindergartens, if this is required not only by a group of parents but also by one parent. If we read the norms of the law... It's a legal bun! We support the principle that the education system should promote quality learning of the Latvian language at all levels of education, but at the same time we cannot agree that this goal can be achieved by denying training in the mother tongue of persons belonging to minorities... already extending this restriction to kindergarten pups. Moreover, it is absolutely clear! - these amendments to the Education Act do not provide for the retention of minority education programmes at pre-school institutions and do not guarantee children the opportunity to acquire pre-school education in their mother tongue. In our view, this draft law entails an unfulfilled task for several municipalities and creates unnecessary tensions in society. Moreover, as has already been said today, legislative amendments to the draft law require budgetary expenditure, but this problem has not been resolved and has not been properly debated. I would also like to remind the authors of the bill that taxes in Latvia are paid not only by Latvians, but also by representatives of several other nationalities - Latvian citizens and residents, residents. They are all taxpayers. And any change in the field of minority education must not ignore the rights of minorities enshrined in the Constitution to preserve and develop their language, ethnic and cultural specificities. In this way, by moving to a minority children’s training in kindergartens in Latvian, the country ignores its international obligations. Let me repeat, two concrete examples. The General Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, signed and ratified by Latvia, provides that, if there is sufficient demand, persons belonging to minorities should have adequate access to education in minority language in the territory which they possess historically or in large numbers. The recommendations of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe also state that kindergarten training should take place in the child's basic language and that school curricula or much of the subjects should best be taught in minority languages. I therefore call for this provocative bill to be voted against. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U216	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U217	Dear colleagues, I would just like to ask my fellow Member not to deceive Members and to get to know what segregation is. I do not know, perhaps the neo-Nazi parties you consulted taught you that segregation is exactly that, but international conventions say something else. The existence of individual educational establishments for linguistic or religious reasons shall not be regarded as segregation or discrimination, provided that they ensure an appropriate level of education and that participation in such establishments is voluntary. You are a professional lawyer and representative of the Ministry of Justice, but from the parliamentary troupe you speak something completely in the attic. Learn, please, the new man! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U218	The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U219	I had very much hoped that at least on this issue, I wouldn't go on with my 30-year policy of disintegrating society... that the children learn each one in their own language, each one in their own system... and continue the segregation of this company. If you continue in this way, then I have a recommendation for you to stand as a candidate for the Russian State Council and not the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U220	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U221	I have a proposal for the National Association and for the Complainant. And that proposal is very simple. You could solve their internal problems very easily. You, I think, should unite those parties, and then you could sort out internally what you can't do in any way... I think we in Parliament should move towards solving more serious problems, solving the problems of medical wages, improving the quality of education, the well-being of the people... Think of the idea if you are approaching those conventions! Combine and then, as you say, do not bring these problems out of the family! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U222	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U223	Dear President, Colleagues! I would like to ask my colleagues from the National Association: “Do you think that old-believers are the traditional community and minority of Latvia?” I think so. They have lived in Latvia since the 17th century. On this Saturday, I managed to attend the conference organized by Grebensčikovs Old Believers community, where the participants regretted the situation in Latvian education in minority education. They sent a message to President Egil Levit about their indignation regarding government activities in the field of education. I also do not understand, let us say, the views of the draft law on the education of national minorities. When were you in a minority kindergarten? You know that the majority of information is in Latvian? All information on the walls. All events take place in Latvian. Children's training - Billingals. In my opinion, your children are not threatened if they want to visit one of the minority kindergartens. Moreover, it is precisely the smallest children - pre-school age - who are just beginning to develop their thinking and speech. And the interpretation of the bill makes it possible to mention that your opinion is about expelling Russian from Latvian kindergartens, not about training Latvian children. If that is the case, there is a violation of international law before us... what our country has adopted before... United Nations and Council of Europe... as well as violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. That's why point 5 of the draft law... As if it is in line with international law... does not withstand criticism. A section on consultations with public organizations, which indicates only one society – “Mamams and Tētiem.lv”, is also strange. Your idea that “the fact that educational institutions in Latvia with training in Latvian are not enough” (end of quote) is included in the annexation of the bill, but this statement lacks statistical and factual evidence. It also states that the aim is to prevent social tensions. In my view, in the current wording, the draft law contributes exactly the opposite: it reinforces the inter-ethnic gap in our societies. Please reject and vote against.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U224	The name to Member Boris Cilevič for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U225	Dear colleagues, The debate in the Saeima has one clear advantage: everything is recorded, and all verbatim reports are publicly available. I... Well, I... Obviously, we will have to make sure that the position of the Minister of Justice, a high-ranking official, on the interpretation of international law, becomes known to our international allies and also to relevant organisations. Well, colleagues... You can't be so illiterate... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I understand, everyone can have their own confidence, you are a nationalist. Well, then we must be consistent and insist on leaving the Council of Europe, the European Union, the OSCE, because all its organisations still have certain commitments. If we have made certain commitments, then they must be fulfilled. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U226	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U227	Colleagues! I can add that the discussions in the committee were much more peaceful, more framed, both on the side of the Association, and also on the part of the National Union. In the vote, for example, part of the agreement took part. Mrs Papules went out of the room during the vote. The quality of the discussion was high with the participation of experts. And, of course, this is not about the suppression of any language, it is about the integration of society on the basis of the Latvian language, on the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia or on the basis of the Constitution; it is about the availability of kindergartens. Consequently, we would not regard this as an issue of national opposition, but, on the contrary, as an issue of community unity and quality education. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U228	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 61, for - 18, for - 1. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U229	The deadline is 10 January.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U230	The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 January 2020. Dear colleagues, Members Pavļuts, Dzintars, Strīķe, Pucens and Latkovskis are asking to announce a break by 9 a.m. on December 5, this year. Do Members have objections? ( Milestones.) Do Members have objections? ( FROM a faction: “Yes! ” ) There are objections. Please call me! Let us vote for a break before 9 a.m. of December 5th this year at the sitting of the Saeima on 28 November this year! Please vote mode! ( The ring of noise.) Please get the result! - 57, against - 24, abstaining - not. Decision adopted. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “What are your problems?” ; dep. V. Agešins: “No coalition wants to work!” ) Dear colleagues! ( Internouncing call.) Before we go on a break, questions have been put to Members. Members Liepiņa, Stepanenko, Smits, Sprūde and Gobzem presented them (Sitting Manager knocked down with a hammer.) the question by Members on Skultes LNG, which is referred to the Minister of Transport and Communications for a reply. Members Lochmele-Lunova, Švecova, Pimenovs, Zarins and Dombrovskis submitted a question to Members on the regulation of forced land rent. The word for motivation to Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U231	These parliamentary questions are submitted on behalf of all the 300 thousand Latvians who suffer from forced land lease and who finally ask to put an end to the new land baron - the Splitke and the splitkes-like - in an out-of-house business. In April of this year, the Ministry of Justice and personally the Minister of Justice Bordāns convinced the members of the Commission of the State Administration and Municipality that it is not necessary to reduce the ceiling for forced rents, as a new draft law will be submitted to the Saeima in September 2019 and the new regulation will be in force from the new year, which will reduce forced rent payments to 4 per cent of the land cadastral value. This new draft law has not been submitted to the Saeima so far, and we demand that Minister Bordan is responsible for his promises and takes full responsibility for the fact that from the new year no regulation of the ceiling for the lease of land... forced rental does not exist and... It won't be.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U232	Thank you. The question is referred to the Minister of Justice. Members Zarins, Orlovs, Agešins, Kucins and Ribakovs submitted a question to Members on the State budget for 2020 that we should refer to the Minister of Finance for a reply. ( Milestones.) Please register the Members! ( The Room Noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) Time for notifications. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U233	Dear colleagues, Sunday... On the first Sunday of December... a bitter memorial day is marked. 82 years since Stalin started terror against persons of Latvian origin in the Soviet Union. Most of them were Latvians. More than 16 thousand listed and sentenced - more than 22 thousand people were shot. Often this memorial day takes place quietly, almost invisiblely, only in the form of sulphur tapes at the flag. I call, Members, to place flowers at the Freedom Monument on Sunday, December 1, at 11.00, in honour of the memory of the dead. Meeting place - at the Lima clock at 10.50. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U234	Name for the statement to Member Janis Vucanas.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U235	Colleagues! Tomorrow, the Baltic Assembly will be working in this hall. , so I beseech you to remove your belongings from the tables, because these jobs will be at the disposal of other people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U236	Name for Maria Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, to report on the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U237	Not registered: Aldis Adamovičs, Arvils Asheradens, Uldis Augulis, Jānis Adamsons, Jānis Butāns, Anda Čakša, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Jānis Dūklavs, Andrejs Klementjevs, Ieva Krapāne, Edgars Kucins... Yes, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Vladimir Nikonov and Lubova Švecova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-28-PT13-2023-U238	Thank you. Interruption until 9 a.m. on 5 December this year. ( Interruption)
