ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. Let us start by looking at the agenda of the parliamentary session on 14 November 2019. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Waste Management Act” to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking for the draft law "Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act" to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Dzintars, Latkovskis, Urbanovičs, Augulis, Pavļuts, Strike and Pucens are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision on the election of members of the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Ples, Pucens, Petravičs, Adamovičs, Dzintars, Pavļuts, Bluķe and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the change of the commission responsible for the draft law on territorial development planning”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Ples, Pucens, Petravičs, Adamovich, Dzintars, Pavļuts and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On changing the commission responsible for the draft law “Law on Administrative Territories and Accommodations”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the objectives, impact, eligibility criteria, aid intensity, decision of the European Commission of 24 April 2017 in case SA. 43140 (2015/NN) and for damage caused and actions by law enforcement institutions are asked to include in the agenda the draft decision on the ‘On the objectives of the parliamentary investigation commission of the Saeima on the implementation of OIC aid, impact, criteria for receiving aid, intensity of aid, decision of the European Commission of 24 April 2017 in case SA. 43140 (2015/NN) and for damage and actions by law enforcement authorities’. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft decision “On the Parliament’s consent to reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget for 2019”” (No. 263/Lm13). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft decision “On the Parliament’s consent to reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget for 2019”” (No. 264/Lm13). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to the reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget for 2019”” to be included on the agenda of the sitting (No. 264/Lm13)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 51, against - 12, refrains - not. The draft decision shall be placed on the agenda of the sitting. The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft decision “On the Parliament’s consent to reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget for 2019”” (No. 265/Lm13). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft decision “On the Parliament’s consent to reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget for 2019”” (No. 266/Lm13). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft decision “On the Parliament’s consent to reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget for 2019”” (No. 267/Lm13). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft decision “On the Parliament’s consent to reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget for 2019”” (No. 268/Lm13). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. And the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission asks to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the Parliament’s consent to the reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget for 2019”” (No. 269/Lm13). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. Reports by the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Judicial Service Pensions” be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Addresses” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Financing Political Organisations (Parties)” submitted by Member Liepiņa, Stepanenko, Sprūde, Valaiņa and Gobzem be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U2	Dear colleagues, The draft law on the increase in party funding was originally planned to be read in the usual order in three readings next year. This is also reflected in the public response that Mr Bordan had sent to the Members of the Saeima to answer questions about the way this draft law was drafted so urgently. But something, as we know, changed at the government house on 13 September. And on 13 September it was decided that this draft law would have to be in the budget package. And on 17 September, the increase in party funding was already identified as a priority for this budget. We see that it was not possible to prepare and harmonise very significant amendments to this draft law in less than a month. This is reflected in a number of proposals made by members of the coalition, by a number of institutions as well as by public organisations in relation to this draft law. In the course of the examination of this draft law, there was, of course, what Mr Bordan also demonstrated, and what this draft law also states, is that there is no one - no one! - no public consultation was carried out. Contrary to what may once sound in a public space, you cannot refer to any public consultation or to any survey that would indicate that you have asked your employers for an opinion. Instead, on almost the first working day, when you get your job, you put your work tools aside and you're in the safe. You're in the safe, you get out of there as much as you want, sit down, and drink coffee. This is how you look at the public at the moment, and so the public has also started collecting signatures for your dismissal. That's because the priority at the time of drawing up this budget was not to raise medical salaries in accordance with your law, but how you can finance yourself as quickly as possible, because that's why... experienced politicians can know... That is why there are certain draft laws that are to be put into the budget package. And Mr Bondara knows that very well. He has also been a Member of the opposition. If someone wants to go through a very quick fixative idea, then it is put into the budget package and goes through two readings. And that's why Mr. Bondara is probably now a "order cavalier"... Mr Reira for having gone through this project at cosmic speed. Therefore, honourable colleagues, given that several KNAB proposals on the purchase of exclusive goods have also not been taken into account, the implementation of public procurement on public funds... precisely because several opinions from non-governmental organisations have also not been taken into account and, of course, you have not asked the public... For these reasons, I call on you to state that anyone... Any increase in funding that you will figure out for yourself, perhaps during this parliamentary term... Because it's not... We don't have a guarantee... with this voluntar majority, we do not have the guarantee that you will not want to raise even more of this funding - the next budget, the coming... Of course, if you're still here. It is precisely for this reason that, so that you do not act like a devious employee who enters the employer's safe and takes as much as he wishes - it is precisely for this reason that any increase in funding from public funds should not be attributed to this Saeima, which is itself deciding on it. I call on you, colleagues, to support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U3	Mr. Raivis Dzintars, a spokesman, has applied.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U4	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, To avoid any misunderstanding, I would like to say at once that everything I will say is directly linked to this proposal, with these specific amendments to the law. Because this is not just about these amendments. This is about something wider. But first of all, I would like to recommend Members who have not taken it to watch the film Idiocracy. It's not a new film, it's very prophetic. Maybe someone's seen it. The main story of the film, the motive, is the future prophecy that with each future generation society will increasingly degrade, and this is highlighted in particular in terms of public power. Listening to one of the authors of this application, Aldi Gobzema, his speeches here, from the parliamentary tribunal and social networks seem to be fulfilled. And it's bad that it's progressive. If we have lived in this Saeima until Aldis Gobzems is the largest speaker, then perhaps in the next Saeima, it will already be a party boy. (Laughter) However, it is not just about the fact that the Latvian Parliament, the Saeima, is verbally applied. This is not the biggest problem. This is about something bigger. I would like to return for a short time at the stage that followed the parliamentary elections. There have been several attempts to establish a government, and one attempt has also been to try Alda Gobzem; he is one of the signatories, authors of this proposal. And this last attempt was to build a so-called professional government, so a government from ministers who do not represent any party. I will explain what that means. That means ( Dep. Mr Stepanenko: “It’s about a bill or a man?” )... This is about the proposal. That means, in fact, in a coalition... There's no coalition, everyone in the Saeima... ( Internouncing call.) the party represented may become an integral part of the coalition. Since there was no support from the Latvian parties for such a coalition, this coalition was based on the voices of SASKANI. ( Internouncing call.) This potential coalition was based on broad votes. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zariņš: “Who is so bad?” ) And the fact that it was not a coincidence... and it will be on the proposal... The fact that this was not a coincidence is confirmed by Nikolai Cabanov, who calls on social networks to vote in favour of the dismissal of the Saeima. This will be on the proposal. ( Internouncing call.) I will quote Mr. Cabanova precisely: “I think the required number will be collected in one week (Interior call). , with a maximum of one month. But in the new elections, the Head of the Sittings knocked out with a hammer. (See the box below.) WHY together with Gobzem will share 35 votes. Mathematics is simple - the traditional quota will be the majority of KPV LV's elite. Rather, the next term will not be for Development/About! , but the fisheries will rise.’ “There is an opportunity,” says Cabanov, “to create a coalition, “A consensus” plus Gobzem, plus the Union of Greens/Farmers.” ( Milestones.) Dear colleagues, The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “How much do you get from the Debtor?” ) The issue of party financing is only a component of a campaign aimed at changing power. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “On the bill!” ) And the illustration of this change of power was pointed out by Nikolai Cabanov. Of course, this is an unfavorable subject for those who do not want... wanting to retain a greater influence of private money in politics, but it is only an integral part. And the most important motivation is the change of power in Latvia. This was well illustrated by Nikolai Cabanov. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko's intermediate call.) I call for a 'no' vote. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U5	Colleagues! We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties)” to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. On own-initiative proposals submitted. Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Linda Liepiņa, Aldis Gobzems, Karina Sprūde, Viktors Valainis, Armands Krauze, Jānis Dūklavs, Uldis Augulis, Maris Kučinskis, Raimonds Bergmanis and Didzis Šmits have submitted their own proposal – draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to find funding for raising healthcare pay by 13 November 2019. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) So Members object. We must therefore decide to put this own-initiative proposal on the agenda for the next sitting. Mrs Stepanenko, will you talk? ‘for’. So “for” is applied to speak in Jūlija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U6	Dear colleagues, Honorable Latvian Society! I would like to tell you why this draft decision has been made. So on 7 November, the Members called on their colleagues to try to correct the budget error for the last time, which... put to the vote on 13 and 14 November. And this mistake, as we all know very well, was the disregard of medical wages, the nilistic disregard of its statutory duties, and neither the apology of Mrs Murniece, nor the blinding of the eyes of other Members could help. We were very well able to identify it... In the public space all this time until the budget was adopted, until the morning of 7 November Mr Reira reported that he would be looking for money in the budget until the last moment to raise medical salaries. By relying on Mr. Reira's rhetoric and believing that you have come here to really work and comply with the laws, as you promised from the bar, we prepared this parliamentary task for the Cabinet of Ministers... to the last moment, as Mr. Reira said, find this money for medical salaries. Now we see that Mr. Reira had deceived the public, to put it mildly, or in other words, to lie. And you, honourable colleagues from the coalition, are probably covered with these lies. Since you did not allow the voting list to be read on 7 November - you were afraid that the doctors who voted against them would hear - I would now name all those Members who did not support the increase in medical salaries and helped Mr Reira to continue lying. ‘ In response to the increase in medical salaries, the “no” law was voted by Arvils Asteradens, Dagmars Beitnere-Le Galla, Iveta Benhen-Beeken, Dace Bluķe, Aldis Blumbergs, Mārtiņš Bondars, Uldis Budrikis, Jānis Butāns, Jānis Cielēns, Jānis Dombrava, Raivis Dzintars, Ilmars Dzintis, Gatis Eglitis, Krišjānis Feldmanis, Ieva Krapāne, Maria Golubeva, Kaspars Ģiņeidnieks, Jānis Izalnieks, Ilze Indriksone, Ritvars Jansons, Andrejs Judins, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Rihards Kozlovskis, Ieva Krapāne, Janina Kursite-Pakule, Janina Kursite, Ainārs Latkovskis, Inesse-Ee, Inese-Eviņš, Inese-Fiss-Fissss-Fisssssssssssssss-Fille, Bioe-Fisssssssssssssssssssssssss-Fille-Fille-Fillssssss-Fillsss-Fillssssssssssssssssssssssssssss-Sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssse Dear colleagues, Honorable society! Please remember all these words and also those who did not want these words to sound publicly... sound also in radio and video broadcasts. Thank you, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U7	“Pret” has applied to speak to Daniel Paviluts.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U8	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues and colleagues! Good morning! I think we all remember quite well last December 13. This was the day on which we decided, as a matter of urgency, in two readings on one day, to amend the Health Care Financing Act and to incorporate the desired level of medical fees into it for three years ahead. These are very ambitious figures, and I have no doubt that the purpose of all of us... 90 of us all over the hall... here in full spectrum (see all sides)... 90 votes in favour were the best. I would remind you that we took this decision at a time when there was a transitional government - Mr Kučinski's leadership. There was no new government yet. And, from today's point of view, we were all, of course, hasty. Today we are in a different situation. We understand that we made a mistake on 13 December last year. All of us! - made a mistake. ( Milestones.) And at a time when the Speaker of the Saeima or I or someone else apologises for this on 13 December last year, one month after the beginning of the Saeima's work, the surprises that have been allowed, the thinking of wishes, the hope that we will still change taxes, we will increase the revenue of the budget - at that time we are talking on behalf of all the Saeima Members. Colleagues, let us not deceive ourselves! One of the people present can deceiv that... At the time when one of the members of the company initiates the procedure for dismissal of the Saeima in accordance with the procedure laid down by law (Dep. I. Ribena’s intermediate call.) ... both encourage the dismissal of the entire Saeima, the dismissal of all 100 Members. I call on all those present, bearing in mind the mistakes of the past, to take responsibility for what we are doing today. I'm going to find Einstein. : “One of the signs of folly is to continue to do the same as before and to hope for a different result.” Why today, by offering an empty call to the government to find funding on the Saeima's agenda... now that many circles have already been completed with attempts to find a solution within the existing budgetary limits, find a balanced solution within the existing budget revenue... Why is it called again, again, empty promise? ‘ How can you not do that?Oh, no, no, no, no, “ Colleagues, is this the work of the opposition - to promise an empty promise? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzems: “You promised English! You didn’t even teach him to Viņķelis!” ) I am calling today ( Dep. Mr Stepanenko: “Reir also promised an empty promise?” ) to vote against this proposal. I assure you that the coalition, and also our party, will do everything possible to fulfil the promises on a reasonable scale. This is it (interfaces. Medicines cause noise.) ... That is what we can take responsibility for today. I also call on the opposition to share responsibility for the work of this Saeima, not to yell. ( Internouncing call.) Do not shout, but work for society. If shouting is the best that opposition can do for society, then perhaps such opposition should be released. Colleagues! I call for the 'no' vote. (Applause) Depp. A. Gobzem: “On procedure!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U9	So one Member said 'for', one spoke 'for'. Two Members would like to speak about the procedure. Please turn on the microphone for Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U10	Since this draft decision contains a date which has already passed and has not been implemented, we have submitted a new draft decision, on the spot. I therefore withdrawn my signature to this draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U11	Please turn on the microphone for Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U12	Analogue argument. I also withdrew my signature for this draft law because a new analogue has been submitted.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U13	Thank you. So two signatures have been withdrawn. And we cannot decide on this draft decision. Let's go... The draft decision is therefore withdrawn. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of members of the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of members of the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against - 5, it's not. Decision adopted. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. The second reading of the draft law “On disposal of real estate “Ozolsalas” in Ķekava municipality, Ķekava municipality, for public needs – implementation of the main road project “E67/A7 Ķekava bypass””. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U14	Good morning, dear colleagues! At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 5 November, the draft law “On disposal of part of real estate “Ozolsalas” in Ķekava municipality, Ķekava municipality, for public needs – implementation of the main road project “E67/A7 Ķekava bypass” was discussed”. In order to implement the project “E67/A7 Ķekava bypass” it is necessary to dispose of part of the land plot of the real estate “Ozolsalas” in 0,8398 hectares in Ķekava municipality, Ķekava municipality. That part of the real estate is disposed of for the development of transport infrastructure and the disposal is the only way to achieve this objective. No legislative proposals were received. The Legal Commission has supported the second reading. I also call on my colleagues to support them.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U15	Please call me! We will vote for draft law “On disposal of part of real estate “Ozolsalas” in Ķekava municipality, Ķekava municipality – implementation of the main road project “E67/A7 Ķekava bypass” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U16	Deadline for submission of proposals - 26 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U17	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 26 November this year. The draft law “On disposal of real estate “ Vairas” in Ķekava municipality, Ķekava municipality, for public needs – implementation of the main road project “E67/A7 Ķekava bypass””, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U18	At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 5 November, the draft law “On disposal of real estate “ Vairas” in Ķekava municipality, Ķekava municipality, for public needs – implementation of the main road project “E67/A7 Ķekava bypass” was discussed”. For the implementation of the main road project “E67/A7 Ķekava bypass” it is necessary to dispose of the real estate in the “ Vairas” parish in Ķekava municipality, in Ķekava municipality, in 0,0697 hectares of area... is composed of a separate real estate “Surface C”... the unit of land in the area of 0,0469 hectares and the unit of land in the area of the real estate ‘Cria’ in the area of 0,0228 hectares. No favourable agreement has been reached on the disposal of real estate with the owner. Taking into account that according to the land book data, real estate has two recovery marks, but the owner of real estate has telephonely indicated that he will not agree and cooperate with the bailiffs of sworn courts and will conclude an agreement on the voluntary disposal of real estate only in the case if the consideration for the real estate sold in full will be transferred to her... Having regard to the established by the Civil Procedure Law, such procedure is not possible. No legislative proposals were received. I'm calling... The Legal Commission has supported the draft law for third reading. I also call on my colleagues to support them.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U19	Please call me! We will be voting for the draft law “On disposal of real estate “ Vairas” in Ķekava municipality, Ķekava municipality, for public needs – implementation of the main road project “E67/A7 Ķekava bypass” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Food Chain Monitoring”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member Jānis Urbanovičs on behalf of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U20	Good morning! Let us work on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Food Chain Monitoring. Two proposals have been received. 1. - the proposal by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Grasberg, which provides for the introduction into the European Union of an appropriate regulation of the European Union specifying the way in which the introduction into the European Union of both food and packaging is controlled. The Commission examined the proposal and unanimously supported it. We invite you to do the same here at the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U21	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U22	And as a result, the actuality of article 21 is lost. The Ministry of Agriculture calls for the elimination of... it's 2. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. The Commission supported the proposal. We invite you to do the same.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U23	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U24	As a result, everyone has been examined... both proposals. I call for support for the second, final, reading of this bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U25	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on the Monitoring of the Food Chain". Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Genetically Modified Organisms’, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member Jānis Urbanovičs on behalf of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U26	As envisaged, we have only received editorial proposals for final reading. And we supported all three. 1. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Janis Grassbergs. The Commission supports and calls on you to do the same.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U27	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U28	Two more. - Mr Grassberg's proposal. It has been partly supported by improving it by incorporating 3. - the Commission's proposal. We call for support for proposal 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U29	Members agree with the Commission's view on proposal 2. And the proposal 3 is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U30	I therefore call for support for the second, final, reading of this bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U31	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Genetically Modified Organisms” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda – draft law “On accession of the Ministry of Defence of the Slovak Republic to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the National Defence Department of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre of Excellence of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation for Strategic Communications, and the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of National Defence of the Kingdom of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, as well as staff of the Chief of Transformation of the Supreme Command for Strategic Communications of the Republic of the Republic of North Atlantic”. ), second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U32	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, honourable Members, In its second, final, reading session, the Foreign Affairs Commission looked at draft law No. 23/Lp13. Two proposals were received for the second reading. Both proposals come from the Legal Office. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission. This provides for the removal of the first sentence in Article 4. Both of these proposals are interrelated, but this one, which is currently under consideration in particular, is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U33	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U34	And 2, as I have already mentioned, is related to 1, accordingly distributing certain provisions concerning the date of entry into force of the law. This proposal from the Legal Bureau was also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U35	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U36	I therefore call on Members to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U37	Please call me! We will vote on draft law “On accession of the Ministry of Defence of the Slovak Republic to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the National Defence Department of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Italy, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre of Excellence of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation for Strategic Communications and the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the National Defence of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Defence of the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Republic ofGermany , the Ministry of Defence of National Defence of the Republic ofLithuania , the Ministry of Defence of National Defence of the Kingdom of the Republic ofPoland , the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and NorthernIreland , as well as the Chief of Defence of the Supreme Command Transform on the Strategic Relations of the North AtlanticTreaty ” on thesecond , finalreading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on the maintenance of the Latvian-Lithuanian state border and the activities of authorised border representatives”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U38	Good morning, colleagues! In the Foreign Commission we considered the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on the maintenance of the Latvian-Lithuanian state border and the activities of authorised border representatives”, which also provides for the establishment of cooperation between the authorised border representatives of both countries, as well as discuss issues related to the maintenance of the state border. In the Commission, no proposals were received for second reading, and on behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, please support the draft legislation at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U39	Please call me! We will vote on the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on the Maintenance of the Latvian-Lithuanian State Border and the Activities of Plenipotentiary Border Representatives” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U40	Hello, colleagues! See the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection” at third reading. The draft law provides for the transfer of the Latvian administrative liability regulation in the field of consumer protection from the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations to the industry law. The commission responsible for the third reading of the draft law has prepared six proposals to harmonise the terminology of the draft law with the terminology of the Administrative Liability Law. We're looking at the proposals. So it's 1. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U41	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U42	2. - also a proposal from the committee responsible. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U43	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U44	3. - also a proposal from the committee responsible. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U45	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U46	4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U47	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U48	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U49	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U50	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U51	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U52	Please approve the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U53	Please call me! We will vote for the third, final reading of the draft law on consumer protection law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the insolvency law’ (No. 359/Lp13), third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jānis Iesalnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U54	Good morning, colleagues! Commission draft law no. Five proposals were received at third reading at 359/Lp13. All proposals relate to the insolvency proceedings of natural persons. 1. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal to rule out the situation that... where the debtor in the discharge procedure has sufficient income to cover at least 20 per cent of the total liabilities remaining after the end of the bankruptcy procedure. Taking into account that the Ministry of Justice promised to present its offer in the near future, where it would weigh all possible risks on one side or on the other side, this proposal was rejected by the Commission pending the proposal of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U55	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U56	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! This proposal... I'll talk about 1 and 4 right away. - my proposals, which I have drawn up in cooperation with the insolvency of private individuals... organization... association... The commission responsible also defended... this proposal. The substance of these two proposals is as follows: In fact, the current situation is precisely the result of private bankruptcy procedures: when people with low levels of debt start this process, they have longer bankruptcy proceedings than those with high levels of liabilities. This problem has been identified several years ago. For several years now, it has been promised that this nuance will be put right. And everyone... Gaidis Berzins, the Head of the Legal Commission in the previous Saeima, admitted that this was a problem and agreed - already agreed! - solutions of this kind. Of course, it didn't... There's not enough time, let's say what it is. And I was also talked to this Saeima, this problem was raised, and I also submitted to the second reading... received criticism in the second reading. At the moment, for the third reading, I tabled a proposal in line with this criticism. But what do I want to stress? In my opinion, however, the Saeima should work more specifically on people, as private insolvency cases are practically not being updated at the moment. We update all possible... If there are some problems for banks in relation to the insolvency law, if there are some problems for some large companies, all this is dealt with at a very high speed. We see the capacity of the Ministry of Justice on the issue of the financing of political parties: we are able to draft a law within two months. For people, for citizens, for individuals, we do not see such a regulation. And that's a problem, I think! That is why I also deliberately submitted this proposal to the third reading in order to update it, because nowhere, no place... Nothing happens. In spring, together with my group's colleagues... We presented a bill on the accelerated bankruptcy procedure for individuals with low commitments. Here in the troupe, Utah Strique, said that there would be an alternative bill from the government right away. Some of the promises were that it would stink in the summer. The tree leaves have already fallen, but there is still no draft law. And in this case again - again! - be promised (Interface.) ... again it is promised that sometime the Ministry of Justice will bring some solutions. If you are not ready to support this proposal... and for the third reading, I agree with the rapporteur, it is perhaps not the most appropriate way and solution, although I believe that this proposal is sufficiently well prepared to deal with such issues. I would like to emphasise that in this parliamentary term with private bankruptcy proceedings... We have completely neglected them, we are dealing with everything that can only be done in connection with insolvency law, but individuals are simply “lost” somewhere, and we expect only promises that there will now be some kind of draft law. No matter how useless and absurd the new draft law on the release of natural persons from debt... who's talking about these... I call, however, on the Ministry of Justice to get it, to bring it to the Saeima more quickly so that we can correct the bill so that it is in the interests of the citizens. I call for support for this and proposal 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U57	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U58	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Hello, honourable Members! My next proposal - 2. - and this proposal by Viktors Valaiņš is identical, and this is because it really was inspired by the range of proposals presented to us by the Latvian Creditor Association. I think that Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal is therefore certainly welcome. Mr Izalnieks has already said that the Ministry is also going to make its proposals, but I would like to draw your attention to a specific circumstance and situation arising from the implementation of the existing law. This proposal concerns precisely the insolvency proceedings of a natural person. I would like to remind you that the applicant for insolvency proceedings aims to ensure that the time taken to discharge the obligation is as short as possible by deleting the obligation from the debtor by the minimum possible amount. The maturity of the plan for the discharge of an obligation of a natural person shall be determined by the debtor by reference to the amount of the liability to be extinguished and taking into account his expected income, i.e. as much as possible. Accordingly, the debtor chooses to remove 50 per cent, 35 per cent or 20 per cent of the liability depending on whether there will be sufficient income for the redemption. If the income is insufficient, one third of the debtor's income may be transferred to redemption, but not less than one third of the minimum monthly salary. However, the procedure for the qualification of obligations laid down by law allows for the creation of a paradoxical situation. It is true that the redemption of more liabilities creates more favourable conditions for the redemption of liabilities than for the redemption of less liabilities - with a relatively small proportion of the liabilities paid, more liabilities can be extinguished in the shorter term, but with a relatively higher proportion of the liabilities paid can be extinguished in the longer term. This is neither economically sound nor fair. The disproportionate application of the law was highlighted, as I said, by the Association of Latvian Creditors, which also named a number of civil cases, where the deadline for implementation of the plan for discharge is one year and six months from the date of the announcement of the discharge procedure, while twice the amount of the obligation can only be extinguished within one year. Such paradoxical situations become impossible if the conditions for the discharge of the obligation, covering 20 per cent of the obligation, are excluded from the law and the error will be corrected. And there will remain only a norm for the discharge of liabilities with a debtor's income of one third. The purpose of the proposal, tabled by Mr Valaiņš, as well as by me, is to exclude Article 155, third paragraph, point 2 of the law (which has already been notified by the rapporteur) from the application of the existing law in order to avoid disproportionate coverage of the various obligations. I ask you to support the proposal, as next - 2. - the proposal I have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U59	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U60	Good morning! I wanted to reflect on the various rumours that came from Mr. Valaiņa for not doing anything and not working. Yes, the preparation of the bill does not happen as you did in the spring when you went home with a USB flash drive and decided: “This is a good name for the bill, you could collect the signatures of five Members and submit them to the Saeima so that they all vote foolishly.” This is not the case with the drafting of the law! This is not only about this one draft law - about the release of natural persons from debt - which is actively working at the Ministry of Justice and which will provide sustainable financial practice for people who currently have irreparable debts from two to five thousand (as I call it - the law on the granting of quick loans), but here it is necessary to develop... and at the moment there are also six other draft laws in this package that... had forgotten to take the USB flash from the Ministry of Finance at that time. They also need to be developed, because, you see, one thing is the law of the roof - it is already introducing the name of their legal institute, but the law of the Civil Procedure and many others are still to be amended. So now... As early as August... in the first half of August these... Draft law “Law on the Release of Natural Persons from Debt” at the meeting of State Secretaries. The process of harmonisation is under way. I hope... And I've also been interested recently... that this package of draft laws will soon arrive in the Cabinet of Ministers, in a normal way also agreed with the industry, with all ministries, and then also with the Saeima. It's got to draw up billboards, dear lie champions! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U61	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U62	Mr Feldman, your knowledge of the drafting of laws is simply excellent. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldmans: “Thank you!” ) I think sustainable financial practice... you have just confirmed that the main thing is to reconcile with all the industries that... So what laws do not need to be further changed there... Of course! And when we are talking about protecting these people, we need to bring this issue into line with the commercial banks. Now this is so far-coordinated... Like I said... no matter how stupid this bill is, it needs to be handed over to the Saeima as soon as possible, because what you have just praised now is so... just an empty bill that... It will be very difficult to find someone who will meet its requirements at all. The draft law has already been discussed quite extensively, even before it came here in the Saeima... as long as it is still in the so-called Ministry of Harmonisation. And you could answer and tell us how much this good management practice was followed at the moment you moved the legislative package accompanying the budget into a set of draft laws that were not agreed with any. It was simply taken through the government sitting, through the Saeima, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. We, 36 Members, have now sent a letter to the President of State asking us to return all these draft laws that we debated for one and a half days, the Saeima, to draw up them in accordance with what you have just mentioned. They have nothing to do with the 2020 budget, they were simply submitted to the Saeima, in violation of any principles of good governance. This draft law that you mentioned is simply stupid in its essence. No human will be able to use such a law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U63	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U64	Dear colleagues, I also really have something to say about the legislative process and the way in which this legislative process is implemented by the ruling coalition, especially in the context of the JIP. And what Mr Feldman said about driving is, in principle, their own. Because exactly as Mr. Valaini said... To put forward draft laws in less than a month to allocate funds to themselves, while at the same time removing funds for vulnerable groups... In this sport you are the greatest champions. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Col’s intermediate call.) So look solely at yourself and not at the way in which opposition Members make their proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U65	I closed the debate. Would there finally be something to add on behalf of the Commission to the proposal in question? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: “Raivis Dzintars did not talk about the proposal!” ; dep. R. Dzintars: “I am!” ; dep. L. Liepiņa’s intermediate call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U66	In the Commission, the proposal was rejected, but asked the Ministry of Justice to come up with its own balanced solution on this issue.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U67	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Viktoras Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 30, 52, abstaining. - No. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U68	2. There is a motion from Member Igor Pimenov, which is identical and obviously unvoting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U69	The proposal is not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U70	3. is the proposal of Member Igora Pimenova, which essentially shortens the deadlines for the discharge plan in a situation where a minimum amount of one third of the debtor's income is diverted to cover the creditor's claims. The law currently sets out four situations depending on the amount of debt after the bankruptcy procedure has ended, and this proposal shortens all these deadlines, which are already one of the shortest in the European Union Member States in Latvia. In this situation, too, the Ministry of Justice has been asked to submit its offer for this graduation, given that there are concerns: if these deadlines are too short, the banks that issue loans will price them in risk, and later on, to all borrowers, anyone who comes to the bank after the credit, these risks will be priced and the credit rates may increase. So this is 3. - the proposal was rejected by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U71	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U72	Dear colleagues, The risk balance between lenders and borrowers must be very specific and fair. Although, as Mr. Iesalnieks said, indeed in our country insolvency proceedings are organised in a favourable and more favourable way than in some other Member States of the European Union, and even citizens of their Member States are travelling to Latvia to arrange their own affairs, insolvency proceedings are being opened here, yet the situation in Latvia is not as simple and rosary as we may think. I would therefore like to clarify and justify my proposal. According to the Statistical Office, there are 980 thousand economically active people aged 15 to 74 in Latvia. According to the “Credit Information Bureau”, approximately 550 thousand Latvian private individuals currently have fixed credit obligations in the data exchange system. So almost half of the population has a credit obligation. Of these, 290 thousand are late contracts or invoices. The debt of a natural person is not a personal matter; it is a national problem, ladies and gentlemen. As debt reduces demand on the market, both the employer and the worker contribute to their development. And the solution is to reduce the maturity of debtors' liabilities. As I have already said, under the existing framework, where the debtor is unable to cover half of the liabilities, neither 35 per cent of the liabilities nor 20 per cent, funds are transferred to cover the creditors’ claims to one third of the debtor’s income. But not less than one third of one minimum monthly salary. And then the maturity of the discharge plan shall be one year, two years or three years depending on the amount of the debtor's liability. The greater the commitment, the longer the duration of the plan. And these amounts of commitments are laid down in law as follows - up to 30 thousand euros, from 30 thousand euros to 150 thousand euros and over 150 thousand euros. A solid number of natural persons with a credit obligation are beneficiaries of quick loans. That's 20 percent of all debtors. The average amount of such credit obligations is around EUR 10 000. By allowing the liabilities to be extinguished as quickly as possible, the State would encourage a significant number of economically active investors on the market. This is a national measure that can be secured by insolvency proceedings. The objective of the proposal is therefore to ensure that the maturity of the redemption plan for relatively small borrowers is kept as low as possible while maintaining the statutory requirement for high debt redemption. In particular, provide that the maturity of the discharge plan shall be six months if the debtor’s obligations after the bankruptcy procedure have been completed do not exceed EUR 15 000 and the duration of the cancellation plan shall be one year, two years and three years if the commitments are between EUR 15 001 and EUR 50 000, between EUR 50 001 and EUR 200 000 and exceed EUR 200 000 respectively. The proposal will have an additional impact on quick lenders, on the policy of issuing loans, by increasing long-term liability, and, as we well understand, it is very important to reduce the number of personal bankruptcies. And with faster insolvency proceedings, it's easier to be safe... It is easier for the debtor to tolerate and implement, it is no longer hopeless and is planned. Thus, the debtor will not seek the best solutions abroad, but will remain in Latvia. Please support this proposal, which reduces the maturity of the redemption plan to half a year for the debtor's liabilities up to a maximum of EUR 15 000 following the completion of the bankruptcy procedure. This will further improve the conditions for the implementation of insolvency proceedings and make it even better... In my opinion, Latvia's legislative reputation will increase among those debtors who now have really problems both inside and outside Latvia. I think that this proposal really provides new opportunities for our debtors, Latvian debtors, Latvian debtors, to delete their obligations and to come out in the market, to borrow again and, as a result, to stimulate demand in the market and solve their problems. Please support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U73	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U74	Well, like Mr Pimenova, I supported my proposal - 1 - I - Pimenova's proposal. They are, in a way, the same for us. This proposal is also, by its very nature, coordinated with non-governmental organisations, at least one, and it is the Association of Latvian Creditors. Of course, this is not consistent with the banking sector. And so it's always when we're looking at this, always banks and... The Association of Latvian Commercial Banks - the Latvian Financial Industry Association, as it is now called - has always objected, has always indicated that loans will now remain more expensive. It has always been a difficult conversation and, in a way, also a fight with these here... with that organisation. As the rapporteur said from the tribunal... I also took note of this letter, which is an annex to the bill - a letter from the Latvian Financial Industry Association. Well, naturally, they'll say that! What, then, will they say another when there is a question that could affect their profits?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Of course, it will have some effect on their profits. But we all have to ask ourselves how it will affect the people of Latvia? And I have to understand this problem much deeper: if there are a whole series of people who have fallen into quick loans and have made commitments that cannot be fulfilled, it would be in our interest to bring these people back to the normal economy as soon as possible. And these proposals are precisely about this. I very much hope that the Ministry of Justice will come to the Saeima with its vision as soon as possible. If that does not happen (I foresee that it will not happen so quickly), I will now also present these proposals in the insolvency law as soon as it is open, in order to remind you of the need to defend people too, not just the banking and financial sector, Mrs Strike.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U75	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what can be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U76	Yeah. As before, this proposal was rejected. But asked the Ministry of Justice to come with its offer, given that there are interests to be balanced here. And it is not that simple when we talk about redistribution of bank profits in favour of citizens. Because, as we know, it is very easy for banks to transfer these risks to borrowers... others... I just... who's not here... This proposal was rejected by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U77	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Member Igora Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 32, it's against - 52, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U78	4. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal, which is similar to the previous proposal, but with other amounts... and slightly shorten the maturity and thresholds of the commitments are set differently... The Commission was not supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U79	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Member Viktoras Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 31, 52, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U80	5. - Igora Pimenova's proposal for transitional provisions, but this concerns proposals that have been rejected in the past. That would obviously not be the case.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U81	The proposal is not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U82	Consequently, all the proposals submitted for the third reading have been examined. Please support the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U83	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the insolvency law (No. 395/Lp13) third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juta Strike.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U84	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission examined six proposals in the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” before the third reading. Before addressing the proposals, I would remind you that the draft law was submitted by the Legal Commission in order to facilitate the investigation of proceedings on money laundering by strengthening the obligation of the suspect or accused person to prove the legality of the origin of the property in question. I would also like to point out that these proposals were also discussed very extensively at the Sub-Commission on Criminal Law Policy at the sitting of the Legal Commission before its examination. Furthermore, I would like to point out in particular that this draft law does not in any way involve limiting the presumption of innocence. As was highlighted in the discussions in the committee meetings, the burden of proof remains solely on the indictment driver. And now I will focus on the proposals. 1. - The Member's Armand Krauze's proposal. In essence, it is planned to withdraw from the planned changes specifying the norms regarding the burden of proof of the process leader regarding the origin of the proceeds of crime. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U85	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U86	Proposal No 2 - Member Krauze, too. This proposal also provides for the waiver of planned changes to the burden of proof on the legality of the origin of the property. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Vote!” ; dep. Mr Stepanenko: “Vote!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U87	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Krauze's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 33, against - 52, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U88	3. - The legal commission's proposal. The proposal clarifies the wording of the original draft law as regards the concept of the property under legalisation and the range of persons to whom this provision applies. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U89	Members (Dep. A. Gobzem: “Vote!” )... Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - The legal commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 57, for - 6, for - 18. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U90	4. - the proposal by the Minister of Justice Mr. Janis Bordāns to exclude the word “reliable” from the draft law. Following extensive discussions, following the views of experts both within the sub-committee and within the Commission, this proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U91	Members (Dep. Mr Stepanenko: “Vote!” ; dep. A. Gobzem: “Vote!” )... wishes to vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U92	5. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It also follows on from proposal 6, which is a proposal from the Legal Commission. Both proposals specify the period during which information on the legality of the origin of the property may be submitted. 5. The proposal was partly supported at the Commission meeting and included in proposal 6.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U93	Members agree. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: 'Vote!' ) I wish to vote, however. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U94	6. - The legal commission's proposal. The Commission meeting was supported. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: “Vote!” ; dep. A. Gobzem: “Vote!” ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of 6. - The legal commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported. Please support the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U95	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -63, against -24, refrains - not. The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on the Legal Movement of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and Medicinal Products and Precursors’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Edmunds Teirumnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U96	Hello, colleagues! The Social and Labour Commission is working on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Legal Movement of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and Medicinal Products and Precursors”. The third reading received one proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Jānis Grasbergs. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U97	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U98	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, I call for this proposal to be supported, but at the same time I draw your attention to the fact that the Social and Labour Commission has not yet received at least three... in the context of codification... at least three draft laws that we will have to adopt by the end of the year. We only have one month, but we still need to look at at at least three draft laws. We've been freezing our pay for a long time. And I think we also need to think about those ministerial staff who also... Does not carry out its work. And we will need to adopt other draft laws as a matter of urgency. I call for support for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U99	I closed the debate. I understand that the speaker is in favour of the opinion of the committee. Members support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U100	On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, please support this draft law at third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U101	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third final reading of the bill on the Law on the Legal Movement of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and Medicinal Products as well as Precursors! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U102	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law”. This is linked to the decoding of LAC. Most of them are editorial proposals. A total of 11 proposals have been received. Proposal No 1 - Legal Bureau proposal Incorporated in proposal 3, which is the proposal of the committee responsible. Proposal No 2...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U103	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U104	2. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. This is also included in 3. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U105	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U106	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U107	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U108	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U109	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U110	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U111	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U112	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U113	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U114	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U115	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U116	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U117	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U118	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported and included in proposal 10.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U119	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U120	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U121	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U122	And 11. - a proposal from the committee responsible. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U123	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U124	I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U125	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to law on compulsory social insurance for accidents at work and occupational diseases”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Jānis Krišāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U126	Dear President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compulsory Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases”. There is one technical proposal from the Commission as two points repeat the date of entry into force of the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U127	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U128	Thank you. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U129	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compulsory Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U130	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U131	Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Arvils Asheraden.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U132	Hello, dear colleagues! The Commission has received a draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments’ and has started to see it before the first reading. At the beginning of the review of the draft law, the Commission found that the government, which led it, did not provide for the necessary funding for the regulations on the registration of cultural monuments in the state information system contained in the draft law and asked the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Culture to agree on this issue again. As a result of this viewing and discussions, we received a letter from the Minister of Justice in which he asked the Commission not to proceed with the draft law “Amendments to the law on the protection of cultural monuments”. The Commission, having taken note of the Minister’s views, supported this and decided at its meeting on 5 November not to proceed with the draft law and asked the Saeima to support the decision of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U133	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been rejected. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Administration Structure”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission – Member Dace Bluķe.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U134	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government examined and supported the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Structure of the State Administration” prior to the first reading (No. 416/Lp13). The changes to the law relate to a data regulation aimed at cutting red tape by providing public administration services to citizens. The amendments contain two proposals. The proposal provides for the exclusion of the second sentence of the second paragraph of Article 98. This means that in future, when providing public administration services to citizens, the institution will have the right to process physical data to the extent necessary, without special contracts for the processing of personal data. Proposal No 2 provides for the exclusion of point 24 of the transitional provisions, which requires such an amendment to be drawn up by 31 January 2016. This is done now - three years later - and therefore the paragraph has lost its relevance. I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U135	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Administration Equipment”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals. Mrs Blue, please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U136	That's... The time limit for proposals shall be five days.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U137	So November 26th of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U138	Yes, by 26 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U139	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 26 November this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Aivars Geidan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U140	Madam President, Dear colleagues, At the Saeima Legal Commission we examined and prepared for the first reading the draft law “Amendments to the law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia”” (No. 389 Lp13). The draft law was drafted by the Ministry of Justice on the basis of the Moneyval mutual evaluation report on Latvia, where it is indicated that it is necessary to receive information from the State Revenue Service in good time before the registration of the company, or a particular person is not already located in the tax risk area; whether this person is related to the formation of VAT schemes or money laundering and whether the real purpose of the person is to set up fictitious companies. The draft law provides for the development of cooperation mechanisms between the State Revenue Service and the Register of Enterprises. The Register of Enterprises, upon receipt of a reasoned opinion of the State Revenue Service, will have the possibility to prevent the registration of relevant information in the Register of Enterprises. The Commission decided to support these amendments. On behalf of the Commission, I call on Members to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U141	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U142	The deadline for submitting proposals is 16 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U143	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 16 December this year. Draft law on amendments to the Convention on the Verification and Stamping of Articles of precious metal Products, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U144	Dear Members, honourable Members, At its meeting, the Foreign Affairs Commission examined and supported for its first reading the draft law on the amendment of the Convention on the Verification and Stamping of Articles of precious metal Products. The aim of the draft law is to improve the drafting of the Convention on testing and sealing of precious metal products in line with modern trends. The aim of the Convention is to facilitate the conditions for international trade in precious metal products between States Parties by ensuring that consumer protection is respected and by providing for mutual recognition of the stamps of the States Parties' probation inspection bodies. I would like to remind you that the supervision of the state prowess in the Republic of Latvia is carried out by the limited liability company “Latvijas provess birojs”, the laboratory of which has been accredited according to the requirements of the accreditation standards. The stamping of precious metal products by means of prowess is recognised as an effective means of protecting consumer interests. The recognition of the stamps between the various countries is based on the principles laid down in international agreements and conventions. And now about the specific changes to the Convention. Annex I to the Convention, entitled ‘Definitions and technical requirements’, develops the contents of the definitions in editorial form, as well as includes additional clarification of the terms. The technical requirements section is also improved by setting standards for proves and other editorial corrections. Annex II to the Convention, ‘Controls by authorized inspection bodies for grass’, is amended by clarifying in detail the principles of conduct of the inspection body for grasses by examination of precious metals. Provision has also been made for operations to be carried out in respect of checks on precious metal products submitted for sealing by means of the single control stamp. A editorial change has been made to the sections on test and analytical methods as well as on sealing. As I have already mentioned, this bill was endorsed by the Foreign Affairs Commission at first reading. I also call for this to be done at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U145	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Convention on the Verification and Stamping of Precious Metal Products! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U146	The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U147	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 December this year. Time to break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Time for notifications. Dear colleagues, Evija Papule, a Member of the European Union, celebrated a very beautiful anniversary, and we greet her! (Applause) Name for the statement to Member Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U148	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, In five minutes, we are opening a meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U149	Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U150	Not registered: Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla, Aivars Geidan (Interim: Yes!) )... Yes, Inese Iksten, Andrejs Clementyev (Interface: ‘ Yes!’ )... Yes, Ieva Krapāne (Interface: ‘ Yes!’ )... Yes, Armands Krauze, Romans Naudiņš, Ramona Petravičs and Dace Rukšāne–Ščipčinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U151	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U152	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the insolvency law’ (No. 368/Lp13), second reading. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer. Depp. A. Gobzem: “It’s state property!” ) On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Iesalnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U153	Eight proposals were received to the second reading of the draft law by the Commission. It should be recalled that this draft law is related to the decoding of administrative offences, therefore the Legal Commission did not support those proposals which do not concern the decoding process. Proposal 1 is a proposal from Member Igor Pimenov, which is identical to a proposal that we had already rejected almost an hour ago in another draft law on Amendments to the insolvency law (No. 395/Lp13). This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U154	Members... ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Do I wish to vote? Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 29, 50, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U155	Two more. - Igora Pimenova's proposal - previously rejected... in the previous bill, identical to what it was there. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Pimenov: “Please vote!” ) was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U156	So Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 30, 52, abstaining. - No. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U157	3. there is a technical proposal from the Legal Office concerning the more precise wording of the title of the section. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U158	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U159	4. is the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns, which is related to the next - proposal 5, which removes from the competence of the State Police administrative cases for failure to submit an application for insolvency proceedings, leaving the liability for such administrative offences solely in relation to unpaid taxes. And according to this competence so far... and continue to be the State Revenue Service. However, with regard to other debts, for which the most common are various civil disputes, which were so far obliged to be dealt with by the police (in fact, the police were not used to settle civil disputes), the Commission supported the solution that the police no longer had competence... such matters, and such matters are no longer regulated administratively. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U160	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U161	5. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns, excludes the State Police from the list of competent authorities in these administrative infringement proceedings. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U162	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U163	6. - a technical proposal from the Legal Office stating that these amendments... The draft law shall enter into force at the same time as the Law on Administrative Liability. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U164	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U165	7. - Igora Pimenova's proposal, which was also rejected in the previous draft law, is identical. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U166	This relates to previous proposals that have not been supported and cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U167	Not put to the vote. 8 / 8 - Legal Bureau proposal: "No indication of entry into force of the law." Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U168	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U169	Please vote on the second reading of the draft law on Amendments to the insolvency law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U170	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the insolvency law (No. 368/Lp13) at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 82, against - 3, refrains - not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U171	Five days, i.e. November 26, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U172	The deadline for submitting proposals is 26 November this year. Draft law on private pension funds, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Rihards Kozlovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U173	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined and prepared for second reading the draft law “Law on Private Pension Funds”. More than 300 proposals have been received, together today's parliamentary session - 301 proposals. I will remind you a little about this draft law. It is designed to take over the requirements of the Directive. In view of the fact that, when these requirements were taken over, more than half of the current texts of the law had to be amended, a new draft was prepared rather than amendments. The aim of this draft law is to ensure minimum harmonisation within the European Union in order to protect members of occupational pension schemes, to provide beneficiaries with general and clear information on the implementation of these plans, predictability and security of occupational capital accumulation. So most of the proposals are editorial. Please arm yourself with patience! 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U174	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U175	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U176	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U177	3. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U178	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U179	4. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U180	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U181	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U182	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U183	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U184	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U185	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U186	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U187	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U188	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U189	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U190	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U191	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U192	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U193	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U194	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U195	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U196	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U197	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U198	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U199	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U200	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U201	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U202	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U203	16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U204	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U205	17. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U206	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U207	18. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported, included in proposal 19.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U208	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U209	19. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported by changing the numbering of the following points accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U210	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U211	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U212	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U213	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U214	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U215	22. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U216	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U217	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U218	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U219	24. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U220	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U221	25. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U222	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U223	26. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported by changing the numbering of subsequent parts accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U224	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U225	27. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U226	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U227	28. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U228	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U229	29. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U230	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U231	30. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U232	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U233	31. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U234	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U235	32. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U236	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U237	33. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U238	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U239	34. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U240	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U241	35. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U242	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U243	36. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U244	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U245	37. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U246	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U247	38. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U248	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U249	39. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U250	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U251	40. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U252	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U253	41. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U254	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U255	42. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U256	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U257	43. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U258	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U259	44. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U260	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U261	45. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U262	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U263	46. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U264	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U265	47. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U266	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U267	48. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U268	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U269	49. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U270	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U271	50. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U272	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U273	51. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U274	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U275	32, I'm sorry, 52. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U276	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U277	53. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U278	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U279	54. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U280	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U281	55. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U282	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U283	56. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U284	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U285	57. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U286	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U287	58. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U288	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U289	59. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U290	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 59. - the proposal tabled by Finance Minister Reira, who has been supported by the Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U291	60. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U292	Members are in favour. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U293	61. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U294	Members are in favour. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! We will vote on the 61st proposal tabled by the Legal Bureau. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U295	62. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U296	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U297	63. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U298	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U299	64. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U300	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U301	65. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U302	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U303	66. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U304	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U305	67. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U306	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U307	68. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U308	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U309	69. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by changing the numbering of the following points accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U310	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U311	70. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U312	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U313	71. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U314	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U315	72. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U316	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U317	73. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U318	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U319	74. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U320	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U321	75. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U322	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U323	76. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U324	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U325	77. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U326	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U327	78. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U328	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U329	79. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U330	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U331	80. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U332	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U333	81. - Finance Minister Reira. Partly supported, included in proposal 82.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U334	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U335	82. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U336	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U337	83. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U338	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U339	84. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U340	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U341	85. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U342	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U343	86. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U344	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U345	87. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U346	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U347	88. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Partly supported, included in proposal 89.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U348	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U349	89. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U350	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U351	90. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U352	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U353	91. - Legal... Proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U354	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U355	92. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U356	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U357	93. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U358	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U359	94. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U360	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U361	95. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 96. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U362	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U363	96. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U364	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U365	97. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U366	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U367	98. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U368	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U369	99. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U370	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U371	100. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U372	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U373	101. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by proposal 103.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U374	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U375	102. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported and included in proposal 103.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U376	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U377	103. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U378	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U379	104. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U380	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U381	105. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U382	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U383	106. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U384	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U385	107. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Partly supported, included 108. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U386	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U387	108. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U388	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U389	109. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported by changing the numbering of subsequent parts accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U390	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U391	110. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Partially supported, included 111. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U392	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U393	111. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U394	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U395	112. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by 108 and 111. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U396	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U397	113. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U398	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U399	114. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U400	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U401	115. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U402	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U403	116. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U404	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U405	117. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U406	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U407	118. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U408	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U409	119. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U410	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U411	120. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U412	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U413	121. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U414	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U415	122. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U416	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U417	123. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U418	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U419	124. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U420	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U421	125. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U422	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U423	126. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U424	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U425	127. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U426	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U427	128. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U428	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U429	129. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U430	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U431	130. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U432	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U433	131. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U434	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U435	132. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U436	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U437	133. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U438	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U439	134. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U440	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U441	135. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U442	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U443	136 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U444	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U445	137. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U446	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U447	138. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U448	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U449	139. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U450	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U451	140. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U452	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U453	141. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U454	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U455	142. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U456	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U457	143. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U458	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U459	144. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U460	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U461	145. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U462	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U463	146. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported by the proposal 147.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U464	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U465	147. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U466	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U467	148. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U468	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U469	149. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U470	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U471	150. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by 153. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U472	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U473	151. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by 153. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U474	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U475	152. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Partly supported, included 153. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U476	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U477	153. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U478	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U479	154. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U480	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U481	155. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U482	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U483	156. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Partially supported, included 157. - the Commission's proposal. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U484	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U485	157. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U486	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U487	158. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U488	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U489	159. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U490	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U491	160. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U492	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U493	161. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U494	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U495	162. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U496	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U497	163. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U498	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U499	164. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U500	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U501	165. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U502	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U503	166. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Partially supported, included 167. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U504	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U505	167. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U506	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U507	168. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Partially supported, included 169. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U508	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U509	169. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U510	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U511	170. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U512	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U513	171. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U514	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U515	172. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U516	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U517	173. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U518	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U519	174. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U520	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U521	175. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U522	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U523	176. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U524	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U525	177. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U526	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U527	178. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U528	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U529	179. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U530	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U531	180. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U532	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U533	181. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U534	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U535	182. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U536	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U537	183. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U538	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U539	184. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U540	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U541	185. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U542	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U543	186. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U544	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U545	187. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U546	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U547	188. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U548	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U549	189. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U550	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U551	190. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U552	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U553	191. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U554	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U555	192. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U556	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U557	193. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U558	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U559	194. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U560	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U561	195. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U562	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U563	196. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U564	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U565	197. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Partially supported, included in 198. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U566	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U567	198. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U568	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U569	199. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U570	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U571	200. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U572	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U573	201 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U574	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U575	202. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U576	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U577	203. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U578	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U579	204. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U580	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U581	205. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U582	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U583	206. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported by changing the numbering of subsequent parts accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U584	Members agree. Dear colleagues, ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Dear colleagues, if you have something to be discussed very urgently during the sitting, please leave the Chamber and do not interfere with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U585	207. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U586	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U587	208. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U588	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U589	209. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U590	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U591	210. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U592	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U593	211. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U594	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U595	212. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Partially supported, included 213. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U596	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U597	213. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U598	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U599	214. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U600	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U601	215. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported by changing the numbering of subsequent parts accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U602	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U603	216. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U604	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U605	217. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U606	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U607	218. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U608	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U609	219. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U610	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U611	220. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U612	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U613	221. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U614	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U615	222. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U616	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U617	223. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U618	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U619	224. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U620	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U621	225. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U622	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U623	226. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U624	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U625	227. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U626	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U627	228. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U628	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U629	229. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Partly supported, included 230. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U630	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U631	230. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U632	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U633	231. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by 230. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U634	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U635	232. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Partially supported, included 233. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U636	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U637	233. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U638	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U639	234. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U640	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U641	235. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported. Editative clarifications.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U642	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U643	236. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U644	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U645	237. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U646	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U647	238. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U648	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U649	239. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U650	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U651	240. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U652	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U653	241. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U654	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U655	242............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U656	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U657	243. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U658	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U659	244. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U660	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U661	245. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U662	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U663	246. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U664	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U665	247. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U666	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U667	248. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U668	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U669	249. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U670	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U671	250. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U672	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U673	251. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U674	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U675	252............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U676	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U677	253. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U678	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U679	254. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U680	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U681	255. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U682	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U683	256. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U684	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U685	257. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U686	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U687	258. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U688	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U689	259. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U690	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U691	260. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U692	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U693	261. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U694	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U695	262. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U696	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U697	263. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U698	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U699	264. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U700	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U701	265. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U702	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U703	266. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U704	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U705	267. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported. Editative clarifications.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U706	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U707	268. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U708	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U709	269. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U710	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U711	270. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U712	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U713	271. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U714	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U715	272. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U716	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U717	273. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U718	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U719	274. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Partially supported, included 275. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U720	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U721	275. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U722	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U723	276. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U724	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U725	277. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U726	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U727	278. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U728	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U729	279. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U730	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U731	280. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U732	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U733	281. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U734	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U735	282. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U736	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U737	283. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U738	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U739	284. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U740	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U741	285. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U742	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U743	286. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by 287. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U744	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U745	287. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U746	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U747	288. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported by changing the numbering of subsequent parts accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U748	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U749	289. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U750	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U751	290. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U752	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U753	291. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U754	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U755	292. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U756	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U757	293. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U758	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U759	294. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U760	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U761	295. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U762	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U763	296. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U764	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U765	297. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U766	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U767	298. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U768	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U769	299. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U770	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U771	300. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U772	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U773	301. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U774	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U775	Consequently, it has been examined (Applause). ... We have therefore examined all the proposals, colleagues, and I am asked to support the draft law on private pension funds at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U776	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law on private pension funds! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U777	November 26th of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U778	The deadline for submitting proposals is 26 November this year. Thank you to the rapporteur for the report. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U779	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! In the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, we worked on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education” (No. 319/Lp13) before second reading. Three proposals were received by the Commission. Three proposals were considered. 1. - The proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U780	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U781	2. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It is also a editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U782	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U783	3. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It consists of three parts. The first two are editorial clarifications, while the third part clarifies... Thus, the transitional provision has been strengthened so that schools that have so far received additional funding for basic education programmes and that undertake in-depth learning in a certain area continue to receive it over a three-year period. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U784	Members would like to vote on proposal 3. ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of 3. - The proposal submitted by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 55, for - 4, for - 28. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U785	So all the proposals have been examined and supported, so I call for support to be given to the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U786	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on General Education"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 85, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U787	Member States shall communicate to the Commission the text of the main
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U788	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is November 29, this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Waste Management Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U789	Good afternoon, colleagues! Consequently, the draft law on the first reading on "Amendments to the Law on Waste Management" has been received. On behalf of the Commission, I ask for urgency to be given to this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U790	The Commission is therefore asking for the draft law to be declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on waste management! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U791	The first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Waste Management" has started to be examined. The draft law provides for the transfer of administrative liability regulation in the field of consumer protection from the Latvian Administrative Violations Code to the sectoral law. Please approve the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U792	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Waste Management"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U793	Second reading... So the deadline for submission is November 28.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U794	And consideration of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U795	5 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U796	So consideration at the Saeima sitting - 5 December this year. Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 28 November this year, consideration at the sitting of the Saeima - 5 December this year. Draft Act “Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U797	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Colleagues! In the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, we have examined the draft law “Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act”. Its aim is to fulfil the obligations towards the European Union by introducing the relevant European Union legislation, as well as to clarify the application of value added tax in certain transactions, including... that the regulation is consistent with the interpretation of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Similarly, the draft law clarifies certain provisions concerning VAT exemptions. I call for support for the bill. The Commission is asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U798	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, 3, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U799	I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U800	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U801	The deadline for submitting proposals is 25 November this year. And the examination at the meeting on November 28th.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U802	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 25 November this year. Review at the Saeima sitting on 28 November this year. Examination of draft decisions Draft decision “On change of the commission responsible for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Territorial Development Planning”. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U803	Colleagues! I believe, however, that the particular draft law should be retained in the previous responsible commission - the Commission of State Administration and Local Government - and discussed as quickly as possible, because what is on the Saeima's agenda has already had some impact. There are a number of municipalities that have ceased to develop their own development programmes. And the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development has unfortunately looked very narrowly at this issue. Development programmes today... I think we should do our utmost to use development programmes, not just European funds... the budget for programming needs. Investment in specific areas as well as the establishment of their annual budgets are needed to substantiate why it is necessary. These documents shall not be drawn up within a month or two months and shall take the form of a period of years. This draft law can in principle lead to the development of development programmes starting only from 2021. We know that the period for the implementation of European Union funds starts in 2021. And no regional investment fund will invest anywhere without these development programmes. That is, if in 2021 we only started to develop development programmes, then we can only start talking about some kind of implementation from 2023 to 2024. It will create a very high degree of fragmentation of funding, the same as it is at present, at the end of the period of implementation of the Fund. In my opinion, this draft law is not far-reaching. I have talked to representatives of several municipalities who are really waiting for and cannot understand how to proceed... including those who have practically completed the drafting of these documents. In my opinion, the draft law is essentially more about today's municipalities, how to work today than about the future... which is also incorporated here. However, I call on this draft law to be examined as quickly as possible and to take a decision by the Saeima on it, having heard all the responsible institutions, to adopt this draft law as quickly as possible in the committee responsible, because, again, I stress, it does not affect the work of future municipalities - it also applies to future municipalities - but has a very significant impact on the work of existing municipalities today.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U804	The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U805	Thank you to Mr Valaiņš for his opinion. As in the previous sitting, when we betrayed... When we took over this draft law at the Saeima, I mentioned it, no one forbids local governments to plan development documents, and so it is planned for the future. This draft law is directly related to the administrative implementation of territorial reform. Yes, we have also consulted municipalities, including various organisations, and we can see that there are concerns, and that is what we... all of this will be dealt with by us in this commission with the particular draft law. I call for support, colleagues!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U806	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the change of the commission responsible for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Territorial Development Planning”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision “On the change of the commission responsible for draft law “Law on Administrative Territories and Residents”. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the change of the commission for the draft law “Law on Administrative Territories and Accommodations”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision ‘On the impact of the parliamentary committee of inquiry on the objectives of implementing OIC aid, criteria for receiving aid, aid intensity, decision of the European Commission of 24 April 2017 in case SA. 43140 (2015/NN) and for the extension of the duration of the actions of law enforcement authorities.’ Member Mārtiņš Stein, on behalf of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U807	Hello, fellow Members, again! This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. On behalf of the Council, I ask the Saeima to extend the mandate and mandate of the panel for a period of three months. During the duration of the OIC Investigation Commission, we have received a large ( I would even say a huge!) the quantity of information. The information already received in September exceeded 10,000 pages. The laws and regulations, their annotations, historical versions, various media materials and other information that can contribute are also analysed. A large part of the material has been scanned, resulting in unusable search and even more time-consuming work on the material. This week we have received almost 200 more pages with materials from the Joint Stock Company “Salales tīkls”. The commission also needs time to listen to a number of persons who have taken part in the decision-making process on OIC... the granting of rights, preparation of external regulatory framework and supervision of the operation of the authorisations granted. Up to this week, 12 meetings of the panel and several working meetings of the panel members have taken place, which not only collect and analyse the information received, but also hear the invited persons. Up to now, 20 persons have been interviewed, whose comments are analysed and assessed in relation to the information found in the documents. Several of these persons need to be invited again - to avoid contradictions. For a limited period of time, the Commission has not been able to invite about 40 additional persons to be heard. The Commission had a unanimous vote on the extension of the Commission's term of office. In view of the large amount of work and the limited administrative resources of the Commission, and on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 3 of the Parliamentary Commissions of Inquiry Act, I ask the Saeima to extend the term of office of the Commission by three months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U808	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U809	As you fellow Members, remember - and I think the whole society also remembers - the promise to deal with the OIC sphere was one of the main promises that many parties came to this Parliament and promised: if they were elected, they would resolve this... the story. It's been a whole year. Almost nothing has been done in principle. If we look at what is happening now, we see that those who have promised to fight it... Unfortunately, reality shows the opposite. Something that... Most recently, at the meeting of the Panel on Petitions, we looked at concrete facts about what the Ministry of Economics is currently doing. The Ministry of Economics is headed by one of the parties who... It was one of the most famous promises - that they will fight the OIC. It has been shown, by fact, that in fact the Ministry of Economics is currently doing the opposite - not trying to combat irregularities in this sector, but vice versa! - cover all of this. When the Ministry of Economics was instructed... When it was shown that this really was happening, the Ministry admitted... and tried to say that, you see, you don't let the law do it, because... and the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers have been adopted which do not allow them to do so, do not allow them to effectively deal with these frauds. Then they were told: “Well, well! If you're confused with legislation, then... We are currently amending the law. The electricity market law shall be amended accordingly.’ And do you know what is going on with these amendments - with these amendments, which would be necessary for the Ministry of Economics to deal with these frauds? The Ministry of Economics calls for their rejection, and the commission chaired by the representative of the same party also takes and rejects them! In principle, every effort is made to create a new cover for the OIC. Likely, with the facts, this has been proven. And there will be an opportunity to make sure that when there's a debate on these... on all this - both on the action of the Ministry of Economics and on these amendments to the Electricity Market Act, on which all members of the coalition said with foam on their lips: "Truly this must be supported! Tell us when it will be - we will support it!” Now that this time has come and there are real instruments with which to sort out the law and really do so in a legal, effective, quick way... to avoid this climate, these amendments are rejected. And if we're talking about the work of an investigative commission... I also see that it is one of such very important things that this committee of inquiry really does. Because, as I said, first of all, this is a very important promise for society. The other thing is, you can come back like the medical wages. Thus, the Saeima has decided on a specific task which must be carried out by this committee. There are very specific tasks by score. It's been six months. I've also followed the work of the commission. For the time being, I... No, I don't see any answer to one of these... Tasks. But according to the law, the commission must perform this task. So you, the commission, have to work in such a way that this task is fulfilled. Otherwise, the law will again be violated. And if it happens again, if this commission fails to fulfil this task, it will not have investigated this scene, then it will again be another violation of the law, another reason for society to have reason to dismiss such Saeima, because it does not fulfill any of its promises, is unable to fulfill it. If it is not able to do so, then there is no such Saeima here to do. It should be released. Following the work of this commission, I really have concerns about whether the commission will manage this task, because, as you are currently doing, all the documents of these interviews that are being conducted... I did not hear from the rapporteur anything that the Commission would actually have done. Yes, you have heard, you have received documents, but where are the conclusions? Where are the answers to your questions? More and more, listening to all these interviews, we feel that all those who come are serving themselves as heroes who have fought against the OIC. In principle, the OIC is beginning to develop as a hydr that lives its own life and is a mechanism with which everyone has fought, tried to fight, but it has not developed in any way. All ministers, all these responsible persons who have actually made all of this... This could in principle be proved by the facts, but the Commission does not deal with it at the moment. And that is what I call attention to. You have been given a specific task, and you have left now... I hope we will support you for three months to come, but within these three months your task is, in accordance with the law, to carry out what the Saeima has given you. Otherwise, this OIC Commission of Inquiry will become the OIC Board of Covering. Unfortunately, this is what it looks like at the moment. It's all going to it. But I call on the Commission to approach this work very responsibly, to use the advice that has been given to you, because it is known how you can do it. In principle, you can do this in three months. You just have to start doing those things to really investigate this aero, not to put it on it and make it a new cover! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U810	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U811	Yes, colleagues, I am also a member of this committee. I also wrote a proposal for an extension of the deadline. The rapporteur has already outlined, but I think there is something more to say here. I would like to say to Mrs Krapāne, the chairman of the Commission, that I am pleasantly surprised at the way in which this committee is managed: indeed, very much one of the political sympathys, equal treatment for all. A number of officials have so far been heard by the Commission... and there is still a need to listen, including from existing government ministers who have not yet been heard. I must join Mr Zarins in saying that hearing every former official, existing official really gives the impression that everyone has done everything possible to limit and stop the OIC. In my opinion, there was only one official who, by nature... It was a former State Secretary at the Ministry of Economics who said that there could have been much more effective means, these still... All control mechanisms have not justified themselves. But very many officials show each other with their finger that “I don’t, but that’s the other”, and then we call it another, and then go that ring... But I don't want to say that... I think we will all draw conclusions together and listen to the other rapporteurs. One minister says... Former Minister says: “It’s what I see I just wrote, but the drafter was the Secretary of State.” Well then we will also listen to that Secretary of State and continue our work. We have not forgotten the task assigned to the commission. That is very specific, and very specific questions... a lot of questions. In a meeting with some experts, so - in essence, to answer... Industry experts have said that it would take years to answer the questions we have asked ourselves. I think that we will be able to come together to these answers and, for the next three months - if we take a few more interviews with former officials - this will also be the main task we have to do - a final report must be drawn up. There are a number of conclusions that... At least I have personally... which should be included from profit rates to control mechanisms, which we had already included in this year's budget and which were not supported, but nothing. I hope that they will also be included in the final report of the Commission. These are the specific proposals that should be made. I call on my fellow Members to support the extension. That work is not a simple one that we are currently facing in this Commission. I would like to say thank you to all the members of the Commission, and everyone really works. And, as I said, without such political sympathy, really questions are being asked, without distinguishing between the party from which one came, whether he is a prime minister at the moment or... That's what he is. I very much hope that we will succeed in drawing up a result-oriented final report with concrete proposals on how to really avoid this OIC and make these payments here... especially for those illegal organisations and companies that are currently receiving these payments, would cease and we would end up with a good final report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U812	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U813	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! After 13. The election of the Saeima created an objective situation... of which... right in this hall... that the majority of the Saeima was not associated with this afer... at least as far as I know, no. And there were conditions to stop it, including to investigate it in the Commission. In fact, it is the appointment of Kryšjānis Kariņš as the Prime Minister and participation in this government that majority at least temporarily... Stopped. But I call on you today to support the extension of the Commission's term of office. I still feel - if not convinced, at least feeling - that there are people in the Commission who want to investigate this case - above all, the head of the commission Ieva Krapāne. Consequently, time must be given. Finally, it is very likely that during these three months, the head of the OIC will no longer lead the government, and also in the Commission work more quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U814	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U815	I would also like to add that there is also an interim report that will shortly be passed on to the Saeima. And that is a decision that is necessary, because tomorrow, too, the mandate of the support staff of the Commission expires. And since we need them, that decision will also help. I therefore call for support for this draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U816	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft decision ‘On the objectives, impact, eligibility criteria, aid intensity, decision of the parliamentary committee of inquiry of the Saeima on the implementation of OIC aid, decision of the European Commission of 24 April 2017 in case SA. 43140 (2015/NN) and on extending the duration of actions by law enforcement authorities’! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On the Parliament’s consent to the reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2019”” (No. 263/Lm13). Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U817	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The budget and financial (tax) commission has examined a number of appropriations. Part of them concerns the general vote of the Saeima, so... The Commission has all been supported. To this end, please support the reallocation of appropriations provided for in the draft decision No. 263/Lm13. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “What is she about? Report what this appropriation is about!’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U818	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the Parliament’s consent to reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget for 2019”” (No. 263/Lm13)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 59, against and refrains. Decision adopted.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U819	The budget and financial (tax) commission has also examined the draft decision “On the Parliament’s consent to reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2019”” (No. 264/Lm13). I ask you to support this because the Commission has supported it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Riena: “What is she about?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U820	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U821	Dear colleagues, As we can see from the documents submitted, both this draft decision and some of the next ones point to the fact that in the Ministry of Economics... The financial resources left in the electricity user support programme are quite significant. And it's amazing that in the 2020 budget as well as in the 2019 budget... We made proposals that made it necessary to extend the support of electricity users to groups of protected users, such as the disabled of Group I and families raising children with disabilities. I will repeat to you that this support is currently different from that of large families by 200 kilowatt-hours. This means that families of large children receive a EUR 15 discount for electricity, but people with Group I disabilities and people raising children with disabilities receive only EUR 5 in support. Several letters have also confirmed that support for electricity costs for these groups is very necessary for various reasons. Not only because of high consumption (as in a large family), but also because of the use of special devices... consumption... Unfortunately, none of you, honourable coalition colleagues, have listened to the opposition's request to pay attention to this issue. And what we see on these reallocations is that the amount of money left behind for this support... it is simply divided into other sectors. I would remind you that according to the calculations provided by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economics, the amount necessary to increase this aid is 900,000... around 900 thousand euros. And we see that the amount that is left behind is much higher than what we have asked for in 2019 and 2020. It is therefore inconceivable why you rejected our proposal in 2019, why you rejected our proposals in the Committee chaired by Mr Witenberg on amendments to the Electricity Market Act, why you still continue to reject the proposals and to continue simply to extort the money that would have helped these protected groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U822	Name... So I closed the debate. Members are no longer willing to debate. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U823	No, no. On behalf of the Commission, I can only add that the Commission has supported this reallocation.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U824	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the Parliament’s consent to reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget for 2019”” (No. 264/Lm13)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 55, for - 9, for - 1. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On the Parliament’s consent to the reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2019”” (No. 265/Lm13). Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U825	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has also examined the appropriations that have been redistributed from the budget programmes of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Ministry of Culture, so please support you... Just like the Budget Commission... This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U826	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the Parliament’s consent to reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget for 2019”” (No. 265 Lm13)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On the Parliament’s consent to the reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2019”” (No. 266/Lm13). Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U827	Colleagues! The budget and financial (tax) commission has examined the reallocation of appropriations from the budget sub-programmes of the Saeima, the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Welfare to the budget sub-programmes of the Ministry of Health. Total amount - 5 210 982 EUR. Request to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U828	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the Parliament’s consent to reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget for 2019”” (No. 266 Lm13)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On the Parliament’s consent to the reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2019”” (No. 267/Lm13). Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U829	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The budget and financial (tax) commission has also examined this reallocation of appropriations, which concerns the long-term commitment event “The grant for reconstruction of the new Riga Theatre building of SJSC “Valsts Real Estate”” in the amount of 50 thousand euros, – the reallocation to the budget sub-programme of the Ministry of Culture to support the event “ROMA WORK 2019”. ( Internouncing call.) Request to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U830	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the Parliament’s consent to reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget for 2019”” (No. 267/Lm13)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 63, against and refrains. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On the Parliament’s consent to the reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2019”” (No. 268/Lm13). Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U831	Colleagues! Please also support the reallocation of appropriations supported by the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission from the budget sub-programme of the Ministry of Finance to the budget sub-programme of the Ministry of Transport of 7 million. Request to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U832	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the Parliament’s consent to reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget for 2019”” (No. 268/Lm13)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 60, against and abstaining. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On the Parliament’s consent to the reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2019”” (No. 269/Lm13). Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U833	Colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has also examined the reallocation of appropriations from the budget of the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development to the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science and is asking you to support this reallocation as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U834	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the Parliament’s consent to reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget for 2019”” (No. 269/Lm13)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, Members Pavļuts, Strīķe, Dzintars, Pucens and Latkovskis are asking to begin the sitting of the Saeima on November 21 at 13:30. Are Members against this proposal? There is no objection. So on November 21, this year, we will start at 6: 30 a.m. Dear colleagues, The questions put by Members and the replies to them. Member: Ms Zarina, Mr Klementyeva, Mr Orlova, Mr Lochmele-Lunovo and Mr Kabanov, Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Ralf Nemiro (No. 82/J13) ‘On the authenticity of the replies of the Ministry of Economics in connection with the participation of officials of the Ministry of Economics in the cover of possible criminal offences in relation to the results of the OIC inspection of power plants’. A written reply from the Minister has been received. It does not satisfy the applicants, but the oral Members do not want to ask any further questions. The ministers received written answers to questions asked by Members of the Parliament, Mr Augulis, Ms Reizniece–Ozola, Mr Bergmanis, Mr Vucanas and Mr Valaiņš (from No. 85/J13 to No 97J13). All 13 written respondents received are not satisfied, but the oral Members do not wish to ask further questions. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name for the statement to the Member Andrejs Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U835	Good afternoon, honourable Members! Right away, in two or three minutes, let's start working in the library in a new format, a new specialized commission... I ask you to meet the members of the panel for the election of the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U836	Name for the statement to Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U837	Dear colleagues, Immediately after the Saeima sitting right next to the Yellow House, we will set up a group of Members to support Russian civil society. Welcome to participate!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U838	Name for Maria Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, to report on the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U839	Not registered: Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla, Inese Ikstena, Armands Krauze, Māris Kučinskis, Romanas Naudiņš, Ramona Petraviča and Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-21-PT13-2021-U840	Thank you. I'm locked. I would like to remind you once again that the agenda for the meeting on 21 November this year will be discussed at 2.30 p.m.
