ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Colonel is 9 a.m. I invite you to take a seat in the Chamber so that we can begin the sitting of the Saeima on 7 March 2019. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. Colleagues, let's start the Saeima sitting! The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Secret” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( FROM a faction: ‘ Yes! ’ ) So there is. Mr. Adamson, will you talk about it or 'no'? ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Jānis Adamsons.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U2	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, As we can see from those inscriptions... The sovereign power of the state of Latvia belongs to the people of Latvia, which it exercises through the leaders of 100 people. In order to do this more successfully, various commissions have been set up in Parliament, including the National Security Commission, whose main task is to exercise parliamentary control over our country's particular services. That is what the commission is dealing with or not - it is another question. We will be examining today the amendment to the law on state secrecy, which, by its very nature, has nothing to do with parliamentary control over the special services. The amendment was submitted that, in order to perform its functions successfully, the Chair of the Central Electoral Commission should have a tolerance of state secrecy. Unfortunately, I did not hear any arguments from either the Commission or the authors who should have participated in the commission meeting and who could have made their arguments there. The specs are not initiators of this amendment, they consider it optional. What are these amendments for? Geopolitika, the latest technology, which would be all right, is being called on, but geopolitika is being called if someone has a broken water supply. Then we're looking for the guilty, but don't look at what we've done. An elementary question. All right, let's give the permission, let's change the law so that the president of the CEC has the permission of the country's secret. But there is an elemental question that I also asked Mr Cimdar: “OK, you will get access to the country’s secret, get acquainted with some secret documents. What happens next? What are you gonna do in the sitting? The CVK is sitting when a decision will have to be made, but no one knows anything, and you cannot say?” Colleagues, I would like to remind you that there is a successful form of commitment in the issue of access to state secrets in Latvia - people, including lawyers in criminal matters, witnesses, victims, and signatories for non-disclosure of relevant messages. If they do, criminal liability can follow. Here, the same policy can be pursued as well, unless there are completely different objectives behind these amendments. We were allowed to introduce the country's secret NEPLP only when, according to the court, he was unlawfully removed from office, Mr Diamond, the former NEPLP leader. But what does tolerance give? If the law provides that a person is to be granted admission to national secrecy, he shall automatically lose his job as soon as he is deprived of his admission. I had a question that I asked Mr Cimdara and others: how, then, has the CEC existed for all these 30 years, while its President was not in a position to accept the country's secret? Is it really necessary? If the Chair of the CEC requires admission to national secrecy, then it shall also be required for members of the CEC. If we are talking about the fact that the CEC chairman is not able to take part in some of the activities relating to the latest technologies in the field of security, then, sorryly, there is an elemental matter - signature, letter of commitment. And let's go! And then you can't reveal. In my opinion, this is a simple manipulation, especially at a time when the matter of the president of the CEC is being dealt with. This is a very good argument to try to manipulate potential candidates for the position of President of the CEC through the specialised services. I call for this draft law not to be passed on to the Commission without voting either on urgency or on adoption at first reading, because I have unfortunately not heard arguments about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U3	“About” has applied to speak Member Maris Kučinskis. ( The box “Hear it now! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U4	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Members, Mr Adamson, I really did not stand for this commission, and you are right that the arguments must be explained. At first, I would like to say that it does not even have anything to do with it and there is no need to do so: at the moment, it is also simply giving permission to the members of the commission. But the justification arose during the previous term. At the same time there were both the Cabinet of Ministers... So for me too, as former Prime Minister, the question... and at the same time as I am... I know exactly what happened at the Saeima... Also the issue of the then National Security Commission... This is due to the fact that the world has changed slightly and the work of the CEC is no longer so simple. I mean, it's just what it's like... with its necessary votes... on fair elections, on districts, on all the needs that are usually... But we have new concepts that may have been alien in the past - hybrid war, strategic communication. What concerns the entire European Union, and I think the whole world, is both false news, different messages and attempts to influence the electoral system. We set up a structure in the Cabinet, which... Mr. Karins has taken it over. And I am sure that it will also function successfully in the elections to the European Parliament, so that all information about potential threats, about the information that comes... not the nature that you need... unite in one place in the Cabinet of Ministers. Our group is now even being called upon to various European countries as a positive example of coordination. But now imagine that in this game, in this information that still appears, one of the persons - the CEC manager - is excluded, because simply you can't tell him anything. He's not in the course of things that the group does and what news is. That is why both this proposal and, in the past, the absolute conviction that, irrespective of who will be the head of the CEC - whether it will remain Mr Cimdar or not - we are not interfering in these matters. This is what Parliament is doing, but at the same time, we must not be the head of the CEC in the elections from all information. He must be in the same group and understand what is happening in the less visible world. That is the only reason. If ever the world becomes even more complicated and others will need tolerance as well... but right now, I think there's nothing to shout in demands that maybe... I do not see any arguments, so I also call on the Commission not to debate in a direction that people still should, but to support the fact that the CEC's head cannot be isolated without being able to know all the information that is necessary to manage successfully. In so far as I call for inclusion on the agenda and I very much hope for the productive work of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption to adopt the amendment after a week, next Thursday, regardless of who will be the head of the CEC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U5	Thank you. Colleagues, one Member has spoken about, one against. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law “Amendment to the law “On State Secret” in the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. The Legal Commission is asking to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision “On Extension of the Term of Submission of Proposals in the Law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law” (No. ( 141/Lp13) for second reading until 1 July 2019.’ Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Notaries” (No. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft decision “On the revocation of Iveta Silicka, a judge of Zemgale district court from the position of a judge”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission requests that the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals be included on the agenda of the sitting (No. 178/Lp13) for the second reading until 12 March 2019.’ Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on “Amendments to the Immigration Law” presented by Member Liepiņa, Benhen-Beken, Schmidt, Pucens and Wittenberg be referred to the Commission for the Prevention of Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption, which states that it is the committee responsible. ‘ against’ applied to speak to Raivis Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U6	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The proposal to allow third-country students to work for 40 hours is an absurd revitalisation of Sleser's policy. In accordance with the Immigration Law, the Cabinet of Ministers determines the procedure whereby a foreigner is entitled to employment. The Cabinet of Ministers has also been delegated to establish a list of professions where significant labour shortages are predicted. Why do such standards exist? Why? Because attracting immigrants to the labour market affects not only the interests of a particular employer, but also other public interests. The law and the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers form a system that aims to balance the real need for additional labour and the interests of Latvian citizens will not be competed with cheaper labour force. In addition, employment issues are not excluded from other areas of national importance, such as the cultural environment, security. They are not isolated from integration problems and other issues. This is why, at national level, a balanced migration policy is being developed for each country. In the case of Latvia, other - especially - circumstances which are not specific to other countries must also be taken into account in the formulation of this policy. Over the last century, Latvia has already experienced large immigration. Latvia was purposefully russified. And now we are still fighting the consequences of these events. Many geopolitical risks are only relevant because historical migration processes have hit us more severely than any other European country. Therefore, Latvia has made it clear: yes, we are not opposed to attracting labour from abroad, but subject to conditions. Firstly, there is a real shortage of labour in the profession in question. Secondly, they are well-paid jobs in sectors that require a high level of education, where a high added value product is created. If Ainars Šleser's residence permit trading business is not included, Latvia has been rejecting mass immigration and has defended its citizens against the fact that cheap labour reduces employers' motivation to pay higher wages to our own citizens. This policy can, of course, be accepted and not agreed. Members shall have the right to different views. If someone believes that it should be done according to other principles, put your cards in the table and try to convince you of your righteousness. However, what is written in these amendments to the law is simply an unfair path. This way of circumventing the immigration rules that have been agreed so far. It is proposed that certain categories of foreigners should no longer be covered by the common national policy. In particular, they are foreign nationals who will be ready to pay part of their wages to a private educational institution, for example, by obtaining a certificate that a person is a student. At one time, the media reported that the accreditation of this kind of business was lost by the Latvian Business College, but in a short time its management had already taken over a new educational institution, for which similar complaints were received again. We are in favour of foreign students studying in Latvian universities, but - with the emphasis that they study in these universities. At present, it is not possible to check how often a foreigner attends educational institutions, what his or her success is. The foreigner will arrange the documents, register at the university and then, if they come into effect, work full time until they are deducted or they are not deducted if they pay hard. Tell me, what is the point of immigration rules regarding employment when they are being circumvented through the back door? Of course, education also suffers because instead of competing with each other in terms of the quality of education, the gates are opened for the almost eliminated business of Shleser's residence permit. The rector of the University of Latvia, Indriķis Muižnieks, also confirmed that this idea - the third-country students to work for 40 hours - is absurd. These are the names of the rector. Words that I have been allowed to say from this platform. Dear colleagues, These are two different audiences: people who drive here primarily to study and perhaps work a little bit in their free time, and people who go here to work and who have an educational institution just a means of achieving this goal. Let us be honest for our own sakes, let us be accountable to the state, and let us reject this freshness of Schleser's policy! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U7	“About” has applied to speak to Member Didzis Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U8	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! We have been talking a lot about a number of things in Latvia - how to promote exports, how to reduce the shadow economy, how we already have very acute shortages of labour in virtually all sectors. This amendment of the law, which is perhaps simple, is, in fact, also wider in all areas. I hope that this is not just one amendment that we will be discussing, but that we will, in fact, also discuss other things when we amend this. In particular, one very important export sector - education export - is developing successfully with us. Any foreign student studying in Latvia is export. He spends here his parents' money paying for studies, renting an apartment or otherwise, using food, going to cultural events and so on. It is foreign money that has flowed to Latvia. On 31 January, the number of such students who received temporary residence permits in Latvia was 6404. We are not talking about tens, or where we are still hundreds of thousands, which would actually be a good debate, how to achieve more indicators... but perhaps at the end of it. It is a question of students who want to work. I am sorry that I will talk about living people as an economic resource today, but it is an economic resource. They pay money, as I said, but part of them - they're a couple of thousands of people - they want to work. Today we say that they must not work more than 20 hours a week. Why? Why do we not let them work? I think we've all been students, many of you are now too, and I've personally worked during the studies because there was no other possibility. In view of the fact that we are acutely lacking in the workforce... if we are talking about the shadow economy, then, in my opinion, not allowing legal work to be done, we create conditions that promote the shadow economy. In other words, if a student has to work to survive what he or she may have understood only when he or she arrives in the country of residence and finds out the total cost, but in return there is an employer who may have a unique opportunity, perhaps the only chance to fill a vacancy, it is likely that they will find a way to agree that the formal will be 20 hours, but will work more, thus actually contributing to the informal economy. What are we doing with that? In fact, we not only do not allow the student to receive remuneration, but also do not allow the employer to pay full taxes to the Latvian State for the student. Moreover, I apologise once again for cynicism, these are the best taxpayers from an economic point of view. They will never come after pensions, they will never come after benefits, they will finish studies in Latvia, pay taxes and leave. And this money will remain for us. What Raivis Dzintars said... I don't know, he's probably consulted Shleser, and I understand that's his policy... I don't know, but it seems to me to be nonsense. We are questioning our education system, questioning our universities, questioning the Ministry of Education and Science, questioning the ability of the Authority for Citizenship and Migration Affairs to control whether a student is studying or not and to act. Seriously! We should turn to Mrs Šuplinska and talk very seriously about this. What do I want to say in the end and why I hope to open the debate? Today, when I was going to the Saeima sitting, I listened to the radio. Ilze Viņķele, Minister for Health, said that there are huge problems with medical staff in hospitals. And she said that one of the solutions could be to allow foreign students to work in hospitals. This is not about 20 hours, but more generally about other restrictions on students' work. I call for support for the referral of the draft law to the Commission and for the Commission to discuss this issue more widely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U9	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law on Immigration to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption, making it a responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. (Applause) The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the member Stepanenko, Gobzema, Liepāja, Smita and Sprūde be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that he is the responsible commission. ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U10	Dear colleagues, With effect from 1 January 2019, amendments providing for an additional tax rate of EUR 300 per vehicle with an engine capacity exceeding 3500 cubic centimetres have entered into force. And we could certainly imagine that in this way we would make the owners of the so-called thick jeep pay an additional EUR 300 in the state budget, because that would only be the case for them... The value of the lunch break. Let it be! But, you can see, colleagues, the people who need a car every day have also entered this category. These are, for example, the owners, holders and owners of seven local cars. And they are mostly a multi-child family car - families with four or more children who have preferred a large and large car. This is a daily need for such families. Unfortunately, according to current legislation, multi-child families with functionally needed family cars with more than five seats will have to pay 50 per cent of the additional rate, in addition to the vehicle tax, which is EUR 300. This means, however, that the tax on heavy jeeps and sports machines will also have affected families who choose the so-called hoards for their family's everyday lives. I think you'll agree with me that's unfair. And the legislator certainly did not want to deal with people who really needed such a car in everyday life in this way. Today, some 183 large families have been affected by these changes in taxes. But it is also an unpleasant surprise for the other owners, holders, and rulers of the seven local buses. I call on you, my fellow Members, to start a discussion with many children's families and to come to the best solution in the discussion. I ask you today to refer this draft law to the Commission for consideration and to come together to a more positive solution. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U11	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Construction of the State Border Strip of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation” be submitted to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ “A Member, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U12	Good morning, Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! I really call for support for and work on the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission as a matter of urgency with this draft law prepared by the government. In addition to providing for further technical adjustments to the calculation of the national social security contribution and the tax exemption for the winnings of cheques, there is one significant case that is proposed by this draft law. This is linked to a situation where, in the case of progressive tax systems, a person is obliged to pay a tax premium. Some comments from me. The first step towards the progressive nature of the tax system was already introduced in 2015... starting in 2016, when the differential non-taxable minimum was applied: the higher the salary, the smaller the non-taxable minimum - and vice versa. But at that point it was stipulated that a person could get a refund in recapitulative order by making a declaration after a year, which is not fair, because this means that a large number of people credit the country. This was also pointed out in the Ombudsman's report on one of the aspects of tax reform... which has been prepared this year. And it is also not fair because it was obvious that a large proportion of the public do not know their right to submit a declaration and to recover the excess tax from the State. Statistics also show this because the number of people who (the head of the sitting knocks down with a hammer.) submitted declarations for the 2016 tax period, was only 15 and a half thousand, for the 2017 tax period – 29 and a half thousand. For comparison, already 270 thousand people have submitted declarations for the tax period 2018. When the tax reform was discussed and, in general, whether we need a proportionate or progressive tax system, the majority of the social partners, members of the government and also members of the Saeima agreed that we need a progressive system and that we need to ensure that the benefits of tax incentives are available to a person, if he so wishes, immediately - every month. Of course, this makes administration difficult. We looked at this happening in neighbouring countries, such as Estonia, where there is a progressive tax system. To a large extent, the staff member is responsible for making the calculations. The employer... Desiring to come a step in return, in order to facilitate the calculation of the employer, it is agreed that the State Revenue Service, taking into account the income of the person in the previous period, sends information to the employer once a half-year about the indicative or forecasted non-applicable monthly minimum. In this way, a step is being taken to make it easier for a person to benefit, but this means, of course, that it is not always possible to predict precisely the amount of income, especially in cases where a person's income changes rapidly over the course of the year, when they grow, when a person has multiple jobs or has changed jobs and, during this transitional period, the employer has not taken into account the exact applicable personal income tax rate and the non-taxable minimum. As a result, at the time when the declarations are submitted, we see that part of the public is overpaid and part of it is paid. Yesterday's statistics were that out of some 200 thousand declarations, 186 and half of the population have generated tax overpayments, they will recover a total of EUR 34.8 million from the country, while about 14 thousand have come with a premium of a total of one million. Of course, this is not a pleasant feeling, especially at a time when we are trying to get used to a progressive system, when perhaps there is a need to pay the country and when a transitional period is needed to get used up and not really having to make a real payment. Already at the beginning of the year, as Minister for Finance, I commissioned the Ministry of Finance to prepare amendments to the law, which provides for a longer transitional period: the possibility for citizens to settle with the state by the end of 2020. It is likely that, in most cases, instead of paying money, it will compensate for overpayments for the next period. This is also the case, and this possibility is provided by the draft law on vulnerable groups, those who are employees whose income does not exceed EUR 20 000 per year. I think that, between readings, we should still think about extending the scope to persons other than solidarity taxpayers, namely those who receive a higher remuneration. Think also about other solutions, for example, to allow accountants to apply the unlimited minimum if they see that it will be real, and if it is different from the unlimited minimum predicted by the State Revenue Service...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U13	Thank you. Speech Time... Talking time, sorry, it's over!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U14	... and allow the State Revenue Service to apply 10-15 percent...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U15	Mrs. Reizniece-Ozola, the speaking time is over. It shall not be extended in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda - reports by the Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. Dear colleagues, Members Aldis Gobzems, Karina Sprūde, Didzis Šmits, Jūlija Stepanenko, Uldis Augulis, Maris Kučinskis, Raimonds Bergmanis, Jānis Vucāns, Linda Liepiņa and Gundars Dauge have submitted their own proposal – the draft decision “On the abolition of personal income tax for one dependant in families with at least four children, as well as personal income tax for dependants in families with three children”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. And Members Aldis Gobzems, Karina Sprūde, Didzis Šmits, Jūlija Stepanenko, Uldis Augulis, Maris Kučinskis, Raimonds Bergmanis, Jānis Vucāns, Linda Liepiņa and Gundars Many have submitted an own-initiative proposal – a draft decision “On a 30 percent reduction in public sector employees”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection. Consequently, the own-initiative proposal is on the agenda. On the granting of leave. For unpaid leave granted to Member Armandas Krauzem on 27 and 28 February this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Armands Krauze requesting him to be granted unpaid leave. The Saeima Bureau has granted unpaid leave on 27 and 28 February of this year and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to Anda Chakša Member on 27 and 28 February this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from a Member, Anda Chakša, requesting her to be granted unpaid leave on 27 and 28 February this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For the granting of unpaid leave to a Member, Daniel Pavļuts, from 12 March to 14 March. Colleagues! We must vote on this. Please call me! We will be voting for the granting of unpaid leave to Member Daniel Pavilut from 12 March to 14 March this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Title of the agenda: Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Julija Stepanenko from the Commission of European Affairs. The floor in the debate for Member Julija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U16	Dear colleagues, I hope you also remembered International Anti-Discrimination Day on 1 March... And now you see that I'm one percent out of 100 here, standing before you. I am an absolute minority of the Saeima. The independent Member, or the non-attached Member, is not a status at all. It's a man outside the system. Do you think I have the right to take part in the Fragment Council? Do you think that I have the right to be nominated to the parliamentary mandate, ethics and application commission? Do you think I have the right, for example, to participate in a commission that will be set up to conduct a parliamentary inquiry on a subject? Do you think that someone can justify my justified delay in sitting if I go to a meeting? No one can do that. And I'm discriminated against. So maybe you could at least show minimum respect for this one per cent of 100 and finally tell me the real reason why you don't let this one person change the commission, work on the commission he wants to work for? Because for these three weeks, when I try to get your permission to change commissions, I hear only such arguments that Mr. Latkovsky is afraid of the actions of Mr. Urbanovičs, Mr. Riekstins is insulted to the Riga City Council, but no serious legal basis can I get. When may you vote 'no' again today, before that you could come and say, at least on behalf of basic dignity, what is the legal basis? You had three weeks to prepare. Otherwise, it is simply cynical ridicule of one percent of 100. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U17	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U18	Good morning, people's servants! Listening to Julia Stepanenko's request not to discriminate against him, I looked at the coalition, which was sitting, and - not all, of course, but part of it - a little bit like it was raging about this situation. It seems to me that it is disrespectful, firstly, to a woman, secondly, it is fear of one Member. I think that the arguments that make it clear that your relative in another institution should do something and vote differently sound like this revanchism. As we know, more than 100 years ago the Revanchists took over power. What did it end with? It ended with many deaths, embarrassment, and so on. Perhaps you have to stop being a revanchist, you have to stop abhoring Julia Stepanenko, and you simply have to be correct with one Member of the Saeima, because you also want each of you to be treated individually. You too, Sandi Riekstin, who, always using an ad hominem argument from the Saeima Tribunal, want you to be treated without discrimination. So the only request is really... perhaps with respect to all the Members of the Saeima, because it is exactly the same attitude that you also want in every vote that affects everyone on a case-by-case basis. I ask to support Julia Stepanenko's desire to change the commission. The Member has such a right and that right cannot be restricted in a democratic state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U19	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U20	Good morning, colleagues! It is already the third time (Interior: “Oop! Opa!’ ) Julia Stepanenko tries to replace the commission. The Commission, in which she is trying to get to, is, in my opinion, one of the foundations of democracy, because there must be a place in the Saeima to express her displeasure, thoughts about one or the other member of the government and other issues. However, if one Member does not want to see there, there is no real justification right now. Last week, we, individual Members from the coalition, all voted unanimously to continue working there. I also believe that the balance between coalition and opposition has been respected in some ways. However, if such a attitude towards the commission in question continues in this way, then I do not see any meaning for such a commission, because the Saeima does not allow Members who want to work in it to do so. But the result... What will be the result? The result will be quite simple: these questions will not come from the Request Commission, and they will be requests from the Ministers to be discussed here, from this troupe. They will not be requests, but they will be referrals to ministers; we will not be going to discuss them in the Commission, but here from the tribunal. This awaits us if we continue to do so. I call for support and for Julia Stepanenko to be given the opportunity to change the commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U21	Name to Member Raiv Dzintar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U22	Colleagues! Here the concept of dignity has been mentioned several times. And I would like to say that I certainly respect my fellow Members, Julia Stepanenko. In my opinion, the Saeima's work must aim to ensure that respect is mutual. In my opinion, respect does not arise when you hit the table and talk about rights, but arises when you try to model situations by nature and understand what is the smartest solution in every case. If we assume that any Member has the right to act on any commission under any circumstances, then we can get into an absurd situation. Because the strength of the chain is tested after the weakest stage - after the situation in which we can in theory end up. In theory, we can face a situation where the number of independent Members is not one, two or three, but 10 or 20. We know that at the beginning of the Saeima's work, we all had one responsibility task in the political group: to divide our Members according to the commissions. And all those present know that it was always the search for a compromise. Not every Member's wish to go to the commission was satisfied. The principle of proportionality was sought so that Members could work wisely and organise the work of the Saeima. It cannot be that when a Member goes out of his political group, either by force or on a voluntary basis, and becomes independent, he can fulfil all his wishes. Well, according to that logic, we may have 50 independent Members on one day who will all want to work on the same commission. So there's no such right! And let us not turn this situation over to the absurd, but let us continue to work! I call for no support. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U23	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U24	Colleagues! At the meeting at which this farce began, I was unable to attend. I was on the Saeima mission. I felt that I could no longer be particularly surprised by politics and therefore by the work of the Saeima, but this was a real surprise. I think: how is it possible that, with regard to an independent Member, we will decide which commissions he will be working on? That he will not choose commissions, but will we decide?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I know there are Members who I am not surprised about... in this position - with authoritarian desires, determine a person how to be. But I was surprised by those who call themselves liberal and consider themselves reasonable men. There are arguments: What will happen if you may be in the Saeima 50, or how much is it that you don’t share? In fact, I do not think there will be a problem at that point in which the commissions will work. I think the problem will be in our political system at all. Why is that? Why not? And, sorry, politics is not some kind of majority power over a minority. Politics is the art of persuasion. It's just... Julia Stepanenko will survive that she is not on a commission. I have no doubt about this. But I think there's... Well, I don't know... I simply have such shame for the Saeima at the moment (Dep. R. Interchange of Money.) that the majority of the Saeima is afraid of one Member Julia Stepanenko... that she will be able to influence material matters by her opinion or vote. They interviewed ministers. Oh, my God, we heard the ministers! It really is something catastrophic in a democratic country! Each minister should actually come here once a week, at the tribunal, and account for his work and his own sector, and not just in the foreign debate once a year, we have to wait for the Foreign Minister. That should be the work of the Saeima! However, we are concerned at the moment that the Saeima could interfere with the work of ministers. I'm sorry, the Saeima gave work to those ministers! The Saeima has appointed them! I'm just saying yes. For it may come the day when you will be at the same place as Julia Stepanenko (Dep. A. Neighbours: “AWARD?” ) (a.k.a. And then you get exactly the same thing. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: “We will never be there!” ) Saeima's prestige is already so with these cardboard (Interface.) Members are so destroyed... Now where will we go if the majority now does not allow the minority to choose the commissions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U25	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U26	Dear colleagues, Thank you for your good words, Raivi Dzintar. I respect you, too. I respect each of you, all 99 people, here I will sit down, and also the members of the Saeima. But honourable colleagues, if we approach the work of the Saeima from the point of view that the interests and ability of a Member to work on a particular commission are determined by the group's leadership and agreement, then what are we talking about? Are we talking about the quality of Members' work for voters, if a Member's wish to work on a particular committee can be influenced by the way in which the group leaders have agreed among themselves on this board? And if we're talking about me, I'm not a second in this, 13. In the family, there were no political groups. This is a unique case. I could actually join the group now. ( Interface: ‘ Well but safe! ’ ) I have not worked for any second in a political group, I have not left or been excluded. ( Insight: “What did you say to the voters?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “) I did not deceive the voters, my colleagues, this was the wish of the group leader. I suffer from this right now, and all 99 people are witnesses of the fact that the majority is standing over one percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U27	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U28	The time when Raivis Dzintars and the naked torss stood by the Saeima has passed, now is the group discipline. Now it's not working in the interests of the people anymore, because I think it's in the interests of the people that every Member works in the Commission where he can work with the greatest return and competence, where he feels that his contribution to the Latvian society will be the greatest. Consequently, the argument that Jūlija Stepanenko cannot change the commission simply because there must be some group discipline, does not withstand any criticism, Raivi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U29	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U30	Colleagues! Mr Dzintara, there were references to an agreement that we, all Members of the Saeima, unanimously also reflected in the vote on the allocation of Members to the committees. It also contains, if I am not mistaken, paragraph 10. You can open, read all that independent Members - and at that time Jūlija Stepanenko was the only independent Member - are decided by the Saeima. And there is no agreement there - yes, no, no, no, yes, she is at one or the other group - there is very specific: "The Saeima decides." I therefore also call on the Saeima to decide. There are no restrictions on this issue. And those Members who have been independent Members in the previous Saeima, remember how you went - no one has ever questioned the Commission you wanted to work on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U31	The debate is still... I closed the debate. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “I can!” ) The debate is closed. Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Julia Stepanenko from the Commission for European Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 35, for - 52, for - 1. Consequently, no decision has been taken. The next item is the draft decision on the election of Member Julia Stepanenko to the Panel on Petitions - colleagues, not to vote. On the agenda - draft decision on the approval of the Permanent Representative of the Latvian Delegation, the Head of Delegation and the Deputy Head of Delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of the Permanent Representative of the Latvian Delegation, the Head of Delegation and the Deputy Head of Delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On removal of Iveta Silickas, judge of Zemgale district court from office of a judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U32	Dear colleagues, In the closed session of 6 March 2019, the Legal Commission examined the draft decision “On the revocation of Iveta Silicka, a judge of Zemgale district court from the office of a judge”. The materials of the disciplinary case of the judge Iveta Silicka in compliance with the Law on Disciplinary Liability of Judges have limited access to information. Members of the Legal Commission got acquainted with the materials of the disciplinary case. The judge has committed an administrative violation, on which the Judicial Disciplinary Committee adopted a decision to propose the annulment of judge Iveta Silicka from the position of judge. The members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision ‘On the dismissal of Iveta Silicka, Judge at Zemgale District Court from the position of judge’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on Iveta Silickas to be removed from office of a judge. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U33	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On revocation of Iveta Silicka, a judge of Zemgale district court from office of a judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, The next item is the reports by the Prime Minister, Ministers and other officials. The Ombudsman's report shall be on the agenda. The Ombudsman has warned that the report could be about 45 minutes long. Colleagues, let us listen to the Ombudsman's report and only then go on a break. Members, I hope there's no objection? No, thank you. We're going on. On the agenda - “Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Latvia 2018”. Name to Ombudsman Juris Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U34	Madam President of your Excellency Saeima. Dear Members, People of Latvia! You certainly think the next big report to be heard. Maybe. But many of you will hear the Ombudsman's report in this room for the first time. And believe me – this information will be useful and valuable for all of you, because it affects each of you and us. I have a question: what do you usually have to do with the preparation of different reports? For me personally, it's like déj? vu - to take a look at what has been done, to survive the emotions that have already survived and to come to the conclusions that I have already reached. This year has been the next year of evidence and challenges for me and the office. A lot has been done. Even very, very much. This is also reflected in the volume of the 2018 report: 447 pages. Today's report will be presented in the following order: I will start with a very small overview of last year's statistics, then continue with thematic reviews, broken down by area of activity of the Ombudsman. The first to be presented will be the area of children's rights, then I will continue with the area of civil and political rights and will finally conclude my report with a summary of social, economic and cultural rights. All areas of activities of the Ombudsman are equally significant and indistinguishable. As a clock mechanism - one element drives the other, and when someone is missing, there is no sazobe. A little bit more about statistics (see page 357 for more details). In 2018, we received 1716 applications and initiated 50 inspection cases in the office, and there are more than 1500 documents transferred from various institutions. Forty-five cases were brought on the basis of individual applications and five on my own initiative. We have also provided answers to 800 different questions in an email. Despite the large amount of written submissions and requests for information, we have provided 6061 oral consultations, both telephone and on-site. We have interviewed 30 forced removals, organised 108 educational seminars, discussions and other events, and prepared 6271 publications in the media. We have participated in working groups and commissions 143 times. Last year we carried out inspections at 57 state and municipal institutions (closed and partially closed institutions, educational institutions). At first, we planned even more inspection visits, but we did not do so much. You might ask why? I can say that we have not planned that so many state and local authorities have so much problems that are not systematically related, which require both extra time for investigation and additional resources for making recommendations. In particular, I would like to highlight the statistics concerning the issue of compliance with the principle of good administration - we have given 34 opinions to state institutions on draft legal acts and 18 opinions to the Constitutional Court. I consider these indicators to be a valid reason for the Ombudsman's office to be seen as one of the most important elements in the establishment of a state of legal and social responsibility. If we are talking about the opinions of the Constitutional Court, I would like to highlight in particular the most serious things in my view. I would like to highlight my opinion in the Constitutional Court case on amendments to the Law on Education. In the case, the contested norms provide for introduction of a uniform standard of secondary education and transition to secondary education only in state language, as well as increase the proportion of Latvian use in minority education programmes at primary level. In our view, the contested norms comply with the Satversme. As an important notable opinion in the case of the Constitutional Court, where the content of the dispute was about the possibilities of persons with different types of disability to receive a benefit for special adjustment of a passenger car and compensation of transport expenses. People with mental disorders and intellectual development disorders, who may cause disease exacerbation in public transport, could not receive the allowance, therefore I drew the court's attention to the development of the rights of persons with disabilities from the medical model to the human rights model, in addition to the recommendations of the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities to Latvia. I found that the Government regulations, in so far as they did not provide for the possibility of receiving compensation for transport expenses for persons with mental health impairments, do not comply with the Satversme. In this case, the court fully joined the Ombudsman’s reasoning. We have also given an opinion in a case in which the applicant, Tatjana Ždanoka, asked to evaluate the compliance of Section 5(6) of the Saeima Election Law with the Satversme. The applicant indicated to the Constitutional Court that the valid Saeima Election Law prevents him from applying as a candidate Member. Having evaluated the norms of the law, I gave my opinion that they still comply with the Satversme. I will continue with the thematic approach. Of course, the area of children's rights is the first. As an Ombudsman, I also perform the role of the Ombudsman for Children, and the Ombudsman’s Office is a full member of the European Network of Children’s ombudsmen. In 2018, we actively promoted public awareness of children's rights and mechanisms to protect them, including through various conferences and discussions, as well as through various seminars and trainings. Children's rights have always been one of my priorities. Checks at institutions where children are present. Last year, unsubstantiated inspections were carried out in several institutions with children and significant irregularities were found in all. This is a serious signal that the monitoring mechanism is not working. For example, a test was carried out at the rehabilitation centre of the Jaunpiebalga Municipality Council Foundation “Solis Piebalgs”, where children dependent on psychoactive substances had to provide a social rehabilitation service. It has been found that the service is actually not being provided, that children live under inadequate conditions and that their rights are not being ensured. After the re-examination together with the Ministry of Welfare and the State Children's Rights Inspectorate, the Ministry decided to terminate the contract for the provision of the service, and from 1 August last year the service has been terminated. Another important test was carried out at the Ventspils region’s children’s house “Stikļi”. It has been found that children's rights to development are not guaranteed, medical and rehabilitation services are required for each individual needs, there is no objective to ensure that children's condition does not deteriorate, but the situation is accepted as it is, claiming that "they already are... “ It’s the mood of the employees. There are insufficient support staff, lack of social workers, lack of targeted team work, lack of communication between children and relatives, for which children have expressed real sorrow. It should be noted that there were young people living in this orphanage up to 23 years of age, but they were not provided with social guarantees and support. The “Glass” baby was closed last December. The themes on children's rights, which were resolved in 2018. In November 2016, I raised the issue of the country’s lack of a unified register of foster families at the press conference on the entry of babies into institutions. The Latvian National Inspectorate for the Protection of the Rights of the Child does not have access to information about potential families for a particular child by the barracks courts themselves, and the search for a foster family at the request of the orphanage court is carried out by the National Inspectorate for the Protection of the Rights of the Child. In September 2018, the rules for the adult family information system were adopted. Bournal courts will in future have direct access to the Family Information System. Although the information system has not yet been fully operational, a foundation for the operation of the register of foster families has been established. On the schedule of the national exams. After receiving the application of the 12th grade student, the question of the timetable of the national exams for secondary school students was raised in the Office's eye. It was found that the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers established the time of the examination 2017/2018. for the school year, some examinations were determined after each other without interruption of any day. I believe that it is extremely important to ensure an appropriate break between examinations so that students have the opportunity to rest. This would enable them to prepare for the exams in the best possible way and create as much congestion and stress as possible. Recommendations were sent to the Ministry of Education and Science with a request to further provide sufficient time intervals between examinations by creating examination schedules. My recommendation was taken into account when drafting and adopting the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which determine the time of the examination 2018.2019. the school year. Issues on children's rights updated in 2018. The penalties imposed on children under the care of a non-family for administrative offences and the obligation to pay for them. The examination file concluded that the legal framework for the payment and recovery of fines for children in the care of the outside family was not sufficiently clear. This leads to unequal treatment of children in custody, a foster family and a childcare facility. Section 299(2) of Latvian Administrative Violations Code states: “If a person aged between fourteen and eighteen has no independent earnings, the fine shall be recovered from the parents or persons who replace them.” There is no uniform view and practice of application of laws and regulations in cases where a fine is imposed on a child placed in a foster family - whether the fine is to be paid to the foster family or orphan court as the legal representative of the child. This situation does not encourage the children’s desire to take up their families with addiction and behavioral problems, and it reduces their chances of getting to their families. For children in childcare facilities only in certain cases a child care institution shall pay a fine. In the case of children placed in childcare facilities, it can be concluded from the legal framework that the fine should be borne by the head of the care establishment who is responsible for the child’s guardian’s duties. Non-payment of a fine, allowing recovery from the child after reaching adulthood, is contrary to regulatory regulation and to the interests of the child, because recovery is aimed at the funds without which it is impossible to start an independent life. In order to prevent the findings, the Ministry of Welfare is invited to improve the regulatory framework. The Ministry of Justice is invited to develop guidelines for the employees of the municipal police and municipal administrative commissions on application of Section 12.1 of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code in practice according to the intended purpose, as well as to ensure that sworn bailiffs seek recovery against legal representatives, avoiding accumulation of debt and recovery thereof after reaching the child's age. Social guarantees after adulthood and the end of extra-family care. For a long time now, we have been focusing on issues relating to the protection of the rights of orphans and children without parental care in the country. A number of improvements have been made to this issue on a regular basis. In particular, the number of children in childcare facilities is gradually decreasing, the financing of non-family care services has been revised, and specialised families have been introduced. The Ministry of Welfare has implemented the idea of restricting foreign adoption from the guardian’s family and foster family. This is an established goal that the country must pursue. In order to achieve this, it is first necessary to make preparations - for a child to have a decent life after the 18th of birth when he or she ends his or her family, guardian or orphanage. It is about paying housing, learning and securing their basic needs up to the start of an independent life. The state has set a minimum level of assistance that is not sufficient for starting an independent life - for example, a monthly allowance of 64 euros per month if you are studying. In my opinion, honourable Members are absurd, cynical. However, each municipality is entitled to grant more aid. In 2018, I initiated a test case: I carried out a survey of the situation by interviewing all 119 municipalities - what assistance they offer to a young person after their adulthood, what housing is shown to cover, how much public payments, how much benefit is granted and what assistance they still provide. The conclusion is harsh: with the support of the state and municipality it can survive, but it is not possible to start a self-employed, development-oriented life. We even learned about the mooring - a municipality offered housing compensation of EUR 100 a year. Verification case on the operation of the information system for minors. The information system for supporting minors is a national information system aimed at promoting effective inter-institutional cooperation with a view to providing assistance to the child as soon as possible. The system is designed to help a child who needs support and who has reached the attention of the institutions, for example, as a child without parental care, as a victim, as a searcher, as a recipient of social services, as a offender and so on. A card is opened to the child in the system. The card can be opened by orphan court, social service, state police and municipal police. Each institution involved sees what decisions have been taken and what assistance has been given. The purpose of the examination case was to clarify the reasons for the incomplete use of the system and to achieve the full use of the system, because the lack of institutional cooperation is a problem of a long duration that hinders the enforcement of children's rights. The topics to be updated this year in the area of children's rights. Teaching rights or, in other words, exercising rights. Rights must be taught in primary school because primary education is compulsory. The standard of education provides for high requirements, but a single hour of social knowledge per week, little time for thematic rights and no implementation of the standard. Last year, when organising a conference on electoral practice, it was a great surprise for both teachers and law experts that, at the end of the 9th class, the state standard of education in social knowledge is similar to that of lawyers, completing about 2nd degree at the university. If it were put into practice, we could not talk about teaching rights at school. Article 172.2 of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code “Physical and Emotional Violence Against Children” and Article 174 of the Criminal Law “Criminalty and Violence Against Minority” exclusion and application problems. In practice, criminal liability does not apply if the child has no consequences, i.e. bruising, fractures, personal injury. A psychological offence shall not be regarded as an offence. The consequences of an administrative infringement in proceedings are not assessed at all. Thus, if a case has been opened in administrative infringement proceedings, it is not assessed whether a criminal offence has occurred. Thus, when initiating administrative infringement proceedings, even if there are indications that a criminal offence against a child has been committed, the possibility of starting criminal proceedings is not considered. Possible risks of human trafficking in boarding schools. It is a topical subject, as international institutions also point to it. Civil and political rights. Preventive mechanism: In March 2018, the Ombudsman's Office set up the Prevention Division. I should like to thank the government and the parliament, which supported the provision of additional funds for the establishment of this structure. The main task of the prevention section is to carry out regular, preventive visits to places where persons have or might have limited freedom, with the aim of preventing the risks of ill-treatment, including torture, cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. In 2017, the Government and Parliament accepted the establishment of a preventive mechanism within the existing law enforcement authority before deciding to start ratification of the Additional Protocol to the UN Convention against Torture and other forms of cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, while at the same time providing additional financial means. I am very pleased with such a government and parliamentary decision, because this step has shown the public in Latvia that it cares about the lives of people who, for various reasons, are located in institutions where their freedom is, or might be, restricted. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, out of the 28 Member States of the European Union, Latvia has now remained the only one who has neither signed nor ratified the Additional Protocol. In turn, only three Member States of the European Union have signed but have not yet ratified it. And it's Slovakia, Ireland and Belgium. At the moment, on the overall background - not only in the European Union, but also globally - I believe that we are unique. We are uniquely aware that, although the Additional Protocol has not been ratified, the country has already embedd itself with its national preventive mechanism, or a regular system of visits, which, in my view, plays an important role. Because the state can at least take care of those who, for various reasons, are left alone and are no longer able to protect themselves. Usually the opposite is happening, that is to say, compared to other countries: first the ratification of the Additional Protocol takes place, and only then the state is beginning to think about how to introduce the new function. The state of Latvia has demonstrated its responsibility. I therefore believe that the next logical step should be taken in 2019: the ratification of the Additional Protocol should be decided. Going back to the part of the Prevention: I believe that, in this short period of time - within 10 months - with the involvement of the part of the Prevention, we have managed to make an important work much more active by carrying out verification visits. Many systematic aspects of the problems were identified, which were and depend not only on the management of the institutions but also on state involvement. There was an opportunity to gather good practice on various issues. There was also an opportunity to discuss with practitioners many questions that allowed them to better understand different practices. Before the creation of the preventive part, by launching the so-called national preventive mechanism, we carried out inspections or various investigations in the office, so to speak, proactively, actively or in response to various complaints, whereas we have now started to do this work preventively, using an internationally recognised methodology - so we are trying to prevent the violation of human rights before it is allowed. In 2018, 30 visits were made, including six children's psychiatric care institutions, nine children's houses, where children's right to opinion was assessed in person, as well as nine long-term social care institutions, including both old people's homes and state social care centres. A very painful topic is the provision of children's human rights in psychiatric treatment institutions. There is, with irony, a lack of respect for the human rights of children. I have already mentioned the situation with regard to the enforcement of children's rights in psychiatric hospitals. It is also very much talked about, reflected in the mass media. Two psychiatric treatment facilities should be highlighted with regret. ‘ In the child psychological hospital Ainaži, serious violations of children’s rights were found in almost all areas of children’s rights. It is important to stress that treatment as such was not provided there. This is also recognised by the Health Inspectorate, as well as by the Latvian Psychiatric Association. The findings of the visit indicated possible criminal offences, therefore the information obtained during the visit was forwarded to the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Latvia. Serious infringements related to the use of medicines for children were also found in the “Sea Hospital”, which was informed by the Health Inspectorate and the Ministry of Health. The annual report summarises the violations of children's rights detected during visits, as well as examples of good practice. I will highlight just a few of them. It is very convenient to get acquainted with these violations on the last pages of my report; there are tables - the highlights - absolutely all the information that we have found. But now for some of them. Children are often hospitalised from other institutions, such as children's homes and boarding schools, due to the resulting conflict between the child and staff, when the child's behaviour becomes uncontrolled. Medical institutions often justify the hospitalization of children with social indications, and I stress the social indications. Also, since there are very limited outpatient services in Latvia for adolescents with different types of addictions, children with dependence are hospitalized in psycho-medical institutions that do not intend to provide this type of assistance. It has been found that children with behavioural disorders are scheduled to be hospitalized on the basis of knocking, theft and violence against peers. However, I believe that in the case of behavioural disorders, assistance should be provided in the environment in which these disorders occur every day, avoiding as far as possible hospitalisation. Some treatment facilities have shown that older and non-inferior medicinal products are being administered to children, as well as children exposed to high polypharmaceuticals and inappropriate dose regularisation. Medical institutions that found the highest degree of non-compliance of prescribed medicines with children were either not treated by a child psychiatrist or were very rare, e.g. once a week for a few hours, while accepting outpatients from the outside. In institutions with limited rehabilitation measures, prescriptions were more often used as a treatment for children. Of course, this has led to regular physical fixations in some situations, for children need to be comforted if they do not have any meaningful lessons. The worrying fact is that the lack of uniform clinical guidelines and standards makes the work of the controlling authorities - in the particular situation of Health Inspectorate - almost impossible, which the Ombudsman himself drew attention to during the 2018 conference. It is also appropriate to mention the statement by Dr. Steel, the President of the Latvian Association of Psychiatry, that no guidelines, model or methodology have been developed in our country for placing children in a psychiatric institution, so they get on high-speed train from A to B. It's a metaphor. In other words, in a crisis situation, the child is not being treated outpatiently or in other ways when dealing with behavioural abnormalities and problems, but is simply being sent to a psycho-medical institution instead of being employed by social educators, psychologists, child psychotherapist and so on. Provision of the human rights of children in childcare facilities or in orphanages. Visiting orphanages, attention was paid to ensuring children's rights to opinion and participation. Thus, a general view of the good examples of Latvian childcare centres in establishing children's views and promoting participation has been obtained, as well as of visiting several of them, systematic shortcomings of institutions have been seen, which can be seen in a little more detail in the annual report. Let me mention a few. In some care institutions children are not allowed to set up their own rooms, staff enter their private rooms without the permission of the children and place their private belongings in order to arrange them at their own discretion, close the children’s private room doors and issue keys at the children’s request. In some childcare facilities children are not allowed to participate in the purchase of clothing, hygiene or other personal goods - they are purchased by way of purchase and distributed to children. Children have no skills in how to prepare their own food (including by selecting and purchasing appropriate products) because the food is prepared centrally in an institution, just as it would happen in an educational or medical institution. These obstacles, imposed by the managers and employees of childcare facilities, do not promote children's independence but, on the contrary, hinder it. As a result, children who leave the institution are unable to implement very important self-care skills. I believe that the institutional environment for the promotion of children's participation is a problem: a full understanding of children's views and the involvement of children can only be achieved by growing up in the family. As long as national childcare facilities continue to operate, however, everyone needs to invest all possible resources in order for the institution to implement services that are as close as possible to the family environment. Ensuring human rights in old people's homes and state social care centres, or long-term social care institutions. When preparing this chapter with our colleagues, we had the idea of inviting the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs to an unsubscribed visit to one of these groups. What you'll see there, I think you'll dance. During the visits a number of identical regulatory acts and human rights standards were found in all the institutions visited. Therefore, in order to make efficient use of resources, the planned visits to these authorities were interrupted and all observations and recommendations were summarised in the report. The report was sent to the Ministry of Welfare and all state social care centres in order to allow institutions to prevent possible violations independently and to improve the quality of services provided by institutions, as well as respect for client rights. Because the aim is not to punish specific institutions, but to help improve the situation. In many cases, of course, institutions are responsive and take into account our recommendations, but often this is due to a lack of resources, a lack of human capacity and perhaps even a lack of competence. In any case, many of the necessary improvements in these institutions do not require significant financial resources, but only a little concern and attention from the management and staff of the institution, for example, from the provision of basic things, such as ventilation of premises, access to drinking water, walking outdoors, ensuring hygiene requirements (e.g. getting their clothes and underwear after washing), providing a sense of comfort in rooms. The most relevant topics in the area of civil and political rights. Problematic aspects in pre-trial criminal proceedings. Within the framework of my functions, in response to applications, I continue to inform persons about their rights in pre-trial criminal proceedings. Unfortunately, it is often necessary to find that persons turn to me about possible offences in pre-trial criminal proceedings only when the time limit for decisions taken in criminal proceedings has already been delayed and the issue indicated by the person can no longer be effectively addressed. In certain cases, I have found the Office of Internal Security ineffective, for example, for a long time, even for four months, without taking any action to clarify the circumstances indicated in the application, which led to the fact that the verification was not carried out with due care. I also continue to receive complaints about lengthy pre-trial criminal proceedings both from suspects and victims. In several cases, supervising prosecutors have found that these criminal proceedings are unduly delayed by giving their instructions. Currently, two inspection cases are being initiated, which will investigate possible systemic deficiencies in the effectiveness of cooperation between the State Police and Public Prosecutor’s Office. During the reporting period, I continued to receive applications from persons and their legal aid providers (judges) for possible violations of fundamental rights. Often, the assessment and enforcement of the issues raised in the submissions made by providers of legal aid was not my competence. The situation in which a sworn lawyer prepares a document without critically assessing its content, the competence of claims and the addressee, in my view, is critical in the context of the quality of the legal assistance provided to the client. Taking into account the growing role of sworn lawyers in ensuring the rights of persons, I appeal to the Council of Sworn Advocates of Latvia to take the necessary measures to ensure that every person is guaranteed the right to qualitative legal assistance guaranteed in Article 92 of the Satversme. In 2018, I must admit that I was particularly concerned about the understanding of the law enforcement aspects of the public prosecutor's office, which in some cases cast doubt on the efficiency and availability of the public prosecutor's office as a mechanism for the protection of rights in the context of Article 13 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Moreover, in one examination case it had to be concluded that the prosecutor's office did not understand and respect the judgement of the Constitutional Court, its binding force and direct applicability. I would like to emphasise that such cases do not promote trust in the prosecutor's office or justice as a whole, that it ensures the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of individuals. For a more accurate picture, two situations will be mentioned. I think it is extremely important to mention these situations. Situation one. On the basis of an application by a private person, I examined the examination case on the removal of the property belonging to the applicant in the administrative infringement case and effective protection of the rights, using the right to prevent the restriction of my property rights. In the case under examination, it was concluded that the applicant was involved in the conduct of the proceedings without an appropriate determination of the procedural status, which, moreover, was not established in the case almost eight months after its initiation. The above mentioned circumstances clearly pointed to serious violations of procedural legal provisions permitted in the administrative infringement case and violation of the rights guaranteed by Article 105 of the Satversme of the Applicant, because the restriction of the applicant’s right to property was carried out without respecting her procedural right to defence. I also assessed the effectiveness of the law enforcement mechanism established by the state in this situation, finding that the complainant’s complaint was not assessed by any of the departments of the prosecutor’s office, thus declaring the investigation of the prosecutor’s office ineffective. In the part concerning the failure to carry out due diligence, I contacted the Prosecutor General, asking to ensure that after receiving information on possible significant violations of material or procedural legal provisions, all necessary actions will be taken to protect the rights of persons, thus guaranteeing the prosecutor’s office as an effective and accessible means of redress. However, the prosecutor's office replied that without a specific reference to the provision of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code, which I believe would be violated, the reference to Article 105 of the Satversme and Article 13 of the European Convention on Human Rights should be considered as a declaration. In the light of the above, it was noted that the actions of the prosecutor’s offices were legitimate and well founded. Second situation. I also examined on the basis of an application by a private person the examination case on the actions of the prosecutor’s office in an application for renewal of proceedings on criminally acquired property in criminal proceedings due to newly identified circumstances. In the specific case, the applicant’s application was based on the judgment of 11 October 2017 of the Constitutional Court in the case No. 2017-10-01, where a judgment was given against the applicant granting it the right to prevent a breach of its fundamental rights by submitting an application for new circumstances to a court of general jurisdiction. At first in the examination case I found that the actions of the prosecutor’s office in the examination of this issue were formal and superficial, without going into the very essence of the issue and in the circumstances indicated by the applicant regarding the generalizing force and direct applicability of the judgment of the Constitutional Court. I therefore addressed the Prosecutor General requesting to take all necessary steps to ensure the protection of the rights provided for in the judgment of the Constitutional Court of the applicant, giving a full and effective assessment of the application submitted and adoption of the decision. After sending the letter, the prosecutor’s office began to re-examine, after which a decision was taken to refer the applicant’s application to the Supreme Court. Thus, the circumstances underlying the initiation of the examination case, which indicated an infringement of Article 92 of the Satversme and Article 13 of the European Convention on Human Rights, were eliminated. Right to a fair trial. The respect for the rights of persons with mental disabilities was consistently addressed in this reporting period, as it is known to be one of the groups of vulnerable persons. I have pointed out in the report, and I would like to highlight today, issues such as access to quality and effective legal assistance for these people so that they can enforce their rights in the event of various infringements. The issue of proper training of employees of various state and municipal institutions to work with people with mental disorders remains important. It is often the lack of knowledge and prevailing prejudices or stereotypes that can lead to unjustified restrictions on these people's rights. At the same time, it should be noted that during the reporting period it was repeatedly concluded: in the courts, when examining cases concerning the imposition of medical measures, there are significant problems from the human rights point of view, for example, regarding the participation of a person in court hearings. There are identified shortcomings on the part of the users of legal norms and there is a need for improvement of norms; I will continue to work on it this year as well. This year, too, people's applications for long time limits for legal proceedings have come to my attention. There are cases in which people express displeasure with decisions of judges, which deprive a person of the right to oral procedure, namely that the case is dealt with only in written proceedings. During this reporting period, I have assessed the issues concerning the legislative initiatives, which have focused mainly on ensuring the efficiency of judicial work in recent years, but overall, in my view, the right to a fair trial has been reduced by the possibility of appealing, the need for motivation for decisions. As an example, the procedure for dealing with cases of administrative offences which, in certain aspects, was found to be incompatible with Article 92 of the Satversme, should also be indicated by the Constitutional Court in the case No. 2017-16-01 It should be noted that the case in question is crystallising other problems related to the development of fundamental amendments to the law and progress in the Saeima without proper discussion and justification. There are often situations where, in the course of the examination of a draft law, a number of proposals are submitted between readings which have a significant impact on the human rights of individuals, but no justification or annotation of the particular norm or draft law is found in the draft law. When a particular legal norm has entered into force, there is no possibility to verify the will and purpose of the legislator in adopting the norm. Right to freedom of expression. During the reporting period, I continued to actively address the issue of identifying and limiting the spread of hate speech in the internet environment. It should be noted that citizens' activity has increased, reporting to the Ombudsman about the widespread use of hate speech in the internet. Taking into account that it is in the public interest to carefully and materially assess any situation related to a possible hate speech in the internet environment, continuing the practice established in 2016 and 2017, I also reported to the Prosecutor General's Office and the Security Police during the reporting period on possible criminal offences, asking to initiate criminal proceedings for a possible criminal offence for which responsibility is provided for in Articles 78 or 150 of the Criminal Law. It is important to note here that even more responsibility should lie with the administration of Internet news portals so that anonymous comments can be monitored more actively and comments deleted, which may lead to distrust or hatred for a particular group in society. Right to privacy. In 2018, when assessing Latvia's readiness to apply the General Data Protection Regulation, we carried out two surveys. An Internet SKDS survey was conducted, where only 17.4 percent of the population said that they were aware of how the regulation would affect their daily lives. Journalists were also interviewed. Seventy-three percent of the journalists surveyed did not feel aware of the data requirements of the data regulation. Prisoners' rights. Every year, the Ombudsman’s Office receives a large number of applications from prisoners. Some 600 applications were received from prison last year. Most complaints continue to be received on issues of a different nature related to practical security of detention or execution. These include the exercise of the rights and obligations of prisoners in Latvian prisons, such as practical provision of daily needs, right to communication with relatives, transfer to another prison or other cameras within one prison for various reasons. Complaints requiring further examination shall be forwarded to the Prison Authority for consideration. It should be noted that the number of prisoners has decreased significantly in recent years, which has led the country to prevent overpopulation in prisons. As a very positive thing, the Detaining Centre in Olaines prison, which was built in 2016, has been set up to ensure the full involvement of drug-dependent and psychotropic persons in resocialisation activities. However, there are still a number of unresolved issues, such as the hierarchy of prisoners and the failure to provide full dentistry services to those prisoners who are not able to pay for them themselves. Because the state only pays for tooth extraction, not for correction. I also do not understand the continuing issue of building a new prison, because the old prison infrastructure cannot provide a meaningful set of resocialisation measures in line with today, the 21st century. Old infrastructure simply cannot provide this. For civic participation. In 2018, I would definitely like to highlight in my work all the activities aimed at increasing the participation of the new generation of civil participation in elections or, in other words, the practice of elections. International research unfortunately shows that there is not enough time devoted to the acquisition of civic participation in Latvia as part of the education system. Therefore, the first steps were taken last year to strengthen civic competence, namely an intensive dialogue with educators in all regions of Latvia, offering local universities and schools to listen to a lecture cycle on the foundations of the state system and electoral practice. Work on this topic will continue this year at the European Parliament elections and will continue until the municipal elections in 2021, including more intensive work with schools, pupils and teachers. The rights of foreign nationals, the status and rights of asylum seekers and beneficiaries of international protection. The last decade has marked the elements of a number of armed conflicts on a global scale; this has naturally led to the flow of asylum seekers, which has had the greatest impact on the European Union and has been the basis for all the discussions both at international level and at national level. The Syrian civil war and the reception of several hundred asylum seekers have also affected Latvia, and my most important message at this point will be the following: the problems identified by the Ombudsman in his 2011 study, where a few dozen persons from Afghanistan received alternative status were interviewed, by 2018, have not resulted in a long-term national vision and solutions to the national approach to immigration and integration issues. For a long time at national level, this group cannot find a solution to the issue of housing: municipalities lack free apartments, while in the free market access to housing there is discrimination in this group, as well as the beneficiaries are unable to cover rent and public utility fees in the existing amount of benefits in the free market. In other words, benefits are significantly lower than rental or rental prices in reality. Forced return monitoring. In 2018, the functions set out in Article 50 of the Immigration Law - forced return observation - continued. During the reporting period 184 decisions on forced expulsion of foreigners were received. The survey was carried out on 30 aliens to be forced to be expelled, as well as the Ombudsman’s observer or the Ombudsman’s staff as observers participated in the actual expulsion operations. One such was the expulsion operation to the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. It should also be noted that in 2018, the observers of the Ombudsman’s Office or the staff of the Ombudsman’s Office participated as observers in two return operations organised by the Federal Republic of Germany and coordinated by Frontex to Zambia, Macedonia and Serbia. In addition, the Ombudsman’s Office’s specialists are also reserve instructors for Frontex activities. Social, economic and cultural rights. Social exclusion. According to the Ombudsman's Strategy 2017-2021, the issue of reducing poverty and social exclusion has continued to be a topical issue during the reporting period. I have already indicated in advance that the social security system established in Latvia and the minimum amounts of social support are below the minimum or, in human language, below every criticism, because they do not ensure a decent life. The amounts of benefits are not based on calculation and have largely not been revised for several years, for example, the social security benefit has remained in 2005 and the poverty threshold at 2011 levels. The fact that the situation is not satisfactory has already been acknowledged by the government in the 2013 concept of a minimum income level. Unfortunately, there are no significant improvements over five years. The implementation of the concept was postponed from one year to the next on the basis of insufficient budgetary resources. The concept has now been replaced by a new document "A plan for improving the system of minimum income support for 2019-2020 (project)", which has now been left without progress by the new government in 2019. Rights of persons with disabilities. When implementing the monitoring obligation laid down in the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, I have looked at both the verification of matters affecting persons with disabilities, carried out studies and monitoring of the exercise of the rights of persons with disabilities in practice, as well as the implementation of information campaigns and other activities. During the reporting period, the question of the right to live in a society which involves deinstitutionalisation and, above all, the development of social services based on society, was raised as a leading issue. The lack of human resources, the absence of methodologies for dealing with clients with mental disabilities, the lack of access to housing and the lack of inter-institutional cooperation are significant obstacles to the process of deinstitutionalisation. There is also good news. A positive trend is that the deinstitutionalisation plan has led to the need to see people with mental disabilities living in society and to identify their needs. In order to improve the situation, there is a need for an intensified information campaign, for attracting specialists and for promoting inclusive education. In order to achieve effective deinstitutionalisation, the social system must be supported and strengthened not only at municipal level, but also at national level. The role of the legislator is to support the implementation of initiatives that promote the right of a person to live in society. In the context of this process, it is easy to criticise, but it is extremely important to work on changing public attitudes and to promote good practices. Noting and evaluating the contribution to the promotion of the rights and interests of people with disabilities, for the fourth year in a row a national conference was organised in cooperation with the Aperons association and the National Library of Latvia. At the end of the conference, the annual prize for people with disabilities and the award of good practices were held. Right to housing. During the reporting period, updating information on the provision of assistance to local governments in solving housing issues, it is concluded that during the four-year period the situation has improved and 7215 persons (family) were present in apartment rows in local governments. Overall, there is a positive trend, as the number of apartments in this period has decreased by 3043 persons (family). I very much hope that they have not left, that they have just found solutions. I note that the OECD Economic Report on Latvia published in September 2017 shows that Latvia's public expenditure on social housing and housing benefits for low-income households are among the lowest in OECD countries. Housing benefits for low-income persons when paying for rent in the private sector will not be effective until the private housing market is properly developed. Thus, in the near future, a sufficient amount of social housing would be needed as a solution to improve access to low-income households. Local governments, when exercising one of their functions - to provide assistance to residents in solving the issues of the apartment - must also provide for funds for development of the residential foundation within the annual budget, especially by promoting access to social apartments for vulnerable groups of persons. As examples of good practice, I particularly want to highlight Riga, Valmiera and Cesis, where social apartments or support for very low income households are provided. Right to work. On amendments to the Labour Law. During the reporting period, I was actively involved in discussing amendments to the Labour Law, as they limited workers' rights and interests in several respects. I object to the proposal of the Ministry of Welfare that a long-term sick trade union member may be dismissed without the trade union's consent. Section 101, first paragraph, points 7 and 11 of the Labour Act concern the health status of employees. Sometimes the state of health may be linked to disability. In recent times, employers have quite often expressed in the mass media about the inability to express their contracts to disabled workers, as well as their unwillingness to employ people with health problems. Therefore, I invited the legislator to consider the above intention carefully so that there would be no risk of violation of the prohibition of discrimination both within the scope of Article 91 of the Satversme and the Labour Law, however, the legislator did not take my argument into account. I also object to the proposal of the Ministry of Welfare that the employer will no longer be obliged to pay the severance grant to an employee who has applied for work for reasons of fairness and morality. The proposed amendments provided that the employer agreed to pay the severance grant only if the reason indicated by the employee for the employee’s statement was justified. The obligation to bring an action before the court is transferred from the employer to the employee, who is the weaker party, although in essence the employer has objections to the payment of the severance grant. I draw attention to the fact that the wording of the draft law does not provide information on the practical reality of the cases in which the employer would agree that the employee’s statement is justified and would accordingly agree to the payment of the severance grant. Consequently, in practice, this provision could become declaratory and would not be applied, especially in view of the sensitive circumstances of termination of employment established by this paragraph. So we're talking about justice. I draw attention to the fact that Section 100(5) of the Labour Law is more often affected by violations of prohibition of unjustified differential treatment (e.g. mobbing, bosing in cases of alarm actions). In such cases, there is the principle of reverse proof, which states: where an employee indicates circumstances which indicate unjustified differences of treatment, the burden of proof shall be transferred to the employer, who shall be obliged to prove that no such infringement has taken place. If the legislator determines only the employee’s right to bring an action before the court, this is contrary to the principle of reverse proof. On shortcomings in the mechanisms for the legal protection of workers. Within the framework of the inspection case, the shortcomings of the systemic nature in the work of the SRS, which affect the rights of the individual, have been identified. Namely, if the SRS applies to a person to participate in the protection of its subjective rights, for example, for the SRS to send information about the mandatory social insurance contributions of the employee to SSSA, because the employer has not deliberately done so and does not do so, SRS does not consider it as an application in the course of administrative procedure, although the law “On State Social Insurance” and Government Regulations SRS provide for such rights. A specific case. The new mother, for which the employer had not paid taxes, turned to the office. The SSAA had refused to pay social benefits. The application of this person was considered by the SRS to be a formal provision of information without, in essence, solving the existing problem situation. After my involvement and insistence on the need to act in this particular case the SRS made a tax charge and announced to the SSAA the taxes charged. However, I concluded that the SRS did not recognise in which cases, in relation to persons seeking to achieve the implementation of their rights with the involvement of SRS provided for in regulatory enactments, the SRS person's applications are examined by administrative procedure and in which cases the information provided by the person is only acceptable. In fact, in all cases the SRS should operate under the Administrative Procedure Law and act in accordance with Article 10 of the State Administration Law, i.e. in the interests of people and society. Payment for overtime work for medical persons. In April 2018, the Constitutional Court examined the case “On Compliance of Section 53.1(7) of the Law on Medicine with the First Sentence of Article 91 and Article 107 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia”, which was initiated on the basis of my application. I indicated that any work in excess of normal working time, i.e. , 40 hours per week, shall be regarded as overtime work and shall be entitled to appropriate reimbursement, in the same way as a premium of 100 per cent of the wage or additional paid rest period granted to other employees. In my opinion, the State did not provide adequate protection for medical persons, because overtime work for medical persons was not compensated equivalent to the remuneration of officials and employees of state and municipal institutions or the Labour Law. Thus, the contested norm restricted the right of medical persons to receive adequate remuneration for overtime work, therefore, I ask the Constitutional Court to recognise the norms of the Law on Medicine, which regulates the payment of remuneration of medical persons for work extended within the normal working time, as contrary to the first sentence of Article 91 and Article 107 of the Satversme. On 15 May of last year, the Constitutional Court delivered a judgment in a case by which the norms of this Law on Medicine were declared incompatible with the first sentence of Article 91 of the Satversme and invalid as from 1 January 2019. There is now an absurd situation. Medicals can receive overtime in the same way as any worker in any sector of the economy, but as far as is known, they are forced to work in a number of jobs, in several medical institutions, in order to provide much less worthy pay. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. G. Many: “Extra Riga medical sector is being destroyed!” ) How do I ask? ( Interessions: Thank you, too!) ) Yes, but the state has for a long time failed to provide sufficient solutions for the employees in the public medical sector, not to be enslaved or forced on a voluntary basis, but, above all, to be guaranteed (Dep. G. Many: “Rīdzinieki live better right now!” ) The right to a fair remuneration provided for in the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. Discrimination against workers in the public health sector is not allowed.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U35	Colleagues, we will continue the debate after hearing the Ombudsman's report!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U36	Right... ( Internouncing call.) Right to property. On discriminatory legal provision in the binding regulations of Riga City Council. In the context of the examination case, I found that Riga City Municipality implements different treatment of housing owners depending on the citizenship of the declared person, applying tax relief to Latvian citizens and non-citizens, but not granting such relief if the property is declared by a citizen of another European Union Member State. The Constitutional Court held that these norms do not comply with Article 91 of the Satversme and they do not apply from the day of publication of the judgment. For proportionality of the amount of the national tax by strengthening ownership rights for persons in actual household. During the reporting period, I examined the examination case on proportionality in establishing the State fee by strengthening property rights for persons in the actual household. I indicated that it was not possible to achieve the principle of legal equality by way of interpretation, which is also the result of the case law of the courts; there was a need for state action, which is reflected in the positive duty of the State, namely the recognition and protection of two persons who consider themselves to be a family or a common household. It should be noted, however, that the development of specific regulations and the establishment of a policy solution are not aimed at undermining the institution of marriage. On 15 December 2005, the Saeima adopted an amendment to Article 110 of the Satversme, which entered into force on 17 January 2006 and stated that the State is protecting and supporting marriage - union between a man and a woman. Thus, the institution of marriage at national level is constitutionally strengthened and protected, which cannot be attributed to such a family form, because the relevant Constitutional Norm states clearly and unequivocally that the state protects the marriage, which is the union between a man and a woman, the family, the children who have remained without parental care, and so on. It follows that it is the responsibility of the State to provide a legal framework for the recognition of different forms of families or households. Good governance. Good governance in public administration and civil service relations with officials and staff. In 2018, as in 2017, I repeatedly encountered systemic deficiencies in civil service matters. In particular, the Ministry of Health and certain institutions under its authority are noted. First of all, it is important to emphasise that the negotiations with the representatives of this area result in: these problems are historical and as a bad tradition. In this area, political influence, rather than the rule of law, has a significant role to play and does not satisfy the workforce. Secondly, the existence of systemic bosking and mobbing is evident over a longer period of time. I have also received applications about unfair working conditions or incomprehensible actions of SRS and State Police Administration. This shows that there is still significant work to be done to ensure that the principle of good governance is applied throughout public administration. I have identified significant problems in the area of good governance in the context of the complaint that the Ministry of Education and Science carried out formal inspections of the State Service of Quality of Education on the basis of reasoned alarms raised by the applicant. In essence, it referred to the opinion of the State Service for Quality of Education and did not self-convinced about possible violations of the rule of law. In addition to other circumstances, I found that officials of different status, namely officials and employees, are employed in the State Education Quality Service with the same position. Tell me... I've got five minutes more.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U37	It's safe! We agreed that the Ombudsman was finalising the report and that we were only going on a break.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U38	Thank you. literally five to ten minutes. (Laughter) Noise in the hall. Impressions: “Of course! Of course!’ ; “The Court of Justice!” ) In my opinion, from Latvia...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U39	Mr. Ombudsman, continue the report. We listen very carefully to you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U40	In my view, from the point of view of the Latvian state administration system, it is not possible to find the situation that has developed in the quality state service of education with maintaining the status of employees for most of the employees, although they are in essence in line with the status of official. This situation poses a number of risks. Firstly, it is about legal risks: the situation is not in line with the Civil Service Law. Secondly, there is a risk of a lack of transparency and self-independence: the appointment of an official must be subject to an open tender, and there is no recruitment. This situation prevents any other professional from qualifying for a post in public administration through an open and fair competition. In this respect, a striking negative example is the appointment of the Director of the Quality Assessment Department of the State Education Quality Service as an employee, although the status of this post is an official. The State Chancellery has accepted such action as admissible. Thirdly, we need to talk about the conceptual idea of why there is a distinction between the status of an official and that of an employee at all. It is even more unacceptable that, knowing of such practices, the authorities responsible have been doing nothing to change it for years. On the contrary, they simply support this normal order. Tax Reform Study In 2018, the Ombudsman's Office, in cooperation with the researchers of the University of Latvia, has carried out a study of the new tax reform on the effectiveness of the application of the unlimited minimum, relief for dependants and eligible expenses. The study has a series of conclusions, the study is about 200 pages, available on our website as well, and the conclusions are... the proposals are on page 20. Let me just mention a few. Firstly, in fact, tax reform does not reduce inequalities, as has been said. Secondly, the introduction of a predictable non-deductible minimum system for SRS is too complex and unfriendly to the taxpayer mainly because it anticipates the risk of debt formation. Already in the office, we are being deeply concerned about the indignation of the population. This must be changed, and immediately. Thirdly, the study highlighted the fact that there is a part of the taxpayer who cannot benefit from personal income tax relief - the unlimited minimum, the allowance for dependants and the eligible expenditure. The reason is insufficient income, both in a month and a year. So we are talking about poverty. Significantly, such persons are mostly dependants. It is clear that in the long term a mechanism should be sought to compensate for, for example, the benefits that parents have not obtained in the form of relief. Fourthly, the study also highlighted that the SRS rightly seeks to improve the administration of eligible expenditure, but it has not been properly heard by the Ministry of Finance. There are 13 letters in our study that we can refer to. Importantly, it has been found that the administration of personal income tax really requires large amounts of money. In the near future, we need to think about how to optimise the administration in question. There are solutions, but there must be a commitment to take the relevant decisions. The law of municipal action or the case of Jurmala Cemetery. It is literally a judgment of the Constitutional Court of the previous two weeks in relation to my application to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court recognised that the municipality may not charge rent for the use of a grave site. This information can be consulted more fully in my annual report. This was a 34-page essay on the progress made in 2018. As I said, much has been done and much remains to be done. I call for all details to be examined in the full version of the report. It's like a spy for answers to questions that hurt the public most. We are your partners and allies, and only working together and working together will help us to ensure that the painful issues are reduced and the words “the sustainable future of Latvia” or “the state of legal and social responsibility” are not just words, but already reality. Let us not forget that we all work together to create a system that is to function as a well-oiled one, not to fight the rust. The main thing - remember the user of the system and his needs! Because all of this will always be based on the people of Latvia. Finally, I would also like to thank my office colleagues and the collective in particular, because we have managed to do a lot of good together. This is also apparent in the 2018 report and, of course, special thanks to my group, my pearls, for preparing this report. Thank you very much for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U41	Thank the Ombudsman Juris Jansons. Thank you to the staff of the Ombudsman's Office, who are also present and listening to the report today. Colleagues, it's time for a break. We will continue the debate on the Ombudsman's report after a break. Please call me! Please register the Members. Time for notification. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U42	The Group of Members for the promotion of cooperation with the Polish Parliament shall meet immediately after the break in the Yellow House.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U43	Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U44	Not registered: Aldis Blumbergs, Boriss Cilevičs, Kaspars Ģirgens, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Andrejs Klementjevs, Rihards Kols, Ieva Krapāne, Inese Voika, Ivars Zariņš. Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U45	Thank you. Interruption until 11.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U46	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can continue the Saeima sitting. On the agenda - Annual report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Latvia for 2018. Let us start a debate. On behalf of the Group of the National Alliance - Member Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U47	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! On behalf of the Group of the National Alliance, I thank the Ombudsman, Mr Janson, for his analytical and well-structured report. We would like to highlight in particular the Ombudsman's concern to prevent gross violations of human rights - discrimination against Latvians on the labour market, unjustified and out of the reach of Latvians requesting foreign languages, Russian in practice, mandatory knowledge. By requesting even if Russian is not to be used at the workplace. This violation of human rights gains additional immorality because it happens in the country's country of origin of the newly re-established nationalities of the Republic of Latvia. Latvian can be a state language only in our country, and here a Latvian has the right to speak freely. In 2018, the National Association submitted amendments to the Labour Law, which applied against discrimination against Latvians, imposing undue pressure on Latvians to use a foreign language. The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs awaited opinions of various institutions and organisations before taking its decision. The Ombudsman was the only one who saw discrimination in imposing a foreign language and, when analysing the prevention of discrimination, was based on the Constitution. Mr Jansons pointed out that the Constitution was based on considerations that the state language is Latvian, so the state must be based on the assumption that all citizens manage it. If the function of the state language is not actually ensured in the area of private law - labour relations - it is discrimination against the state population. In 2018, the Labour Law introduced a norm: “The employer does not have the right to request from the employee specific foreign language skills if its use is not included in the labour duties. Where the use of a foreign language is not required in the performance of his duties, the employer shall not have the right to prevent the employee from using the state language.’ The Ombudsman’s analysis of anti-discrimination gives an even broader scope for non-discrimination: ‘... the employer’s requirement to use a language other than a national language in an employment relationship where there is no overriding reason for this (e.g. contact mainly with foreign countries or with foreigners who are temporarily resident in a country) is discriminatory. A valid reason, however, is not that one part of the population with whom workers are in contact does not manage or want to use the national language. Such action is contrary to the meaning and purpose of Article 4 of the Satversme. It is the responsibility of the State to eliminate this discrimination.’ According to these opinions of the Ombudsman. 13 It should be discussed in the Saeima to introduce even more precise norms in the Labour Law that the employee, when performing his duties... he has the right to use only the state language in communication with Latvian citizens, non-citizens and recipients of residence permits. For many years now, the Ombudsman's concern for the equal rights of children to education has been welcomed. Much remains to be done in the area of inclusive education. Although several positive changes have taken place in Latvian education policy in recent years, it is still not sufficiently inclusive for orphans and people with functional disabilities. Life is life. Children who have the right to education have various functional disorders: one of the school curricula interferes with physical or psychological trauma, has sick children, others are more difficult to concentrate, and other children are hyperactive. It is the responsibility of society and the State to ensure the rights of all children. In the context of inclusive education, the material adequacy of schools, the adequacy of the number of teachers and their readiness should be assessed. Experts and NGOs representing children with specific problems should be involved in the integration of children with special needs and in the examination and decision-making of any related issue. As an expert...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U48	Mr Janson, the debate is over!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U49	I'm asking you to unite... additional time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U50	Are Members opposed to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U51	And as an expert in the case of this child with particular problems, the Ombudsman should first be involved. The name of the Ombudsman, emphasising children's rights, will continue to play a major role. Among other things, the name of the Ombudsman will weigh so that decision-makers understand that respect for children's rights requires financial contributions. It is clear from the discussions with the teachers that not the material benefits for parents are crucial for children with special needs to successfully learn teaching material and the class group included. Support is needed to help the teacher in dealing with children as a teacher's assistant. The Ombudsman's report rightly highlights the need for respect for children's rights in various life situations in ten pages. According to information received by the political group, even if children's rights are strengthened in legislation, there are cases of child abuse, but the municipality, orphan court or the police do not know what to do in such an unexpected situation. Especially in the case of emotional violence against a child. The Ombudsman's preventive interpretation of children's rights and their respect by the executing authority would be of great importance. The task of both the Ombudsman and the Saeima is to re-examine the laws governing the activities of orphan courts and to direct practical legislative initiatives to improve the activities of orphan courts, for example, to regulate precisely the replacement of the orphan court head if the manager does not properly perform his duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U52	Name of Member Dagmarai Beitnerei-Le Gallai on behalf of the New Conservative Group.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U53	Please combine with extra time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U54	Are Members opposed to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U55	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I, too, would like, on behalf of the New Conservative Group, to express my sincere thanks to your team for the work that has been done. This is truly invaluable. We studied the big book... It takes a lot of time to study... We read a short account. Your report reminded us once again of the many problems in society. Thank you for the work you are doing, because you are actually strengthening the recovery of the sense of justice for citizens, for every person who has had the courage to turn to you with his problem. That is exactly how we have brought the rule of law into our country. There are so many topics in your report. Thank you for addressing the issue of children's rights, Mr Ritvars Janson. It is very important that your report started this year with the question of children, because children are the future of our society. And I would like to express very great appreciation as a sociologist at all, because I read your report as a sociological study. This is a field study - invaluable to us in the work of the parliament, so that we do not get into... not live as a bubble and do not forget the very many painful problems that make us here and we need to work. I just want to invite you as representative of conservative ideology... You are doing a really big job: reminding you of the rights. And they have to be remembered, starting from the child's leg. Children need to know their rights so that they grow into responsible citizens. But at the same time I am calling you (Interface: “Opportunities!” )... and I am absolutely sure that you are doing this with your handful and your attitude to remind you of your responsibilities. Thank you for running ahead of my mind. Indeed, the register of orphan courts is necessary. And thanks for the sensitivity of the Prevention section, let's say, by looking at the field study... Thank you for your attention even to the dental condition of children and the carrying of glasses - such nuances. All this is very, very important. My little insight will be in such a rand, because our party certainly also joins... and the political group has repeatedly stressed that it is not important for us to build Latvia as a political state that always accepts it alone: to punish, to punish, to punish and to punish. It is very important for us to remember that the country is also raising its citizens. It was this aspect that was addressed in your report, and I understand that you are dealing with these issues with understanding and sensitivity, because the attitude of the state institutions is also a part of the country. I am absolutely sure that you, who are interventioning with your research and vision, are already changing the focus on the subject. We often use the term "power". It is very important to recall that the power of the State is represented by officials. It is a very important part of your report on the positions of staff and officials. This is very important to highlight these situations. But it should always be remembered that power also has such a cultural mark as power humility. And the fact that in Latvia in many positions of power exercised by officials, officials or even employees... that we together form a state. It is the attitude of these institutions towards their citizens, their problems, which form the basis of their country's membership. If a person, let us say, gets into a conflict situation, it's to a greater extent important... to law enforcement authorities... not to mention what you presented us in this report, focusing directly on children's institutions. And, of course, this report, it seems to me, a little bit and a little past, outlined in fact one of Latvia's biggest problems: the problem of poverty. The fact that, according to statistics, people actually... that as a percentage of people live below the minimum subsistence. We see that previous governments have not been able to overcome this problem. We have also received an inheritance of the problem and I would very much like to keep this issue at our heart. I wish there would be even more chapter in the next reports than exactly what, let us say... The KPV LV was also a question of how to eradicate poverty. This is one of our greatest settings. It is very sympathetic that you have addressed the question of freedom of expression. That is a very important thing. We also see here in Parliament that democracy is not used from time to time in quite honest ways. That's why it's very important for us in the information space section... and I know it wasn't your focus, but I see it as a problem. Let’s say, Lattelecom’s parcels are not politically friendly for the Latvian state. (Applause) And that is one aspect that we must see for national security also in this sense, but I understand that this is not your task. People will not complain about Lattelecom packages, because life needs to address more important and difficult issues. Therefore, I would like to emphasise even more the importance of looking at the issue of municipal apartment funds. While working in Jurmala City Council, I saw how lightly the municipalities treat this very important state resource, how it is managed and to what extent the state helps people to deal with this issue. That's not enough. Of the sailors, thank you very much for the victory in the case of the graves. If we collect taxes, I think we can no longer move. And, of course, my colleague Evita Hallie-Grosa certainly had a very important question about people with disabilities... Let's say, availability. This is very important: to keep this issue up to date so that we really bring it closer to a democratic society, which provides access to cultural events that are, to a greater extent, important, especially during the centenary. I would like to say once again that there was a lot of questions, and I thank you once again for your work.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U56	Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas, the combined debate is over. Thank you. Development/About! on behalf of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U57	Ladies and gentlemen, we thank the Ombudsman and his office for a very thorough report. Really big and impressive amount of work. Many problems have been identified and many solutions have been proposed. As regards the form, and given that this Saeima came with a new policy application and, in our view, a new policy also means a genuine and deep dialogue on the problems and effective communication, we propose that in the future, it may be possible for the Saeima to combine, in a shorter format, the Ombudsman's report with the Ministers' responses in the future. It would create a genuine dialogue with the executive, the ministries could, of course, prepare their reactions to the report, and then we would gain a much broader, deeper and more effective insight into what is already being done and what the ministries intend to do to respond to this report. Talking about content. Apart from the fact that the Ombudsman's report points to a lack of compliance with existing legislation which creates restrictions on citizens' rights or on their enforcement, the report also contains a number of references to cases where our legislation is incomplete and needs to be improved. We would like to draw attention to at least three such cases. Firstly, in the area of children's rights, there is still a heavy legacy of the Soviet system, especially in the treatment of children in care institutions and children with mental and developmental disorders. The report found that adequate education is not being provided to children who have been in mental care for a long time. Children in care institutions are not motivated and encouraged to acquire not only primary and vocational education but also higher education so that they can compete, develop their personality and dreams and achieve higher results, as do children who do not live in care institutions. In general, care institutions do not ensure children's rights to the views expressed in Article 12 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. We believe that it would be necessary, both in the legislative and policy areas, to strengthen the obligation for national and local authorities to ensure the right of all children to quality education, regardless of their state of health, and to ensure that children's rights to opinion are developed and supported (e.g. child-friendly procedures, how complaints and proposals can be submitted). This would require amendments to the Education Law and also to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child. Secondly, with regard to people with disabilities, including those with mental disabilities, the report states that, in order to ensure the right of every person with disabilities to live in society, care should be taken to ensure that every person who is able to provide support measures in society, that is to say, at home, at his or her own local authority, receives them, rather than bringing them into the institution. In this case, it may be necessary to clarify the liability of the state and local government in order to ensure people's right to an independent life, rather than the convenience of local governments or the employees of workplaces... that this is indeed the main consideration. It would therefore be necessary to amend the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance. Thirdly, there is still no regulation in Latvia regarding the registration or recognition of cohabitation for non-marital people. This is not just a symbolic issue. As the Ombudsman's report points out, this is a very practical issue. This concerns, for example, property and inheritance rights. Compared to couples who currently cannot register their cohabitation in Latvia, the amount of the state fee for the spouses is determined by the value of the inherited property, which is 60 times less... According to the Ombudsman, such a difference in treatment is unjustified and discriminatory. The report states that ‘[t]he State must act in a positive manner, i.e. to establish a legal framework for the recognition and protection of the actual co-habitation of two persons who consider themselves to be a family’. We share this conclusion of the Ombudsman and hope that this Saeima will already establish such a legal framework through the adoption of a community-based framework. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U58	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Greens/ Farmers' Union, Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U59	Hello, Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Mr. Ombudsman! First of all, we would also like to express great gratitude to the Ombudsman for his own work, as well as to the office staff and colleagues, for the opportunity to get to know practically all the works carried out throughout the year. This is an extremely detailed report, which contains a description of the situation in ten areas of activity of the Ombudsman. And this also leads to the conclusion that the amount of work is huge. Thank you for putting this all over. But what is also obvious when reading this report is that very many questions... There is still a lack of concrete assessment of the information provided by the Ombudsman himself, of its analysis and, in some cases, of proposals for action. Not always quantity is quality. And the question that we can ask ourselves is: what is the main element of this report? What are, for example, the three main things in which, in the Ombudsman's view, we should make the greatest progress as legislator? The truth is that, in the introduction by the Ombudsman, everyone feels his or her human rights situation and stresses as the most urgent and urgent problem. That cannot be denied. At the same time, in my opinion, it is important to look for solutions to one major problem completely, not perhaps for smaller improvements in many areas, without resolving a painful problem to the end. And sometimes, reading this report might lead to a misconception that there is really no one area that the Ombudsman has put on the table as a priority: “Yes, this is the thing I want to solve!” And then get caught like a bulldog and don't let go until the situation is substantially different. Well, one thing where the Ombudsman's vision was very short when he got to know this report is the issue of reducing inequality in Latvia. There are many pieces of mosaic, but this is an important topic that many people are talking about. We know for ourselves that the Gini coefficient is extremely high. And the European Commission's recent report also makes recommendations once again that measures should be taken to increase social assistance, complimenting also that, in the context of tax reform, however, there has been some reduction in inequality, but realising that it is not enough. The Ombudsman's vision of measures or social support, or better access to health services, education, guaranteed minimum income, which has been conceptually over a number of years ago, would be very valuable... It has been agreed that this should be implemented, but no decision has yet been taken today. These are the essential things that I would very much like to see in such a report. Otherwise, it is embarrassing to read a discussion or analysis about the fact that there are different prices in the sports club for services for men and women, if we know that there are serious problems that need to be resolved in substance. It seems to me that this report would certainly also fit in with the Ombudsman's summary of the recommendations made in previous years and their implementation - which have still been asked whether progress has been made, whether the Ombudsman's recommendations have been taken into account and the situation has been substantially improved. I assume that the Ombudsman's Office is keeping such records, but as Members of the Saeima, I think it would be very useful to have accurate information on progress. And finally. I agree with Mrs Golubeva that, in this debate in the Saeima, we would very much benefit if the Ombudsman's report were also listened to by the responsible ministers and gave his opinion and vision on how these recommendations and problems can be addressed. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U60	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U61	It is no secret that my opinion on Krišjānis Kariņš' Cabinet is not positive. But this morning, when Krišjānis Kariņš announced in one of the television programs that the question of teachers’ salaries could not be dealt with at the expense of development, he even surprised me. I think this is an opinion that summarises today's views of the elite of Latvian power about the place and importance of education in our society. Education is an impeding formality - it believes Krišjānis Kariņš, declaring that teachers' salaries cannot be dealt with at the expense of development. Education is a development-distorting formality, which should preferably be pushed down by local governments and which certainly does not have a priority in budgeting. In this government's view, education is not development. Dear Members, Such a view is obsceneness. Darkness to the highest extent. In my opinion, it is time to conclude that the decline in education constitutes a threat to the fundamental rights of our children to receive quality and competitive education. The unsubordinated network of educational institutions, the catastrophicly low salaries of education workers and the resulting shortage of education workers and the low quality of work mean that we are denying our children the future of a modern society. We decide them for low-skilled work at a minimum wage. We are exposed to the risk of poverty and, worse still, to the risk of crime, because building prisons in our country of hundreds of millions is a development rather than an investment in education. We run the risk that our children will not be the ones who will form the world of the future, will make scientific discoveries in medicine, science and other fields, but will work as a minimum wage. I call on the Ombudsman to actively address this issue, not in the form of whether our education system provides a minimum level of education, but more generally whether it is sustainable and provides a competitive, modern and high-quality future for our children. I call on the Ombudsman to examine the problem in essence and to call things into true words. Who in particular is responsible for the fact that we have many low-quality and low-quality schools? Who is specifically responsible and guilty of having many educators who receive low wages and not many high-wage educators? I do not hope that such an analysis will change Krišjānis Kariņš' thoughts on teachers and education in general, but it will at least encourage our society to demand concrete changes in education and attitudes towards our children and the future of our country. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Lejiņš: “This is exactly what he is demanding!” ) Therefore, Mr Leiens, as a long-term politician, you should know that our best university is about 900th in the world. And we should do something about this. And this is a direct task for the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U62	The name of Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U63	Mr. High Rule of Law! Members of the Bureau! Dear colleagues, Indeed, for my part, too, of course, many thanks to the Ombudsman personally and his office for their work throughout the year, from day to day. We have heard the report and, following along, understand that almost entirely all government ministries are affected. There are some recommendations, some things that can be improved in absolutely all ministries. And I also feel absolutely in favour of the proposal that the ministers involved, to whom these various violations or these recommendations would apply, would be present and would perhaps create such a stronger sense of belonging... desire to change something in this system. But I would like to touch on one specific aspect, which is a long-standing problem, which concerns me too, and which was mentioned this week by the representatives of the Ombudsman's Office at the meeting of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. This is a question of the application of the rules of law. Because it often turns out that the regulatory framework is all right for us in many areas, but there is the question whether it is being applied effectively. In his speech, the Ombudsman already pointed out the situation of many children who are in the care of the extra-family; there are various violations there, but often there are no criminal proceedings for cases of violence; specific bruisings or fractures are needed for these children to be considered a criminal offence. It is about the fact that the psychological offence is not taken into account and the fact that administrative proceedings are not being initiated. In this way, we show that we, as a state, do not actually defend the rights of these children as a society. That's what we're already on the child's leg... We don't tell or teach the child that he's worth. Such a person is more exposed to risks, including human trafficking, as he grows and becomes an adult. During the last year, you probably all followed the media for one of the most famous, perhaps the worst, cases - the one that affected the Sala region orphanage house Līkumi, where such acts of violence and violations against children were found. National police have not responded in time, but progress has now been made. Currently, the case against the orphanage manager has already been referred to the court, which took place in December 2018. However, its transfer to the court was due to the fact that the Ombudsman collected evidence on these cases to a large extent... He also confirmed this at the meeting of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs... that a lawyer was involved, who did work for these children free of charge. But these children are all our children. And in this regard... We have already, I think, heard since the 1990s about cases where the National Police is not reacting properly. And I have a very specific recommendation that we, Parliament, too, should be expressing our position. I really appeal to the Chairman of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, Mr Kaimiņš, as well as to my colleague, Mr Rancāns, who is chairing the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, to hold a joint hearing with the judiciary and the judiciary, and to think together what we can do to change this situation, so that there is always a reaction to the violence that is being targeted at the weakest. And today we are talking specifically about violations of children's rights, but the same applies to domestic violence. This is a very, very, very painful problem, and everything is in our hands, even though we, as Parliament, would express our position and say that it is extremely important for us that we are prepared to demand that changes in this area really take place, even though it takes time. And, of course, I would also like to add a little bit to the tax reform mentioned by the Ombudsman. I ask for the time of the debate to be combined.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U64	Are there any objections to merging the time of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U65	Not only the Ministry of Welfare or the Ministry of the Interior are those to which the most recommendations apply. We must all give the annual income declaration these days; we see the consequences of the tax reform. During the meeting of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, the Ombudsman gave a few figures, which I would nevertheless like to name, because he lacked time in his speech. Of those with a single person, 14 percent cannot take advantage of the tax reform, as wages are lower than benefits. Of the two-person workers, 24 percent cannot benefit from the benefits because the wage is lower than the benefits. Of the three-person workers, 36.7 per cent cannot benefit from the benefits because the wage is lower than the benefits. 50 percent of workers with four dependants cannot benefit from the benefits because the salary is lower than the benefits. Of the five-person workers, 66,4 per cent cannot benefit from the benefits because the wage is lower than the benefits. It is clear that the Ministry of Finance has a very, very great job to do to reduce social inequalities and eliminate inherited consequences. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U66	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U67	Can I unite... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U68	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U69	Dear colleagues, I'll talk about some practical things. Thank you to the honourable Ombudsman for his report. These are some of the things I want to emphasise about young people following the end of extra-family care: this is clearly an extremely painful and topical issue, and it must certainly remain on our agenda, because the preparation of such young people for their own life is a duty of the state. It must not be that asylum seekers, for example, would care more about the country than the children of the system. Not only do we need decent housing material support, but we also need a really reliable shoulder that helps us not to lose ourselves in our new lives, and this must be public security. I hope you will agree with me that the country's attitude towards adoptors must also be changed. The entry of a new child into the family should be treated as State aid after the birth of the child. The first promise in this direction is already today, hopefully, that the Saeima confirms the state-paid 10-day leave on account of the adoption of the child, regardless of the age of the child. And I really hope, honourable colleagues, that we will not stop and work on this. Regarding foster families, the issue of specialised foster families was in fact resolved only on paper in the old government, and the previous minister left a heavy legacy to the new minister. Resources to adapt housing to specialised foster families, i.e. families receiving children with serious health problems, will not be sufficient. And it was already known. The country is really holding up many times thanks to sincere people, but with self-pity and warmth, by adding EUR 500, it is not possible to set up a lift for wheelchairs, with self-pity and warmth alone, to prepare an apartment for the reception of children of all ages in a crisis family. And now in concrete terms. Mr Ombudsman, you are the voice of that sense, sometimes its last hope for many people who are seeking justice for the protection of their violated rights. You have said about a dignified life, about reducing poverty, about the state's attitude towards the population. But is it not that the attitude of the state is expressed in the individual actions of every national and in the way that the state treats people that it no longer needs? Would the state have the courage to recruit new rescuers (firefighters), to say honestly: when you have served... After you have done your job of saving lives, and you will live in disability, we will wipe you down as pages of last year. Upon receiving a statement from the State Audit Office about hunting clubs and other unnecessary extremes, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of the previous government's Ministry of the Interior, has found the biggest reason for its waste - it turns out that several retired fire-fighters continue to sit in the old depots on Akmenu Street and Matīss Street. These are just a few families. Some firemen have served their lives - against one ministry! Yes, they relied on what they once promised that the state would take care of them when they served it all their life. But the state changed its mind. You see, colleagues, we'd be ashamed if an ex-president were forced to join the apartment line, we'd be ashamed to see that he'd be put out of the apartment. That would be a scandal. But the Ministry of the Interior is not ashamed to refer retired fire-fighters to court and demand that they be set aside (of course, by imposing on them the obligation to pay the costs)! The former Minister for Home Affairs was not ashamed to play nicely with young guys before the elections, who saved a woman falling through the window. You remember, the whole world saw this heroic thing. There was an election, the minister was in the Saeima, the snuff. But would the Minister have stood in the Saeima if he had stood not only with a small award-winning heroes but also with an application in his hands, standing at the court building door: “Hello! Today I brought an action against those I no longer need. Have a nice day for you!” But no, courage was not enough. The minister decided to blow out its last page after the elections: the family of firefighter Korolenko from Matīss Street will now be forced to release the premises and also pay for the court. When they came to you for help, you said that you should try to reach an agreement with the Ministry. You know what the “new policy” Ministry answered? Mr. Girgans replied that legitimate expectations are their own thoughtful problem! I ask you to think about the state's attitude and I ask you to help us change it, I ask you to stand up for the vulnerable, deceptive. I know that the officials are starting to stand and are not able to say boldly that all unnecessary people will have to be freed. It is possible that not only the sittings of the Constitutional Court should be broadcast live, but also such sittings of the Court, where the State addresses the rescuers of human life. There are so many problems, Mr. Janson! There are indeed so many real problems that we do not have five minutes to tell you about them. Please work with real problems! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U70	Name of Member Dace Rukšāne-Šchipčinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U71	Hello, colleagues! Dear Ombudsman, I would like to thank you for your work. You are doing things that are important to society as a whole. In particular, I would like to commend the preventive mechanism, the regular system of visits, which is the innovation of 2018. It was within the preventive mechanism that a number of violations and deficiencies were found in respect of children's rights in psychiatric treatment facilities and care centres. Last year, society as a whole read and followed the stories of the children of the System with horror; of course, we must also thank the excellent journalists, but the work of the Ombudsman undoubtedly also helps us to draw closer to the goal that children in Latvia should live in a family environment. I read with bitterness some of the report’s findings about the lack of specialists and the natural unavailability of many services. However, I was even more upset by the fact that several institutions and institutions do not take into account the recommendations, recommendations and requests of the Ombudsman. Is it acceptable that of the 119 municipalities only 98 provide the necessary information in response to a request from the Ombudsman? Of course not. Is it acceptable that the State Police for two and a half years is muling the application of the Ombudsman without further progress? Of course not. The problem with the application of the rules is a huge obstacle to the work of the Ombudsman and I hope that we, together with our colleagues in the executive, will be able to work together to strengthen the capacity of the Ombudsman by joint efforts. And another lesson is that the vulnerable groups are already suffering from a lack of specialised services and financial support, and there are 119 different methodologies and procedures at municipal level, which add to the feeling of inequality and exclusion. That is why our country needs an administrative territorial reform to ensure that we provide services and rights of equal quality to all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U72	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U73	I'll probably ask you in good time...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U74	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U75	Thank you. Madam President, Staff of the Ombudsman's Office, those present and those who are probably watching! Colleagues! As the Ombudsman writes in his report, in particular in the summary, the legislator has provided the Ombudsman with specific tasks, rights and duties, the extent of which increases during the years. Accordingly, the increase is also reflected in the scope of the annual work report of the Ombudsman’s Office. It's getting thicker. As the Ombudsman writes in his report, he highlights those issues and issues that describe systemic problems or which are of special importance to society, so I urge the new Saeima power of power! - the position to hear and accept the result of the Ombudsman's work also on his agenda. I will not pay attention to an analysis of the meaning, substance and quality of the Ombudsman's report, but I will say, Mr Janson, of a request to support your recommendations and recommendations that you have made to defend the rights of the child in a very important social area, namely education. And I pray the rulers - the powers! - to hear the position. First. The Ombudsman talks about access to quality education for children with special needs (point 7 on page 393; and not only there, but also in summary). One of the priorities of the main education policy programming document approved and monitored by the Saeima - the Education Development Guidelines 2014-2020 - is inclusive education. I call for this to be reflected in the 2019 breakdown of the national budget, if not done. And, by the way, I ask for specific support from all municipalities in the planned regional territorial reform to promote the implementation at national level of inclusive education, including for children and pupils with special needs. Please support me! Second. Please support the Ombudsman's recommendation to the Ministry of Education and Science (point 11 on page 395) to initiate amendments to the Education Law in order to clarify the responsibilities of municipalities and parents of children in the provision of food services or pay for children of pre-school age, i.e. age when access to quality food ensures mental and intellectual development. As a result, you will be those who will implement the Ombudsman's recommendation to revise the methodology for calculating the cost of catering services. And I ask you to repeatedly prevent the Ministry of Education and Science from pleading as if with no interference (repeated - with no interference!) the autonomous function of the municipalities. I therefore call on you to avoid speculative... that, when it is beneficial for a public body, it would refer to the sudden recognition of the autonomy of another body. Please do not allow this in this case. And support the Ombudsman's recommendation! You also have children and perhaps there will be children. Third, but not last. The Ombudsman points out the need to support children, students with behavioural problems (point 5 on page 392). Summary... There are all the recommendations there. As a solution, the Ombudsman mentions the duty of municipalities to develop behavioural adjustment programmes when the school cannot solve them with its own resources. It is known that municipalities do so as far as possible, so schools also create a new concept (e.g. in Balvos and Kandava). Please support me! And it is no wonder that the Commission responsible for education rejects these new solutions without even allowing the Saeima to decide on this, so decide at Saeima level, although the Minister of Education and Science, yesterday at a meeting with Members of the Group, indicated that a solution and support for these municipalities was necessary. I'm not asking again, but I'm calling for action. How? Just doing the work of your decision-making body. Because you can express your support, starting at least on 20 March, when we will decide on this year's budget. Start! But maybe let's better say - let's start this year so that the Ombudsman's report for 2019 does not become even more extensive. Good luck for the Ombudsman and colleagues! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U76	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U77	Honorable Ombudsman! Mr. Janson! Dear Members, In my view, respect for the interests of minorities in the Republic of Latvia remained outside the reach of the Ombudsman. The very word ‘minority’ is mentioned in the report only twice, and the wording of the legislation is quoted. The policy pursued in the country in the field of minority education remained unseen. The laws adopted last year severely reduced the opportunity for minority children to study in family language, and this is in contradiction with the Council of Europe's ratification of the General Convention for the Protection of National Minorities. The second paragraph of Article 14 states that countries within their education systems “encouraged, if there is sufficient demand, to ensure, as far as possible, that persons belonging to national minorities have the right opportunity to acquire a minority language or to acquire education in that language in the territory of which persons of national minorities, historically or in large numbers, live”. So, "if there is a sufficient demand". Is such a request secured and demonstrated in Latvia? During the previous school year, 28.5 percent of students studied in semi - national languages. The education of some minority pupils was implemented in accordance with international agreements concluded between Latvia and the countries of origin of minorities. These are Lithuanians, Estonians, Jews, Poles and Ukrainians. It is a small proportion of the students of national minorities. On the other hand, 96 percent of minority students learn part of the Russian language. And only Latvian legislation - nothing else! - ensure and determine the way in which their education is to be implemented. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that sometimes public authorities refer to the fact that education is being implemented in Latvia in eight minority languages. Once again, it is only a small proportion of students in seven languages; 96 percent of them in Russian, and in fact, the entire burden of reforming it is also lying down. In my view, the need for training in the family language is clearly demonstrated. Moreover, the nature of the reform is challenging, because no one is interested in what parents think about the transition to Latvian-language learning. The self-confident references of reform authors to the Consultative Council of the Ministry on minority education are more ridiculous, the more often it is mentioned, because in reality interest groups are not represented in this council. I stress that these are the interests of Russian-speaking Latvian citizens in the field of education. It was also overlooked that the legislator and executive in the Republic of Latvia were challengingly ignoring the recommendations of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe on minority education issues. As early as the early 1990s, the OSCE addressed the numerous differences between minorities and public authorities in Europe, which, according to the OSCE, could be exacerbated. President-in-Office, I would like to ask for two more minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U78	Are there any objections to merging the time of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U79	Thank you, Members. The OSCE has identified certain common problems that have occurred in several countries. As minority education, especially in minority language, is a matter of priority among them, the OSCE High Commissioner for Minorities declared: it is clear that education is an extremely important element in maintaining and developing the identity of minority people. And bearing this conclusion in mind, the OSCE adopted recommendations on the right of minorities to education. The recommendations concluded that pre-school and kindergarten training should take place in the basic language of the child. The official language of a country should be taught as an independent subject, and certain subjects, whether in practice or not, should also be taught in the official language. Where possible, countries should create the conditions for parents to make such choices. However, in primary school, it would be best to present the curriculum in minority languages. In secondary education, a large proportion of subjects should be taught in minority languages. I do not know what is more here - the lack of the Ombudsman's desire or lack of knowledge, but the bitter result is obvious. The report shows that there is no reason for Latvian minorities to hope that the Ombudsman will focus his attention on defending their rights, and this, in my view, is a white spot throughout the report, which raises doubts as to whether the Ombudsman has in fact studied in depth the problem that we now experience with our fellow citizens and non-citizen families. I hope that this error will be corrected by the Ombudsman and next year we will hear a more detailed analysis of the problem that I have tried to explain here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U80	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U81	Ladies and gentlemen! The Ombudsman's report highlights poverty as one of the challenges that should be addressed in several places. But the Ombudsman's report does not talk much about the causes of poverty. Undoubtedly, one of the causes of poverty is lending, which often takes place very unthinkablely, deliberately plucking people into debt. When a person receives a credit, not a richer one, but a poorer one, because he gets extra payments, monthly basics, interest, commissions... Now the laws are in some way in order. Article 201 of the Criminal Law, ‘Freighting’, provides that loans of various types made through the deliberate use of the heavy material situation of borrowers, the conditions of which are unduly burdensome for them, are to be punished by temporary deprivation of liberty or by forced labour or by fines. I asked the State Police this January: how many criminal proceedings last year have been proposed in connection with Article 201 of the Criminal Law? The answer was, no one. Despite the fact that there are thousands of people who, precisely because of over-credit, have suffered poverty, lost their property, left outside Latvia, and, unfortunately, others have ended their lives at the end of the loop - despite all this, there is no criminal proceedings initiated in connection with this article of the Criminal Law! In my opinion, the police, the law enforcement and politicians should understand that fertility leads to poverty among the people. And despite this very monetary lobby, represented by both commercial banks and non-bank creditors, and individuals who provide such loans that bring people into absolute poverty, I nevertheless believe that more action should be taken to bring forward the first criminal proceedings in connection with this article of the Criminal Law and bring those responsible to justice. When a number of businesses would have been punished with several million euros and certain individuals would have been held in prison for having led people to suicide, then I think much would change precisely in terms of preventing the risks of poverty.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U82	The name of the Member, Inese Ixten.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U83	Hello, colleagues! First of all, thank the Ombudsman very much for his extensive and meaningful report and the great work he has done! All due respect for me! I want to talk about children and families. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, under every point mentioned by the Ombudsman, and behind all statistics, there is a child - a real, live child, whose life is formed now. And we adults are responsible for how the little man feels and what will happen to him in the future. There are so many institutions in the country that are responsible for the well-being and quality of life of children in our country and that exist only because they are financed from the state budget, which means - from our taxes paid by Latvian citizens! I would also like to ask these institutions to report on and take responsibility for what is happening in Latvia. Why is there still such a disadvantage? We have the Children's Rights Inspectorate, orphan courts, the Ministry of Welfare and other institutions, which should take the Ombudsman's report into account as a plan for the next work to be carried out and start with great urgency to ensure that children in Latvia feel good and safe. We, Members, too, must make use of the Ombudsman's report in our work, because the main issues in the field of human rights, which are not respected in Latvia, are summarised here. I will give just one example. Let us talk about children born with disabilities this time. A baby is born in the family... And no one can guarantee that it will be born whole; even during childbirth a child can get disabled. What happens to the family in this situation? There are two choices: either to take care of a state institution or to take care of the family itself. Unfortunately, in our country, all policies have been directed towards bringing children to a state institution, because care benefits have not been considered, they have not been changed for quite a number of years, and social services are not available in full. It is difficult for someone who has not experienced it himself to understand it. New mothers can't realize themselves. They can't go to work. They cannot be properly educated simply because they are determined to care for their little, sick child. While hearing the Ombudsman's words about the treatment of children in such childcare institutions, who no longer want to put their child there? Is there any belief that he will survive and become healthier? Much is now being said about deinstitutionalisation, but at the same time, there is no question of families already taking care of these children. Why create situations where, when a child is placed in an institution by a family, the opposite is then done - deinstitutionalisation - and the child is returned to the family? So, then, can we find that this child is already in the family? I call on all Members not only to speak beautifully today, but also to carry out just one activity for everyone - then there will be a hundred activities. As a result, the field of human rights will improve in Latvia. To give that a boost, I'll read a Facebook record. One young mother, assisted by inviting Members, writes this Monday: “And today I cry! I yelled with a full heart. I deny hopelessness, injustice. We are involved with the special child in the project co-financed by the European Union Fund by the Ministry of Welfare.’ This project gives the mother an opportunity to go to work and offers an assistant. ‘ But I yell! Today I find out that this project is unlikely to be taken over at national level, as was originally envisaged. With god, my heart work! I'm sorry, kid, we're not going to school today because Mom doesn't work. Why is Mom not working? Because there's no assistant anymore! There is no assistant with a decent salary who would like to work in evenings, nights, holidays and holidays. What does this mean for all those parents who are involved in such a project? Those who have returned to work after a long stop? A huge fall back into the despicationless and hopeless pit. Getting into its four grey walls, depression and isolation from society. I want to be useful! I want to smile and give my child joy! I want a decent reward for all those heart people who want and are able to help us in our daily lives with hard children!” There's still a text here, I'm all...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U84	Mrs Iksten, I regret to say that your debate is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U85	Yeah. I don't believe everything... (Laughter) I won't. So...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U86	Mrs Iksten, the time for your debate has come to an end.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U87	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U88	Thank you. The name to the Member is Att Zakaitistov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U89	Perhaps the basic aim of my speech is to thank the Ombudsman for his work, to wish a good driver in the future and to express, for his part, the commitment that the executive will work with you to solve the problems. We politicians often see people coming to us who have problems. And they tell us these problems, they want them to be solved. And when you see these problems, you often cannot understand which side to go. There are usually inter-resor problems, so my presence here in power is an attempt to develop inter-resor solutions, because the problem of violence is the problem of well-being and home affairs. Social entrepreneurship is the responsibility of the Ministry of Welfare and the Ministry of Economics, and that is how we can deal with problems in the future. Sometimes... The first three months have passed for me here in the Saeima, and sometimes there is a feeling that all of Latvia's cats, all of Latvia's concerns, all of Latvia's interests sometime, after some time, come here in this hall. So that's the funnel. If something starts in Daugavpils, we will see it in the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. If there is someone in Liepaja, it will end up in the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs. Here we live in the saturation and pollution of information that sometimes it is difficult to distinguish between concerns, which are intrigues, which are interests, and in what way the rights also enter the whole of this mess. And then the question must be asked: what is its right? Can We Answer a Child Who Is Right? There's a philosopher, Ronald Dvorkins. In my opinion, he has given an answer to this question - which is right. He says: “Right is like a short card. Rights take hold of interests. Rights are surrounded by intrigues. Rights are a matter of concern.’ And this feeling that you have this short card is needed for every person. Everyone needs equal treatment and respect. Here's a short card! Ten years, I've been with my family... I have lived, worked and grew up together with the organization “wings of Hope” in Sigulda. It is an organization that helps people with mental disorders, people with disabilities. And what I saw there is growth. Growth is slow. These people start to get used to, and they start to feel that each of them has its own short card. Once I had a acquaintance, and I told him, “Let’s go together to the wings of the hope! Be with them children!” He looked at me... and, in my opinion, it describes the attitude of society in general... He looked and said, "Hmm, charity, it's like a pussies. I was better off on my journey.” That's what he said. This is the way we have to go with the Ombudsman. We're going to go this road together. And that's what I wanted to say. Thank you for what you are doing. And let's go ahead! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U90	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U91	This report... There are more than 60 pages this year, but that does not necessarily mean that there are more problems. There are simply more areas. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleagues, The Ombudsman's office is... Well, everything powerful, in principle, like a cyborg... It is an institution that does everything, because all human rights issues come to the Ombudsman. Chapter 8 of the Satversme, entitled “The Fundamental Rights of Human Rights”, is Article 90, which states: “Everyone has the right to know his or her rights.” Sounds pretty simple, but people forget it so much... or unknown, not informed. Bad things. It's not known. On 1 March, many Latvian taxpayers were surprised that they were suddenly indebted to the state. When they enter their data into an electronic declaration system, they see that they owe it. The Ombudsman indicated in the Saeima Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs that there would be no such problems if there were information. Namely, if the State Revenue Service had made a better information campaign about the fact that if a person indicates that he has a zero declaration... If he knew it, he wouldn't have this debt. At least 85 percent of these debtors would not have had this information. In this case, the State Revenue Service had to work harder and report Latvian taxpayers. That is what the Ombudsman has also pointed out. In this case, a note has been made to the State Revenue Service. This is an annual spy from the Ombudsman's office... I talked to Janina Kursitis-Paculi that in Latvian there is no other word than "spicker"... This really is a spy for any party, any political organisation or NGO - about what is happening in Latvia. The Ombudsman has touched on the topic “The Right to Housing”. Dear Members, I draw your attention to the fact that, during the reporting period, when updating information about the assistance of Latvian municipalities in solving the issue of housing, i.e. the progress and dynamics of housing registers during the four-year period, based on the inspection case on the quality of municipal housing funds and housing, the Ombudsman turned to Latvian municipalities. And now, ladies and gentlemen, attention! Of the 119 municipalities, 98 responded. How can that be? How can it be that the Ombudsman asks a question to all Latvian municipalities, 98 responds, but the rest 21 - absolutely not? Doesn't answer at all! These are: Amatas, Apes, Baldones, Bauska, Dobeles, Garkalne, Ķeguma, Nereta, Nica, Olaines, Ozolnieki, Liepaja, Priekules, Reebiņi, Ropažu, Rugāju, Sējas, Vaiņodes, Varakļāna, Vecpiebalga and Ventspils municipalities. That is not acceptable! I think this is a very gross violation. If the Ombudsman asks, he does not have to pray. Local governments must answer the Ombudsman's questions. It is their duty, because they are paid by taxpayers. They are not private canters who can choose whether they will support or not. Please have extra time!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U92	Are Members opposed to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U93	It's been very often that... I would like to say that we are going to go to the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government. Mr Dolgopolova has gone to some of his dances, perhaps now, but we will seek to prevent this minus from being answered by this 21 municipality, as is legally necessary. I would also like to remind Members that you need to know a lot of information. It's your main job to know about everything, everything. But neither are you kiborgs and walking... I do not know encyclopaedias, and you may not always know the answers to many different things that are related, let us say, to human rights. Remember, you can always ask the Ombudsman's Office's opinion. You can ask yourself, as Members, that the Ombudsman's Office is the best cooperation partner for the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Thank you, Mr Ombudsman, for your cooperation. Thank you very much. Thank you to the Ombudsman's Office and your employees, employees. Thank you for your report, for this spy, which should, in principle, be on the table of every Member. More about good things. In 2018, the Ombudsman addressed the Constitutional Court protecting medical personnel... that they are again entitled to a fair premium for overtime work. Namely, if they process their time, they have a fair premium - just as it has been agreed in the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. In the Constitutional Court the Ombudsman won in this case. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. Thank you to the Ombudsman for bringing this problem up to date. And, as I said, he alone has fought this fight. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Orlov: “No one alone! This is not true!” ) Some voices from the left... (Applause) It is so that ministers are usually rated - well-working, poorly-working, able to work better... You, Mr. Ombudsman, with your whole office, ten out of ten! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U94	Thank you. The name to Anda Chakša.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U95	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! I would also like to say a great deal of thanks, of course, to the Ombudsman for his extensive and detailed report. And I guess it's not surprising that both children's rights and mental health problems are the most affected here. And why isn't that a surprise? Because if you are talking about children's rights, you will not believe - just recently - if we measure the time in years, then it is very recently) there were times when even doctors thought they were not in pain. This means that very many medical procedures were carried out without pain, because the children did not... It was only recently understood that the children also suffered pain. And I guess it's just as recently started to talk about children having rights. In this case, we are talking about children's rights. They have the right to receive good education and good health care in order to grow into full members of society. If we are talking about what is good education and good health care, then... Definitely there is a teacher and a doctor, and a nurse who receives an appropriate fee, not to throw out the bile over the children, but to do his job joyfully. And I definitely have to appreciate what the Ombudsman did when he talked about overtime, because there was discrimination between doctors. But here I must also mention that this issue is not so clear; the dual nature of this issue is that the remuneration required by medical professionals is still not achieved, so that it is not lacking only in Riga, but also in the regions. The other thing. When it comes to mental health, I have to say here: if you hear voices, it is a very specific thing, and then we are talking about mental health. And mental health care is still - still! - are stigmatized and not sufficiently attainable in the regions of Latvia. From this point of view, I must say that the Ombudsman's preventive visits to the regions have been very... Well, so encouraging in the sense that the psychiatry plan... The development of psychiatry, I think, could happen much faster in Latvia in the years to come, given that a very good plan has now been developed to have access to both medicines and doctors... patients can benefit from this treatment. But there is still a need to talk about relevant public education, because one of the points mentioned by the Ombudsman is that children have the right to have their parents present at a medical institution. And I absolutely support it, and I've always been in favour of Dad or Mom or both being at the child's hospital. But parents also need to do so. We should not hope that the hospital will now raise these parents. This is once again an issue of education: the issue of public education. However, I would like to say that one thing that I think is largely lacking in this report and in these recommendations is the issue of integrated cooperation. For if the word rehabilitation is mentioned, we often do not even understand what it is meant by it, whether it is medical or social rehabilitation. And the patient is also left between the two ministries working as if working together formally, but overall this issue is not addressed. The patient is still not at the heart of the process of addressing well-being and healthcare together. I therefore fully support the fact that ministers should be present at the time of the Ombudsman's report. And we need cooperation, integration between different sectors. Health: health in all policies. But I think it is not just a matter of health and well-being; it is about a great many things that are affected by this report. Solutions could only be found in horizontal cooperation. Thank you. Thank you again to the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U96	The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U97	Can we combine the two times of debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U98	Are there any objections to the merger of both times? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U99	Ladies and gentlemen! Today I would like to draw attention to three topics. These are deinstitutionalisation, denationalisation and tax reform. It is clear from the Ombudsman's study that although most children with functional disorders want to raise their children in the family and had high expectations on the deinstitutionalisation project, many families are currently disappointed and their understanding of the project is largely restricted to a bunch of paper. The fact that 80 percent of special parents do not feel state support is a sad reality. Unfortunately, this is also confirmed by the Ombudsman. In many places, not all potential recipients have been identified, and an individual needs assessment has not been carried out for 30 percent of children. The regions do not have the necessary specialists and the services offered are not available because they have to go to another municipality. More than half of the parents know what services are available under the deinstitutionalisation project. Almost half of the customers do not receive their services, and this 56 percent do not know when they will be able to receive them at all. Treatment services are planned for 10 times, and no more than four specialists in the five-year period... The most shocking thing in this study is that parents receive the recommendation to place children in a social care institution mainly from medical and public officials. The last point is that the deinstitutionalisation project should have started with general public education. And I would also like to understand how maintenance of day-time centres and other deinstitutionalisation services will be dealt with when the financial support of the European Union comes to an end? In order not to find a situation, day centre rooms begin to rent for commercial purposes... Denationalisation. I would like to draw attention to the future rental law, which, in fact, defends only the interests of the housekeepers, but, for example, to the tenants of denationalised houses, who were literally prevented by the state from acquiring housing, it will create a deadlock situation. Although some were developed on paper... The reality of the various solutions, such as the housing line or the resettlement allowance, is that the last such allowance was paid 10 years ago - in 2009, and the State did not consider it necessary to do what was promised and to find the necessary funds. Where has the money been left for this? The Ombudsman clearly points out that Latvia is bound by international housing requirements. This means that all people have the right to housing, the state and local authorities must address this issue and, if necessary, help. In April 2018, 7012 families were in the apartment queues, but the living rooms were only 1046, i.e. seven times less. At the same time, the Ombudsman notes that only in Riga, Valmiera and Cesis residential fund is updated and improved. The Ombudsman also notes that Latvian spending on social housing and housing benefits for low income households are among the lowest in the European Union. Tax reform. The Ombudsman rightly points out that tax reform has not achieved its objective of reducing inequalities, but has provided the basis for ensuring that socially vulnerable groups cannot break the risk of poverty. It is absurd that even schoolchildren who have earned their income in the summer have become tax debtors. The system created by the authors of the reform is contrary to the principles to be followed when deciding on changes in taxes. This is the principle that the taxpayer who fairly pays them must not suffer from the drawbacks of the tax system. The optional minimum system does not comply with this principle. According to the Ombudsman’s representative, those who advertised tax reform had not studied or even knew many nuances. After restoration of independence, 600,000 people have left Latvia. For such a small nation, that is a lot. Only a few hundred have returned. And emigration continues as long as such an unwise tax policy that directly affects workers is implemented. The number of travelling shoes at the Cabinet of Ministers is increasing... There's a lot of smart heads in these tricks - those who have a good education and are professionals. There are many here who have come to do the job of their Member in the best conscience. I therefore call once again on everyone to consider carefully the conclusions and recommendations made by the Ombudsman and to start with a small amount of corrections to the incomplete and unthought-out reform. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U100	Dear colleagues, Members Dzintars, Strīķe, Zakaitistovs, Pavļuts and Adamovičs are asking for a break after the examination of item 13 “Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Latvia for 2018”. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov. Are Members opposed to merging the two times of the debate? Objection... Who has reservations? Please... Mr. Neighbours, please come and vote. ( Internouncing call.) Quick! Please call me! Let us vote for bringing the time of the debate together for Member Nikolai Kabanov! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The debate times are united. Please, start!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U101	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, Mr. Ombudsman! Studying more than 400 pages long law guard - the State Guard of Latvia! - the report, I had the impression that he deliberately ignored an important area of application of the law. That is, there is no word in Mr Janson's report about the transition of minority schools to training, mainly in the national language. Indeed, Mr Jansons mentioned that the Ombudsman's Office gave an opinion on the Constitutional Court case due to our claim to suspend the reform, but we did not get acquainted with your arguments. As is well known, in 2018, the majority of the previous parliamentary composition has adopted an amendment package that effectively eliminates the possibility of using minority native languages in secondary school and limits its use to 20 percent in grades 7-9 and 50 percent in grades 1-6. And now I would like to turn to those Members who have children. There are many such Members in our term. I think you do not fully understand what is happening to those children who are now studying in minority schools. The following year, they will no longer be a problem with the education system, they will be a criminal problem, as many of them will end up in re-training institutions, going to special schools, about which Mr Janson has said a great deal today. I was able to attend my parents ’ meeting at a school where my son was a sixth - grade student. And I can tell you that the biggest problem now is not education in Latvian. The main problem is behaviour, perception and discussion between teachers and students. Unfortunately, the Ombudsman's report also fails to report the rights of teachers. What can a teacher do if hooligan - minded students turn aggression against educators? It is a very common daily problem in our schools. But the so-called reform does not, unfortunately, promote either good behaviour or good education in minority schools. This is contrary to the basic legal instrument of our country - the Constitution. Today, my colleague, Igor Pimenov, also mentioned a great deal the norms of the Convention on Minorities. I would like to talk about the Constitution. Article 114 states: ‘Persons belonging to minorities shall have the right to maintain and develop their language, ethnic and cultural specificities’. Many thousands of students' parents and teachers who are addressees of this reform have already publicly expressed a negative attitude towards both its usefulness and its feasibility. This is reflected in a variety of ways, both in our events and in the media, as well as in discussions on social networks, in the collection of signatures for the preservation of minority education. Surprisingly, the Ombudsman has not noticed this mass protest and has not pointed it out in his report. At the moment, the Constitutional Court will continue its proceedings against the reform, which were submitted by the defenders of the rights of ethnic minorities and professional lawyers of Latvia. The honourable OSCE High Commissioner for Minorities is currently residing in Latvia, Mr Lamberto Dzanjer. His programme also includes a meeting with the Ombudsman, Mr Janson, and I have a serious concern that the Ombudsman will present Mr Dzanjer not to the real situation, but to say, to such Potjomkin's armor. In recent years, Mr Janson has acted not as an independent expert but as an average nationalist politician. This is also reflected in the fact that nationalist politicians support him in every way. He wants points from them. I don't know, maybe he's going to a political career? In 2011, I was one of those who brought Mr Janson up for this responsible post, but unfortunately today I feel deceptive and will not repeat my mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U102	Name to Member Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U103	Hello, honourable Chairman of the Saeima, members of the Bureau, colleagues, the Ombudsman and others! In another year's report, the Ombudsman said that, in fact, human rights are a right to happiness. In last year's report, though, I do not see the word 'happiness'. This may have disappeared because it has been reduced from 600 pages to 450, which is also significant. But I hope that you are still concerned about how happy we are in Latvia and how happy our children and young people live in Latvia, because it is important. In my opinion, the world's happiness index is a good indicator. In the 2018 UN study among the world's statistically successful countries, Latvia ranks 53rd among 156 countries. And some of the work we need to do, how we can encourage citizens to be more happy, is mentioned in the Ombudsman's report. I will emphasise the most important things in my view. There is one important issue that appears in the Ombudsman's reports from year to year. This is a lack of inter-institutional cooperation at national and local level. According to the Ombudsman, there are areas where there is no cooperation at all. At the moment, as part of the new school reform, cooperation skills are planned to be taught to our children. Such a reform of competences should also be carried out by services and professionals involved in the field of the rights of the child, and without delay. How can we train children and young people to cooperate if a large part of the adult state and municipal institutions do not do so and are not a good example? Looking at the studies of recent years, I conclude that trust in the Ombudsman in Latvia is quite positive and even high, which unfortunately cannot be proud of the Saeima, so I call on the Ombudsman to use this trust more actively. I believe that a real improvement in cooperation in many areas would also help to promote the financial situation, as the absence of cooperation is certainly an economically disadvantageous process. It is also clear that the lack or absence of cooperation is one of the most important factors which shows how much administrative territorial reform is needed in Latvia. The Ombudsman also points out that the full functioning of the information system for supporting minors is not ensured for a long time. I will not agree with the details that this system is, but I really urge you not to allow this current system to pass through the bubble or not to be implemented qualitatively. One particular case in which I call on the Ombudsman to become more active so that children who are victims in Latvia have a more friendly questioning as soon as possible, as well as to give his advice to better coordination of the institutions involved in the investigation. In particular, the project “Children’s House” initiated by the Centre Dardze, which provides for a more child-friendly questioning and cooperation between the investigating authorities, has now entered into operation. Meanwhile, statistics on sexual abuse against children are harsh. Two weeks ago, the Chief of State Police, Ints Ķuzis, told the responsible commission that 229 minors, 14 percent more than a year earlier, were affected by crimes affecting morality and sexual integrity last year. Help this project not to put it in drawers! Can I unite the times?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U104	Do Members have objections (Interface: ‘No!’) ) against the unification of the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U105	The next point that I would like to highlight and for which the Ombudsman has already started to pay more attention. It seems to me that freedom of association in Latvia is under threat. This is threatened by lack of funding, by the actions and attitudes of individual public authorities; they would not be named today. They shall act in the field of control and as the organiser of design contests. There are institutions with which project organisers fear the non-governmental sector, justifying the administrative burden. I hear all the time, especially in the last month, that it is necessary to account for all the people who at some event have eaten clings. NGOs refuse to even write projects because the requirements are disproportionately high in relation to funding. In Latvia, when implementing projects, a disproportionate amount of time is devoted to reports and not to direct activities in projects. If we do not motivate the NGO sector, I fear that civil society will not grow as well as it should. The Ombudsman has also started activities to strengthen civil society. I agree that civic participation should be encouraged already in schools. Future NGOs, civil society activists and party members grow up in schools. The recently published “Latvian Child Welfare Network” study on the well-being of young people in Latvia identifies a number of problems, and improvements need to be made in all areas studied. In Latvia, many young people feel lonely, do not feel support for their families, and are depressed by material problems in their family. I was specifically referred to the section of the study on participation. It clearly shows that we have a problem in Latvia with the motivation of young people to engage in regular, targeted activities, forms of participation such as participation in youth organisations, participation in the non-governmental sector, participation in school self-government, municipal youth councils, voluntary work. In my opinion, it is difficult to motivate young people to participate in elections... give young people from 16 years of age the right to participate in municipal elections... There have been many discussions about this: opportunities for participation, opportunities for active participation... and has little content in school... I hope that the Ombudsman has also presented his conclusions in relation to the content of School 2030 training. I would like to thank the Ombudsman and the team very much. May your success be better! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U106	Name to Member Arvil Asheraden.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U107	Dear colleagues, I will also join in the positive assessment of the Ombudsman's report. If we compare those early reports of the Ombudsman and the report of 2018, we really see fundamental progress in both the assessment of problems, the provision of recommendations and the resolution of various cases - up to legal proceedings and the initiation of cases - with a good result. And it must be said that such a report is a sign of the quality of any democratic state and democratic process. We can certainly say that this report is. I'd like to... After the agenda, I should talk about the education process... The Commission that is concerned by this report, but I have to say that the Commission has been working for only three months. I have a lot of questions to talk about, but I will do that next year. However, I will mention one thing that has been linked to my activity as Minister for Economic Affairs, and that is the subject of the right to housing, named by the Ombudsman. It has to be said that this issue has long been unsolved for decades, and the Ombudsman's indication that only seven thousand families are in the queue at the moment is a very, very small number of reality. If we look at how the processes have progressed, we can see that the solution to the problem of housing has so far been left to free market mechanisms. At the moment, we see that this does not solve this problem in any way. The demand is huge when looking at a government programme that helps young families with children and facilitates access to credit. We have been unable to meet this in general. It is clear that further public intervention is needed. The next thing - does the Latvian people... a family with a level of income can buy a new home? The answer is that no more than 10-12 percent of families can afford it at current prices. And that means that the government has to intervene clearly in this market and look for a solution to alleviate the situation. Why... should this be done? There is a clear response to pilot projects carried out by municipalities. Let me just mention Valmiera, where real estate construction has begun and even the demand for relatively expensive housing is huge. Valmiera - only one city - would need more than a thousand or even two thousand new dwellings. It must be said that the government has dealt with this issue in such a way that favourable Treasury loans are available, but it does not seem sufficient either because these loans are available for a period of 30 years. In order to achieve an effective price, solutions will have to be found to make loans more affordable and allow the price of rental square metres to be reduced from five euro per square metre to three euro per square metre, thus making housing more accessible. In any case, I can say that now, following a survey carried out by the Ministry of Economic Affairs in all the major urban areas, with the exception of Riga, they have declared that they need no less than 200 new apartments, and this is a clear signal that this should be done. That would be one. The second issue that the Ombudsman spoke about is the law on rental. The rental law was completed several years ago by the Ministry of Economics... Two years ago, and it is carefully “marinated” by the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. I would like to say that this is an unforgivable situation, and I call on the Commission, however, to move forward rapidly with this law. In fact, the rental market hides a huge reserve in itself, because many people simply do not rent the apartments because they know clearly that they will not be protected and will not recover the funds. Another point raised here was that the new rental law discriminates against the people of denationalised houses. I would like to say that, as a result of this pick-up, we lost the six million euros reserved for last year's budget, which, with the adoption of this law, was intended to be paid to the owners of denationalised houses. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “It was just because of the Ministry of Economics and not because of the law!” ) I would like to say, Mr Dolgopolov, thank you very much for your work and hope that you will move forward more decisively. I would like this law to be adopted this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U108	The name is Digit Schmidt. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U109	I should like to ask you immediately to combine the times.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U110	Do Members object to the unification of the time of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U111	Thank you. I'm going to go to the Ombudsman. Thank you for your work. I really do not envy you, like no one who will be the Ombudsman after you sometime in the future, because this post and the scope of his duties reminds me of something from the story of Karl Slave, Katikas Mill. There was such an image - a king who accumulated all the sorrows of the world and lived with them. Maybe that's the technical difference between that king and you have the opportunity once a year to sum up all the sorrows and give us here. And then we're those... ( Interface: “We’re grieving! ” ) And then we are grieving, as Atis said. Yeah, it's the funnel where this book... We know that once a year this book will come - and come fairly! - here, because we are the 100 people elected by the public to read this book and deal with it. The question that I got up on the table is as follows. I hope that we will all read and deal with this book... The question is, how will we get to it - whether we will only read separate fragments and try to glue them with patches or swipe them, or see them as a whole. And actually to say what I want to say now, I was encouraged by Jānis Dombrava, who rightly said that through this report not only in writing, but in general goes one word: "in poverty". Because many of the things that have been described there come from poverty. Both from direct poverty in certain families, from which someone has left the country and who have broken down, and from the motivation of people who come to help them in public administrations or otherwise. And is a person who cannot deal with his family, as he says, in terms of prosperity, a great help for those who are not doing the same? When we read this book, the most important thing we should think about is how to reduce this poverty. In particular, as observed, poverty can only be alleviated by increasing the country’s overall prosperity and economic growth. In my opinion, the reason why we are not really satisfied with our economic growth and the level at which we are, even though we have regained independence so many years ago, is this. We've missed two things. And here I do not criticise this government or anyone else specifically. I'm talking about the state, society, the Saeima, everyone. We have a lack of state power over people with economic thinking, which is, in fact, automatically then, also long-term thinking. Long-term thinking! If we continue to stick the patches, we will not solve the problem. I also listened to the interview by Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš on “Morning Panoramic”. And I accept... I suppose there's a mistake there. Well, he said it. At least I hope so. But if he really believes that investment in education is development money, so to say, bypassing, then it is bad. But it's nothing new. That is unfortunately what we have been thinking for a long time. Why do I say all this? I'd like one of those... I don't have one idea out of my head... Even though I know that sector a long time ago, it was yesterday that its representatives visited the Sustainable Development Commission. In particular, it is the forest sector. In a broad sense. From forest owners to timber industry - all this segment was present. I'm telling you, it's a model industry. But why do I mention this when I talk about where we can take people who can think economically and think in the long term? In fact, this is a sector from which, sometime in the future, we should select people who lead the country's economic development. Because in this sector, the average planning time is 50 years, normal 100 years. The average is 50. And 10 years is... Well, that's... Well, it's just a short term, so it doesn't need to be given special importance. And that is exactly what, with a broad view in the long term and correspondingly taking economic steps, this sector is bringing us more than three billion per year today. That was not the case 30 years ago. I invite you to read this book, but read it conceptually. Poverty is referred to there as really the main reason... And I call for people to be searched for work in public administration, including from the forest sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U112	The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U113	Member Nikolai Cabanov criticised the Ombudsman for lack of criticism of school reform in the report... transition to Latvian-language training. In my opinion, this Member's speech by Kabanov would have been better aligned with the Russian State Council than with the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia. On the contrary, I would like to commend Ombudsman Jansons for supporting the transition to Latvian-language training, because when all the parties in the Saeima at that time supported and led this transition only by the National Association, Ombudsman Jansons was one of the first high-level public officials to support this transition and also mentioned the arguments why it is unreasonable to continue the double school system in another language. I therefore express my deep thanks to the Ombudsman, Janson, for his help in this fight, which has finally won last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U114	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U115	Hello, honourable Ombudsman! Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Since several colleagues have already spoken about the problem of access to housing, I would like to clarify this area. The question of the extent to which people in our country could exercise the right to housing enshrined in the Constitution is very, very complex and broad. Unfortunately, in the Ombudsman's report, I did not find any words about a very serious problem, which was not discussed today, namely the cessation of shared property. I would like to inform you that on Monday, 11 March, a large-scale first conference will be held at the Saeima, devoted to the issue of the liquidation of shared property, in which representatives of the Ombudsman's Office are also invited to attend. We very much hope that with your help we will be able to move forward with this problem. I will object to former Minister for Economic Affairs, Asheraden, who has 12. During the Saeima, no new rental law was adopted, linked to the possibility of paying compensation to the poor tenants of denationalised houses. It is absolutely wrong, and even absurd, because the cost of this compensation is determined by another law - the long-established law on assistance to the apartment issues. This law has not been enforced in our country for 10 years, and I have already spoken about it here. We will certainly adopt the new rental law, there is already a debate with stakeholders, there are options, and we will be happy to wait for you, Mr Asheraden, if you really have an interest in this issue, at the meetings of the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government in which we will look at this issue in May this year. By May, there is every opportunity to submit proposals. But I call all of you... The Ombudsman's report is a very good document. It is a road map for us Members and, of course, for the government. The main issue is the implementation of these recommendations - how we will implement all the recommendations in regulatory acts and laws and how the government will implement them in life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U116	I closed the debate. Mr Ombudsman, would you have something to add after the debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U117	(Legal Guard of the Republic of Latvia). Yeah, thank you. Very short. Thank you for your good words. Thank you for your assessment. Thank you for your objective criticism. There are three things I want to mention. Annual report - it is a report to Parliament and the public on what we have done. But, as has rightly been mentioned here (and this is written in the introductory part), the report would be even longer - at least 600 pages. In particular, if we were to include all those annexes, all the information relating to the subject of social inequality and poverty, if we were to add to the information that we also sent to international institutions. Moreover, it will not be unnecessary to say here that the latest report by the European Commission, which is speaking or, more rightly, informs Latvia of its criticism of social inequality and points out that it is a more rapid step to reduce, is also based to a large extent on our report. Last year, we also sent our report to the European Commission on social inequalities, poverty and what should be dealt with immediately. We did this with the idea that the European Commission would exercise its rights and turn national responsible authorities, governments, to the attention that something would be done. Now we've been heard. What was also mentioned in the report by Mrs Dana Reizniece-Ozola, who is very respectable, on social inequality and poverty, is true. There is very little information about what we have done. But if we look back on this, we are reporting on this every year, and shortly after the parliamentary elections, we have had such a shift for the new parliament with regard to the immediate problems of social inequality and poverty. And not just. In public, too, we have very often informed the government, relevant ministries and Parliament in various fora about urgent problems. And here's three things to list again. The first case is that of the guaranteed minimum income (GMI), which is old; it is not based on any economic justification. It is also critical that social security benefits are out of date and that no economic justification is still based. So these are the two essential elements that actually determine the most serious element of poverty... country level, if it can be expressed. This depends on the social security benefit... It also depends on various benefits and pensions for persons with disabilities. The minimum pension depends on it. This is therefore the basis for the grounds on which it is based. In my annual reports, especially over the last five years, I pay particular attention to the rights of the child because, indeed, in the area of children's rights, the legislation is good or excellent for us, while the results... Are these laws and regulations respected and children’s rights guaranteed? Unfortunately, I have to say no. And I've been reporting that one year from now. It must be said that Parliament, as legislator, as colegislator, has done everything in this respect from a legislative point of view. But I would also ask you to look at the implementation of the laws that you pass from the point of view of parliamentary scrutiny to the executive. I think this is extremely important because... There were different metaphors, comparisons. I, if I may, will also use a little metaphor... You are in Latvia the beginning and the end. You are the ones who determine how people in Latvia will live, what education they will receive, on which routes they will move - and so on and so on. Why? Because you have to decide about it. There are two very important documents, the most important laws in the country. One of them is the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, the 8th chapter of which contains everything – the way in which Latvia should live, the kind of Latvia it should actually be. Let us also share this with the introductory part, which states that Latvia is a socially responsible country. It was your decision. It was Parliament's decision. So we need to think about social justice, we need to think about changing social policy. I would also like to add the second most important law. It is a law on the state budget. And that's your decision again. I have a very great request to see how Members of Parliament have, of course, also worked on state budget law at night for objective reasons... but, in my opinion, this document, this law, is in fact the most important - it determines how Latvia will live for the next year or for the next two or three years. And that's your decision. You have absolute power in this regard. I really appreciate... and thank you also for those calls and good words when you see us as partners, advisors and get us involved in experts and panel opinions. We have done so and we will do it because we are your adviser. We have common goals, but the methodology for achieving them is different. You have power, I have an opinion. Thank you very much for your attention. And luck in future work! I'm very, very... I really look forward to such a particularly responsible and thorough budgetary process. Collect officials, call ministers, call us, call anyone who can give objective information about concrete proposals, concrete cases, and then decide. Thank you very much also for your proposal that ministers be invited to my annual report. In my opinion, this is a very good idea, because the ministries, as executive bodies, as policy makers in the sectors, are indeed responsible for how they have succeeded both in the declarations and, in particular, in what is enshrined in the law. I have another proposal that I had intended to prepare and present in Parliament - namely to amend the roll of order of the Saeima by providing that the Ombudsman has the right to participate and to give an opinion during the sittings of the Parliament on draft laws that have been dealt with by the commissions where the Ombudsman or the colleagues in the Ombudsman's office have expressed their views. Because there are situations where there are different opinions in the commissions, the experts invited are fluctuating or opinions very controversial. In my opinion, this would be responsible and effective from the point of view of human rights and the principle of good governance - to call on the Ombudsman to give his opinion on the specific proposal that has been dealt with in the Commission so that the entire parliament can hear it. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U118	Thank you to the Ombudsman, thank you to the staff of the Ombudsman's Office, who are also following the sittings and debates of the Saeima. Thus, the report of 2018 of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Latvia has been examined. It's time for a break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U119	Not registered: Aldis Blumbergs, Boriss Cilevičs, Aldis Gobzems, Kaspars Girgens, Artuss Kaimiņš... ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Andris Kazinovskis, Andrejs Klementjevs, Rihards Kols, Ieva Krapāne, Māris Kučinskis, Jānis Urbanovičs and Ivars Zariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U120	Thank you. Interruption until 2.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U121	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can continue the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on the Election of the President’, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U122	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has examined and prepared for the third reading the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Election of the President of Latvia”. No proposals for a third reading were received by the Commission. Consequently, the commission has approved the draft law and has led it to be supported at the third reading today at the Saeima sitting. Please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U123	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Election of the President of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 60, against and abstaining. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U124	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U125	On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law on bailiffs”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U126	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has examined and prepared for the third reading the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Judicial Executives”. 1. is a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr Bordan. Technical proposal: It specifies the formulas on the basis of which the loads of sworn bailiffs are levelled. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U127	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U128	2. - a proposal by the Minister of Justice to waive the requirement to submit a model signature and a stamp to the heads of public registers, as information between registers is now exchanged through an electronic system using an electronic signature. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U129	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U130	3. - a proposal by the Minister of Justice on transitional provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U131	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U132	On behalf of the Commission, please support the adoption of the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U133	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Executors of the Court” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption - Member Mārtiņš Staķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U134	Dear colleagues, The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia” and prepared it for the third reading. A total of five proposals have been submitted. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U135	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U136	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U137	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U138	3. - Arta Pabrika's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U139	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U140	4. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U141	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U142	And also 5. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U143	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U144	On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to adopt the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U145	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guards” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law on amendments to the Military Service Law, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption - Member Mārtiņš Staķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U146	We examined in the Commission the draft law on amendments to the Military Service Law. No proposal has been received for this draft law. Please support third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U147	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Military Service Law, third, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law on amendments to the Labour Law, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Normunds Gunna.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U148	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has unanimously supported the draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law” for the third reading. No proposals were received. Please support third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U149	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendments to Labour Law" in the third, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Dear colleagues, Members Gobzems, Liepiņa, Sprūde, Šmits and Stepanenko are asked to make changes to the agenda of the Saeima sitting and to include in it the draft law “Amendment to Civil Procedure Law”. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U150	I'm so sorry I'm gone. I was just at the Children's Clinical University Hospital. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike laughs.) It wasn't funny. The purpose of this amendment is, in fact, very simple. Article 6 of the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child states that the rights of the child are priority and that the interests of the child are priority. However, our procedural laws mean that recovery focused on the maintenance of the child is, in fact, more priority than the rights of the child. The child is a creditor for maintenance, but in fact, the Civil Procedure Law currently provides that the bank as a creditor has a greater right to recover maintenance and reduce to a minimum... greater rights than children to all maintenance. Therefore, my proposal to delete in Section 596(5) of the Civil Procedure Law the words ‘the amount of minimum child support fixed by the Cabinet of Ministers’, namely that recovery cannot at all be directed to the means of maintenance carried out for the benefit of the child. Because the rights of the child are priorities. Not to limit and reduce the child’s maintenance for him or her and to give back this money, for example, to banks, but to give it to the child! This proposal does not in fact have any impact on the national budget. It is in the interests of the child. Adults who have a relationship, a debt relationship, are certainly secondary in nature; they are not as important as a child who has to live with so little means of living. This rule applies to children who do not actually live in single - parent families, so it is about maintenance. I'm sorry that I didn't get my breath by saying... I was in a hospital for one quick operation for my child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U151	Do Members object to the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of the sitting? ( From the UK Group: “Yes! ” ) Members have reservations. Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendment to Civil Procedure Law” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 29, against - 43, refraining from - 1. Draft legislation is not on the agenda of the sitting. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Management”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Dūklavs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U152	Dear colleagues, The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined and prepared for third reading the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Management”. We have received four proposals. Proposal No 1 is the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Grassberg. This is partly supported. Incorporated 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U153	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U154	2. is a proposal from Mr Puce, Minister for the Environment and Regional Development. It is also partly supported and included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U155	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U156	Proposal 3 is a proposal from the responsible commission, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U157	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U158	4. is the proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Grassberg, who is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U159	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U160	I call for support for this draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U161	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Management” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U162	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U163	On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Labour Protection Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Normunds Gunna.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U164	The Social and Labour Commission worked on the draft law “Amendments to the Labour Protection Law”. The nature of these amendments to the law is as follows: The employer must ensure that all labour protection requirements set by the employees of the company are applied. Amendments to the law shall also apply to persons employed and self-employed at a distance. The amendments also provide that the employer has the right to replace paper documents with electronic documents, thereby cutting red tape. Please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U165	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Labour Protection Law". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U166	Deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading - 31 March 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U167	21?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U168	31. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U169	31 March. Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 31 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Designs”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U170	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Education, Culture and Science examined amendments to the Law on Designs proposed by the Ministry of Justice. The reasons for the amendments are the Law on Administrative Responsibility, which will enter into force in 2020. The nature of the draft law. The amendments provide for administrative liability in the field of design protection to be included in the law, as well as the designation of the competent authority for carrying out administrative infringement proceedings and enforcement of penalties. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U171	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Designs”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 63, against - 15, abstaining. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U172	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 30 April of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U173	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is April 30. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Jānis Krišāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U174	Dear President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, please support the amendments to the Labour Act tabled by Members pursuant to Rule 79 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I can read them. Their essence is to express the fifth paragraph of Article 155 as follows: ‘In a family who has adopted children under 18, one of the adoptors shall be granted 10 calendar days of leave.’ On behalf of the Commission, please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U175	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U176	Dear colleagues, As Mr Krishan has already pointed out, this bill is about the fact that, in cases of adoption of children over three years of age, these families will receive 10 days of paid leave in court after adoption, which is wonderful. In conceptual terms, this proposal was supported by the Commission and I believe that it will also be supported by the Saeima. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are talking about children who... As was also outlined in the Ombudsman's report today, these are often children who are not provided with all the necessary social services while in the care of the outside family. Maybe their rights are being violated, they're all-- emotionally and not just... sometimes also physically suffered and suffered from violence. They are very wounded and that is why they are a little different. I would like to look a little ahead. When these children enter the family, they have to be part of society, and they do so either in kindergartens, in pre-school schools or in schools - in the education system. I call on all of us, all the political groups in the Saeima, to be very active in this term, at this time, which we are given, to work and to support inclusive education. For children not only to have a positive family experience, but which is just as important and perhaps even more important in their lives, they also have inclusive rather than marginal education and can then be fully involved in our society as responsible members of society. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U177	I closed the debate. Is something to be added on behalf of the Commission after the debate? None. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Labour Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U178	Submission deadline - 22 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U179	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 22 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Jānis Krišāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U180	This is the continuation of the draft law tabled by Members pursuant to Rule 79 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The amendments are to be made to Articles 10.1 and 10.2 as follows: 10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Article 1 — Cases of paternity benefit and period of payment of paternity benefit: ‘Paternity benefit shall be granted for the 10 calendar days of the leave granted: (1) the father of the child as a result of the birth of the child; (2) one of the parents as a result of a non-family dependent child under 18...’ And 10. Article 2 ‘Basis for the grant of paternity benefit’ provides that the basis is to be established on the basis of an application made by the claimant, a court judgment or an employer’s approval. These are the amendments that have been proposed. Please support, he has been supported and supported by the parliamentary commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U181	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U182	Dear colleagues, Thank you very much for the previous vote. And thank you also to the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs for having dealt promptly with this draft law. I would also like to express my satisfaction at the fact that we have found at least one point in this House where we are all united and where we all vote in favour. Thank you for that. Currently there are more than 1000 children in Latvia who are in the care of the extra-family, and it is clear that adoption is the best and most stable way to ensure this if possible. And more. It seems to me that the time has also come to look at adoption in a very different way than we looked before. Whatever the age of the child, adoption is the final entry of the child into the family, and in essence it can be likened to the birth of a child into a new family. In both cases, it is necessary to spend time together, and this time should also be given to young parents in the event of adoption, regardless of the age of the child - whether two years or three years or 12 or 18 years. This could be our first small promise to the big idea of state-paid, full leave for one of the adoptors - just like parental leave after the birth of a child. As you have heard, the Commission supports the idea of giving 10 days' paid leave to one of the parents, adoptors of the child, because of the adoption of the child - irrespective of the adopted child's age. And it will be possible to use it within half a year from the entry into force of the court decision approving adoption. Let us remove restrictions and allow all adoptors, regardless of their age, to devote the most precious resource in our lives - time - to their children. And let us hope that this promise will only be the beginning of an ambitious change in the issue of adoption. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U183	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add? Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U184	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 22 March. And, with great interest, I call on Members to submit proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U185	Forgive, which March?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U186	March 22nd.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U187	March 22th?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U188	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U189	The deadline for submitting proposals is 22 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U190	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U191	Thank you. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Privatisation of State and Local Government Property””, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Arthur Tom Ples.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U192	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! In the commission of economic, agricultural, environmental and regional policy we have examined and prepared amendments to the law “On privatisation of state and municipal property objects” for the second reading. We have received two proposals. Proposal 1 is a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U193	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U194	Proposal No 2 is also a proposal from the committee responsible. And it is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U195	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U196	I call for support at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U197	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Privatisation of State and Local Government Property”” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U198	March 21st.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U199	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 21 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Finalisation of Privatisation and Use of Privatisation Certificates of State and Local Authorities”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Arthur Tom Ples.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U200	In the Commission, we have examined the amendments to that law and prepared for the second reading. Two proposals have been received. 1. is a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U201	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U202	2. The Commission's proposal is also in charge. And that's supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U203	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U204	I call for support at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U205	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Privatisation of State and Local Government Property and Use of Privatisation Certificates”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U206	March 21st.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U207	The deadline for submitting proposals is 21 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Procedure for Evaluation of Privatisation of State and Local Government Property Objects”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Arthur Tom Ples.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U208	In the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy we have examined and prepared for the second reading the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Procedure for Evaluation of Privatisation of State and Local Government Property Objects””. No proposals have been received. I call for support at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U209	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Evaluation of Privatisation of State and Local Government Property Objects””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U210	March 21st.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U211	The deadline for submitting proposals is 21 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law on the privatisation of land in rural areas”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Arthur Tom Ples.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U212	In the Commission we have also examined the draft law “Amendments to the law on the privatisation of land in rural areas” within the framework of this package of laws. We have received four proposals. 1. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U213	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U214	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U215	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U216	3. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U217	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U218	4. - the proposal by Member Lubova Svekov. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U219	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U220	Dear Voters! People of Latvia! The essence of my proposal is to carry out, before 1 July of this year, a procedure for the termination of the public limited liability company ‘Privatisation Agency’ by transferring the exercise of the functions under its competence to other public authorities which are already performing analogous functions or whose areas of competence overlap. Unfortunately, my proposal was rejected by the Commission. I accept that a majority of the Saeima will also reject this. But I want you, constituents, to know, first of all, how the money you, the taxpayer, are spent on taxes, and, second, how the promises made during the pre-elections are fulfilled by your elected Members. Because the new conservative party promised to abolish the ‘Privacy Agency’. But what is happening now? On the Saeima's agenda there are only so-called "scaffolding works" and not capital repairs in this unit - it is only intended to change the name from "Privacy Agency" to "Privacy Authority". In my opinion, this is irresponsible action and waste of money. What is publicly available about the functioning of this unit? Its turnover in the previous year was 1 860 579 EUR. Of this staff costs EUR 1 320 386. The structure consists of six departments and six divisions of 72 people. What are the key performance indicators for this body? In 2017, 258 purchase contracts were concluded with this institution, and in 2018 this entity only 199 purchase contracts were concluded. But in the next two years this department plans to conclude 168 purchase contracts. Isn't it economical as it is a little unreasonable for 72 people, six administrations and six departments to conclude 168 purchase contracts? Oh, yeah, this unit performs a variety of other very important functions. It manages five capital companies with problematic assets and two other companies, the capital of which is likely to be in the near future... The political forces in power are likely to hand over to private entities. I am referring to Lattelecom and LMT. That is why, I accept, I also do not want to remove this unit and transfer its functions to the relevant services. I will also draw the public's attention to the fact that the Ministry of Economics has a total of 199 officials (Interinstitutional call). , it consists of 12 departments and 21 divisions (including analytical service). Under the auspices of the Ministry of Economy, there are also five direct administrative bodies, which also have a function in this area. But you, tax payers, can afford to maintain another institution that manages the state assets of which the Ministry of Finance is the shareholder (intersor.) “State Real Estate”! ‘ The State Real Estate Board is composed of five members. And the structure consists of seven administrations and 34 departments. The remuneration budget for the unit is already €7 822 929 per year. Year. So, taxpayers, voters, decide for yourself how your money, the taxpayer, is spent! ( Intercretion: “Who would speak about it! ”) ) Thank you. Vote!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U221	I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur base his opinion on this?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U222	In the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, we have learned in detail about the “Privatisation Agency”’s follow-up and strategy on how they intend to work, and we have carefully assessed each of the proposals submitted. I would remind you that this proposal by the Member, Mr Lubova, was not supported by the Commission. I call on you to vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U223	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the proposal tabled by Member Svekova! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported. The proposal is not supported!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U224	Yeah. I call on the whole to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U225	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the law on the privatisation of land in rural areas” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U226	Like previous draft laws, this is also 21 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U227	The deadline for submitting proposals is 21 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Land Reform in Cities of the Republic of Latvia”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Arthur Tom Ples.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U228	In the Commission's examination of these amendments to the law, we have received one proposal. It is a proposal from the committee responsible. And it is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U229	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U230	I call for support at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U231	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Land Reform in Cities of the Republic of Latvia” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U232	March 21st.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U233	The deadline for submitting proposals is 21 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law “On State and Local Government Land Property Rights and Their Strengthening in Land Registers”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Arthur Tom Ples.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U234	The Commission received seven proposals for the relevant amendments to this law. 1. is a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U235	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U236	2. It is also the proposal of the commission responsible and it is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U237	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U238	3. is the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U239	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U240	4. There is also a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns. This is supported and included in proposal 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U241	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U242	5. The Commission's proposal is in charge and is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U243	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U244	6. is the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns. This is partly supported and included in proposal 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U245	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U246	And the Commission's proposal is in charge. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U247	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U248	I call for support at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U249	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the law “On State and Local Government Land Property Rights and Their Strengthening in Land Registers” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U250	March 21st.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U251	The deadline for submitting proposals also for this draft law - 21 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Secret”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U252	Hello, colleagues! At its meeting on 5 March, the Commission supported the draft law of the National Security Commission ‘Amendment to the Law on State Secret’, which provides that in the future the Chairman of the Central Electoral Commission should have access to state secrecy. The draft law is necessary to give the Chair of the Central Electoral Commission the right to obtain information in full during the preparation and conduct of the elections, allowing to follow possible risks and threats that may compromise or otherwise adversely affect the electoral process and pose a threat to national security. Until now, no such requirement has been set in the legislation, but given the increasing global security risks, including interference in the electoral processes of other countries, it has been concluded that it is necessary to establish the right of the CEC Chair to receive detailed, classified information during the respective electoral periods. In practice, there have been cases in which there has been a need to provide classified information to the CEC, and due to the absence of this tolerance there have been corresponding burdens. Access to national secrecy may also be necessary in the process of examination of the candidates applied for. The National Security Commission has addressed the responsible commission, asking to guide the draft law as urgent, and the Commission has supported such a necessity, wishing to contribute to the fact that the new Central Electoral Commission, which will be convened 13. The family could start work fully as soon as possible. Therefore, on behalf of the Commission, I ask that the draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U253	So we must vote to make the draft law urgent. Mrs Stepanenko wants to talk about the recognition of urgency? So we are starting a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. The urgency, huh? So... Just a minute! So one of the Members may speak about the urgent recognition of the draft law, one of them against. You will obviously speak against. ‘ Against” - Member Jūlija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U254	Dear colleagues, As a very large proportion of the Members of the Saeima are new (Inter-Charter) , I would like to tell you about how and what urgent draft laws are going to take place. From its small experience in Parliament: 12. The family urgently had to deal with draft laws mainly when, for example, there was a mistake to correct when people suffered from some form of tax change or when some new drugs appeared and were to be added to the list of banned substances. Of course, urgency has always been supported. But there is also a second category of urgent draft laws - those that may be adopted to... I do not want to think anything wrong, but perhaps it is adopted to circumvent the President's institution. Because that's the case with urgent draft laws... if they include different norms, not only, for example, the list of banned substances, the President of Latvia has no right to send, and there is no possibility to send such draft laws for re-reading. And in fact (Deep. I. Lībiņa-Egnere: “It’s not true! Melo!’ ) for us there is nothing unexpected about the elections to the European Parliament. This is a measure already known in advance. And to move the urgent draft law now just because we suddenly realized that we have the elections to the European Parliament? I think there is no need for urgency in this case. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I call on us not to support urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U255	Thank you. Will anyone talk about urgency? ‘ For” applied to speak Member Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U256	I'm very brief. What I want to say is that it is a matter of urgency, not only because there are elections to the European Parliament, but above all because we have the presidential election of the CEC itself. And it is desirable that the new President should already have the right to a national secret and be able to work fully from the start of these elections to the European Parliament. So that we keep up with the time schedule... I therefore call on the Commission to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U257	First of all, we will vote in favour of declaring the draft law urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U258	Oh, for urgency. It's okay. Sory. Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U259	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Secret” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 59, 20, abstaining. The draft law has been declared urgent. And the chairman of the commission called...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U260	Yes, I am calling for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U261	... support at first reading. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Secret” at first reading! Please vote... I had applied for... I am sorry, Mr Gobzem had not applied in the debate? Please call again! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Secret” at first reading! Please vote mode! ( Milestones.) Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U262	The deadline for submitting proposals is 8 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U263	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 8 March this year. And consideration of the Saeima sitting? Just a moment, Mr. Rancan!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U264	Review at the Saeima sitting on 14 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U265	Review at the Saeima sitting on 14 March this year. Thank you. On the agenda - consideration of draft decisions. Draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Religious Organisations (No. (56/Lp13) for second reading until 1 April 2019.’ Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Religious Organisations (No. 56/Lp13) for the second reading until 1 April 2019.’ Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law” (No. ( 141/Lp13) for second reading until 1 July 2019.’ Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” (No. 141/Lp13) for the second reading until 1 July 2019.’ Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals” of the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Notaries” (No. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Notaries” (No. 142/Lp13) for the second reading until 1 July 2019.’ Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - Draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals (No. 178/Lp13) for the second reading until 12 March 2019.’ Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the Rule of Procedure of the Saeima (No. 178/Lp13) for the second reading until 12 March 2019’. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. The agenda is an examination of the own-initiative proposals. Draft decision “On the abolition of personal income tax for one dependant in families with at least four children, as well as personal income tax deductions for family dependants with three children”. Let us start a debate. The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U266	Dear colleagues, Thank you for putting this issue on the agenda, because beautiful, prosperous, healthy and full families must be one of the things that every one of us is proud of. We already have families like this, but there should be more. We have always been a numerically small nation, but that does not mean that we must continue to disappear. On the contrary! Everything must be done to make Latvians more and more. Looking at how other countries are struggling with similar problems, the Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban, who has presented a plan to increase the birth rate, which includes the abolition of personal income tax on mothers of four children and the cancellation of debts to three children's families, should be a positive example. This type of decision protects the nation and contributes not only to its numbers but also to its prosperity. And now I'm going to ask each of you a rhetorical question: what is our goal? Create conditions for our citizens to emigrate for socio-economic reasons so that third-country nationals can be imported? In my opinion, the interests and protection of the people of their country must be the primary consideration. In a moment's time, when we vote in favour of this draft decision, we will provide support to families who already deserve it. Although small, this is a very important issue of attitude, because the fiscal impact is very insignificant, because, unfortunately, there are very few families in Latvia with three or more children. Only 1.8 percent of all households have three or more children. By helping families of many children to keep a larger share of their income, reducing the tax burden both with a reasonable discount on personal income tax, as well as releasing at least one dependant from payment of this tax, in the state budget... In general, only 1.8 percent of all families have three or more children. By granting them any of these tax incentives, the budget will not be so big as not to be able to find the means to close it, saving someone, perhaps at the expense of unnecessary, large purchases. It is quite clear that, even after the introduction of such a tax relief policy, the number of such families will not grow so fast that we cannot find the means to support large families. There will soon be a process of looking at and deciding on the budget. I am convinced that, by changing priorities, we would be able to find funding not only for large families but also for many other initiatives that would contribute directly and indirectly to improving the socio-economic situation of society as a whole. We must encourage people to create offspring that will be born, grown, lived and old in Latvia and will enjoy it here. But to be able to do so, parents need not only to love but also to dress, feed, and train, all of which costs money. The government must create equal conditions for every citizen of Latvia, especially families of many children, so that parents can earn money to provide several children. It could be said that you can simply work more, but it is not possible to earn more in our country by working more, and that is wrong. Child rearing is a responsibility, since the task of parents is to raise happy and full members of society who are able to give something to society. It takes a lot of time and strength. We cannot demand everything from our parents, so national legislation must be acceptable. Finally. Let us remember that by increasing household income, we give them the opportunity to be responsible for their use! Families will shop and this will create demand for services, which will provide jobs that will allow households to earn. The economy is connected to all of this. And the state should ensure effective tax redistribution and simple and clear rules. Let us support many children's families today so that Latvia and Latvians do not disappear from the map of the world! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U267	Name to Member Raiv Dzintar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U268	Hello again, colleagues! I would like to put forward some arguments a little bit so that we can understand what the decision is about and what the vote is about. So, on the substance of the idea. Last time we talked about the form, how the idea came to us, but now there would be an invitation to talk about the substance. One of the essence is, of course, what Mrs Sprude has already mentioned in her speech, namely, the fiscal space, how much it costs. You said you didn't pay much... Little, much - it's a relative concept. It would be good if the author of the proposal said how much it costs, because then we could have a better quality discussion on who to take out where to get the money to implement one or the other. But let's imagine that the funds have been found, there's a certain amount of finance needed to implement this idea... what the signatories to Mr. Gobzem have brought before him! The question is: is this the most effective way to help families of three or four children, to support them and to promote those demographic goals that Mr Gobzem also spoke about at last sitting? My firm conviction is: no, it's not the most effective way. Why? Because it will affect the smallest part of families with four children, and it is precisely those with the highest income. I mean, for whom at the moment relief for dependants is not covered by this amount of personal income tax... Currently, we have 2017 data at our disposal. In 2017, relief for dependants was 175 euros, in 2018 - 200 euros, now - 235 euros, and next year - already 250 euros. So if there are four dependants, then a thousand euros is the part that already... which is not subject to tax, plus a non-taxable minimum. So, in fact, we are extending these amendments to the rich and very wealthy and very, very wealthy people. After 2017, we calculated that around 20 percent of the richest large families could be the ones that we will help in this way, given that the unlimited minimum is now in place. I mentioned Ainar Shlesser today, didn't I? Ainars Shlesser's family will definitely be one of those to whom we're now... If we have found the funds, then let us give them help, and let us promote demographics in this way. We're also on the Imrant Debtor last time (Dep. U. Plant intermediates.) ... We also talked about Imants Debtor. Imants counted... Mr. Planty, you were a minister recently... Imants estimated that, taking into account the income from real estate and the remuneration of the Saeima Member, he paid personal income tax of 12 thousand euros last year. So if we were to implement what the present applicants are offering, we would say: “Please! The country has a lot of money. Mr. Debtor, you have a thousand euros a month in addition to us!” Instead of helping families who really have less income, we have repeatedly mentioned poverty in the debate today on the Ombudsman's report. Families with many children - this is the category that is most at risk of poverty. And the measures adopted by the previous Saeima were specifically aimed at trying to reduce inequalities in order to help those families most in need. At the same time, there is this offer: if we have the funds to give them back to the wealthier families. It would, of course, be best for you, Mr Gobzem, not to come and talk, but to have followed my call last time and addressed experts in this area, to have addressed the people to whom this is most relevant. Because, of course, we can find a large-scale family to whom it will be beneficial, but there are associations which unite large-scale families and which have the most legitimate right to express opinions that could be more beneficial to them and less beneficial to them. I do not know whether you, Mr Gobzem, have consulted Leonid Mucenieks, a member of the Council for Demographic Affairs. Leonīds Mucenieks is the head of the Association of Multichild Family Associations in Latvia, and we asked him when we were preparing for this meeting: if funds have been found and if there is a decision in this way to support families with a high income... Rather, look for ways to support families with a greater need? Of course, he was absolutely convinced that this system that you offer is not the right choice. I do not, of course, want to return to the negotiations on the objectives of the proposal and say that it is dispelled from the finger, because in fact, with all due respect, it is not dispelled from the finger - it is taken as an example of Hungary. Hungary has developed a seven-step demographic recovery programme. However, this measure is different in nuance, it was specifically targeted at mothers, but let us take into account that it is a complex solution and that it is just one of the measures that have been introduced. However, this is not what should start under limited funding conditions. So thank you for the discussion. The national association is always pleased that we are discussing the substance when we talk about such an important goal, but in this case I will allow you to say that the instrument that has been chosen is not what we would be prepared to sign up to. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U269	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U270	The National Association likes to bend the name of Ainars Schlesser, and probably the reason is quite simple. Anša Pūpolas, the candidate Member of the European Parliament, is registered at Kuldīgas iela 50-2 as Baltic Center of Visual Researches. The address is directly related to Ainars Šleser's think tank and political associate Juris Lujans, who has been registered and registered at the same address. Therefore, it is understandable why you remember so many names of Shleser. But, Raivi Dzintar, I understand that, as years go by, I want to go in such a bureaucratic way as not doing things and talk about the support of large families. Your party member Imants Debtor is, by the way, Prime Minister's adviser on demographic issues. Where are his proposals from this parliamentary troop? Where are the legislative initiatives and proposals every week, knowing that this will be the issue today? There's no such thing. Where's Imants Debtor? The other thing I want to say in this regard. That question is, by the way, only a draft decision addressed to the Cabinet of Ministers and directly to Imants Debtor - to carry out an analysis, to introduce the best, best, best, solution, not to disagree. You're in position! After all, you must find the best solution, not go on the parliamentary platform and point out that the opposition has not put you in front of what you cannot figure out for yourself. That is the problem! You need to think about many children's families. Another thing that needs to be said about many children's families. That rhetoric that came from you, Raivi Dzintar, from the trampoline... Oh, horror! The rich families of many children will also have personal income tax discounts! As if it were some sin that people with many children might be rich. In my view, it would only be good if all families with children, especially those with more than three children, had rich families. This would mean that their children would have better education, better food, better medical care and everything else. I think it is time we changed our thinking. The time has come for us to change our thinking, to move from a process that takes four years with reservations that we can't do anything, we can't figure out anything... And then, before the elections, we put a great deal of achievement in front of the public that we have presented the rich gifts of more than ten euros... Take a Courageous Step! Maybe you need to change your thinking, take this brave step? And maybe you also need to be interested in those many children's families, where people work in private business? I understand, Raivi Dzintar, it really is perhaps a personal insult, but you, as a person who has no great experience in the private sector and who has mainly benefited from taxpayers' money, have no understanding of what constitutes the most important expenditure in families working in the private sector. And this most important edition is income tax payments. Hence, paying income tax to those who work would motivate them to work more primarily. It would not be a bald allowance that many times in society is talking about, that we are granting benefits, that I am sorry, that there are alcoholic families or other disadvantaged families, and that the families are being provided with benefits. We should change thinking, move from benefit thinking to motivational thinking. And tax breaks are a motivational thinking. It motivates to work, it motivates to earn more, and it motivates to create more children. In Latvia birth rate decreases with each year. In Latvia, the number of people is decreasing every year. We have the Prime Minister's adviser on demographic issues, Imants Debtor. Today, however, he is not here to discuss this issue. ( Interface: “You start again! ” ) Today he has not tabled any proposals to discuss this issue! There's a feeling that Imants Debtor is in his current position only for his two thousand euros or how much is there because of his high salary or for any other reason. Perhaps also in order to be afraid of something we do not know, because demographic issues do not move things away, especially from this parliamentary troupe to defend large families. Nor does this proposal mean immediate expenditure from the state budget, but a sensible, balanced, pragmatic and constructive analysis of this issue, so that this regulation can be implemented within a year or two. What are you against, Raivi Dzintar? Against the fact that such a discussion is taking place at all! You have opposed this proposal only because it has been tabled by the opposition member Gobzem and have been sued Shleser, who is addressable with Louise, your... Member's candidate for the position, Pūpola firm. Maybe we need to change our attitude towards the people of Latvia. I am sorry that I am talking so emotionally, but the bureaucracy that is in this Parliament when it comes to this issue and when we are talking about large families... Most of the Members of the coalition in this House, when we came to this issue, did not listen, go into the ground and discussed it, but spoke loudly to one another. It shows your attitude towards what you think about families with children in Latvia. This shows your attitude... what you actually think. If you were interested in families with several children... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “During the Ombudsman’s report... “)... in this particular case, if you were interested in the issues in question, you would be careful and careful about this, and all the coalition Members would have brought as many proposals as possible for us to resolve this issue this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U271	Name to Member Raiv Dzintar for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U272	Mr. Gobzem! I will not try to beat you in the performance you have just shown. You talked about a lot of things. You talked about Ansi Pūpolas, you spoke about the Imants Debtor, who you have not mentioned yet, but you have not rejected the arguments I made before, during the debate. I think that I gave you an opportunity not to make a theatre, not to fill a room with something perhaps very pleasant, which is pleasant to you individually, but not to others, but to do something that would encourage the constructive work of the Saeima. If you are willing to talk about the substance of the proposal, we are ready to do it, but you have to look for other partners in order to match your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U273	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U274	Cool Dzintar! Since you and a naked torse stood by the parliament, it has taken some time, but the problem that has arisen in that time has become a bureaucrat! Not the solver, but the bureaucrat. And this is the thinking I'm talking about. The opposition does not need to pray to the Debtor or to anyone else to resolve the issues of many children’s families. All this is a task for Parliament. And it is also a priority for you, the National Associations, because you have mentioned it as one of your ideologies. You were the first to make proposals, not to shame me for the theatre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U275	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U276	To make such a draft decision, you have to sit for half an hour, maybe an hour at your computer, fix it... but it already does not provide a solution. Next week it can be submitted that no tax is payable after the third child. Other Members will come forward with a proposal that no tax should be paid after the second child. At the end of the day, one will have surpassed all the others - it will be presented that no one at all has to pay taxes. How can we ensure this? Think of yourself! The invitation was to look rationally, to offer what you see as the way to get to the solution, not just to make a funny paper in half an hour and then to look for your thumbs on the Patik portal on Facebook with this beautiful, emotional talk.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U277	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U278	Dear colleagues, I really call on you to stop fearing the oligarchs' children. They too are born children, and they also receive benefits. And the oligarch also receives reduced VAT on fruit and vegetables. The oligarchs also buy cucumbers. What are we going to do with this now? We discussed yesterday in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission that it would be appropriate to reduce VAT on cars, and one of the arguments there was: Oh, or, one oligarch will buy a car with reduced VAT, so let us not reduce it! I really do not know how we managed to achieve reduced VAT on fruit and vegetables... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “ZZS Lobby!” ) But, honourable colleagues, if we are talking about the draft decision, it is indeed a call, task for the Cabinet to take the necessary steps to revitalise this political initiative. And that's just 1.8 percent - those households with three or more children. If you think we're going to be losers, then you're wrong. I therefore call on you to really change this thinking and stop being afraid of looking back at two or three people who may live in this country at a higher rate than others. Because if you look only at those people, you will not be able to change anything in this country. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U279	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U280	Colleagues! The invitation to the Cabinet of Ministers to do something more than that. This call came here mainly because the bill... Well, like three times... ‘3 × 500’ rejected... transfer to commissions... Because Members of the Saeima, if they come from the opposition, are simply not given the opportunity to work on these issues in the commissions. Well, this is a call... Well, then... if not us, do it yourself in the Cabinet, come with this offer. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U281	The name of Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U282	Colleagues! There were also statements that we were afraid of being rich families, rich parents. Not at all! We want, of course, to reduce social inequalities, we want the wealth of as many people as possible, so that we have a middle class, which we are so lacking in society. However, we also understand very well that this proposal, which has been said, will pay the public budget something. And if it costs something, then we need to be sure that we reach those who have the greatest needs. In the context of the Ombudsman's report... It was said that already today half of the workers with four dependants cannot benefit from the existing facilities because their income is less high. If there are more than four children, this percentage is even higher. So most of the... At least half... Most of them are already unable to benefit from the existing incentives. And if it costs the public budget something, but we will not reach those who need the most, then the question is: do we really focus on helping the most vulnerable and reducing poverty? That is the question. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U283	Name to Member Aldim Adamovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U284	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! Hello! I fully support Raivy Dzintar because we know that he is his own father of three children. And I think I can speak fully here, too, because I have four children in my family and my wife is a teacher. ( Internouncing call.) It has to be said that, at the moment, they will really be the priorities of the new government for the 2020 budget already - teachers' salaries and support for families with children. But we don't need to deal with populism right now. In his previous budget... I think that the former Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, who I see have not signed this proposal, have fully participated. ( Intercretion: “The Prime Minister is! ” ) And now... At the moment, without knowing how much it costs, we offer to decide on these issues. Raivis Dzintars very accurately reflected that the three-year plan... And even the fourth year... that each year the non-taxable minimum per child is increased. This year it is really 230... so if there are three or four children, multiply by three or four. And that's how it goes. As far as possible... in budgetary terms, we will do so and we will support it. I call for this to be rejected at the moment.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U285	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the abolition of personal income tax for one dependant in families with at least four children, as well as personal income tax discounts for family dependants with three children”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 31, for - 49, for - 1. No decision has been taken. And on the agenda - draft decision on a 30 per cent reduction in the number of employees in the public sector. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U286	Given that I was prevented by the honourable Speaker of the Saeima from using a perceived audio on this subject, I will quote Mr Bordan from the New Conservative Party before the elections in front of the audience. I quote: “We will reduce the number of officials in the country.” When I said to my colleagues that the New Conservative Party would reduce the number of officials by 30 percent, they said that the goal was good, but that is not possible. What a fool! Look first how big... Let us first assess whether there really is a need for all the officials who are currently working and not only in the country, but also in the municipalities. We are talking about the whole country. And yes, we will go to the centralisation of the country and to the reduction of the number of ministries. Can we afford state apparatus, such a bureaucratic mechanism, with so many people and as expensive as it is today? Jānis Bordāns says (I quote): “We can’t. Cosmetic correction, with simple replacement, will not work. And now I will tell you what we will do specifically. We will reduce the number of ministries. We will leave eight of the 13 existing ministries. The government will be assigned a mission to be fulfilled." It was said by John Bordan before the elections before the people, almost without blinking their eyes. Today, when you are in the government of the New Conservative Party, the question arises: where is the government mission that must be fulfilled? Where, then, is the 30 percent reduction in the state apparatus? Where, then, is the reduction in the number of ministries from 13 to eight that you promised the voters? Because if you had not promised, none of you here in this Parliament would sit. What I want to say about this promise and the failure of this promise... the answer is very simple. This is a promise from cardboard Members and a lot of cardboard. And that's what I'm supposed to see. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U287	The name is Sandy Riekstin. ( Internoint.) (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U288	Colleagues! I have already said that, but I will repeat it again. (Laughter) You call us a cardboard party. Where this cardboard comes from, I don't know, but, well, go on! However, I will quote: “There is no way back, either everything or nothing. Either on 7 October we will form a government, or on the morning of 7 October I will collect suitcases and leave Latvia with my family." (Laughter) Impressions. Thank you very much. In this interview Ventspils.lv expressed, among other things, Gobzems. ( Internexion: “Watch the motion! ”) ) And there is a remark: “It is true that Gobzem did not create a government on 7 October, but did not collect the suitcases.” It's about promises. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U289	Colleagues, I call for a debate on the draft decision... ( Internouncing call.) The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U290	Sandis Riekstins is a Member who has simply never debated draft decisions and draft laws because he does not know how to do so. (Laughter) But if we are talking about this issue, I can promise the public that when that day comes - and that day comes! - When I direct the government, we will reduce the number of state apparatus and ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U291	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U292	Dear colleagues, I would ask you to end this cacophony, which is here from this pub of the last five minutes. In principle, what I hear is a completely unspecific sound patchwork. And I'd be ashamed, let's assume, if I were to have some kind of speech in the ZZS just applauded. I'd be ashamed! Gobzem, I understand you have a child in a hospital. Then maybe you should go to that child instead of doing any kind of stupidity here. ( Internexion: “Watch the motion! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U293	Colleagues! The agenda shall include a specific draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U294	On the agenda, we have a draft decision on a 30% reduction in the number of public sector employees. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “You promised, Neighbouring, to reduce the number of people working in the public sector! You have betrayed all your constituents.” The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) As I said, with this cacophony we could end today's sitting and (Minimum: ‘ Talk about what you have promised!’ ) to stop all of this. And I don't see the real... I see no real reason why 30 percent of teachers should be laid off. “ You went to Baltezer! ” ) I see no real reason why 30 percent of fire-fighters should be fired... I don't understand why, let's assume, Plant's wife should end her job, say, in the Ministry of Welfare as the chief accountant. I do not see a real reason for that. If you have a reason, say it. If we don't, we end this sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U295	The name of Member Juta Stricky.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U296	Reducing the number of officials and workers is a task for every ministry. In each institution. And we will do this by continuously looking at, carrying out audits and reducing the number of staff who perform duplicated and unnecessary functions. But, Gobzem, the longer you speak here and repeat the same thing on every issue (Interface.) , the greater the number of the Saeima staff who will be forced to listen to and decrypt the protocol. Stop increasing the number of Saeima employees with your empty talk! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U297	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U298	In my opinion, what has just been said by the previous speaker, Mrs Strique, was a complete point: that every ministry should start with itself. And especially in the area of traffic, where there is now talk of an increase in the number of members of the Council. On the contrary. This draft Decision. In my opinion, this also ties in with the previous draft decision, which was voted against by the Saeima. And so I think it would be absolutely normal if this draft decision were not supported; then next week we could submit a precise proposal to reduce the number of ministries. It's about eight or six... There are several political parties that have promised to do so. But at the moment it seems that if you want to reduce something somewhere, then they are only municipalities, but everything in the state administration is beautiful, nothing needs to be done there, and let us live further than before. On the contrary, on the contrary! We see a number of cases where - quite the contrary - there is an increase in the number of staff in the restaurant, as I have already mentioned in relation to these councils. The time will come, the time will show - but there will already be other councils where the number of employees will increase, maybe even new ones will be created, where, as has been heard, will put people in... It goes completely the opposite of what was promised to the voters before the elections. In my opinion, this is not the right one, and such a draft decision is completely in place. I call on you to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U299	Name to Member Uldis Augums.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U300	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, If we look back in history... The 2009 crisis, when we worked very hard to cut public administration in particular... Unfortunately, during the post-crisis period, with changes in governments, changes in ministers and, possibly, changes in some functions, the government's share of the government has risen rapidly enough. There are, of course, many parties who, perhaps not directly during the pre-elections, have promised to reduce public administration, reduce the number of ministries. These functions must probably be added somewhere in order for the country to function normally. But now, looking at the administrative expenditure, Mr. Neighbours... In addition to educators, there are indeed opportunities for us to work and reduce public administration. There are, of course, many very strong people in public administration, who have done a hundred times more in their work than Mr. Kaimiņš, sitting here in the Saeima, pants and not doing anything really. So that I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U301	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U302	Many think that we will not keep our promises. That's not the case. While working at the Ministry of Transport, we can see the results of previous years. We can see that the FAO has worked hard, we can see how SAVE is working, we can see how the cultivation takes place at the expense of ourselves, our loved ones and others, but not the people. And believe me, there will be reductions! ( Interface: “You have already increased by two! ” ) The first to be reduced will be the schemes... nexus, charters and others. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Švecova: “When? When?’ Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U303	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U304	At first, I thought it was a joke, and then it was more serious. I understand that one of the promises - to cut by 30 percent - will be realised... Juta Strīķe understood that it would be implemented by reducing the number of ministerial officials under his responsibility. At the expense of the common government, there will be quite a reduction in the three, but good. That promise will only be fulfilled. The second promise - to get to eight ministries - will, I understand, be made by closing them at the end of the three. At least we'll be close to eight. But if it is more serious, then it is clear that we have a hugely expanded state apparatus. I think that we have built the capabilities of our small country, as we say, cardboard base ships, even though we would have a single motor boat. Latvia's advantage is the size given to each country. We are not a large country, but we have one big plus - a small country can move fast. We can make quick decisions, we know each other well at one hand’s pressure. Everyone in Latvia can find how he knows the Prime Minister. This is our advantage - to move quickly, with a small state apparatus. That's 30 percent. If we are serious, I think that this is the wrong linear approach. It is wrong, neither from a bid point of view nor from a realistic point of view. It is wrong what we have already experienced in the crisis - that linearly the ministries turned people away. I can name a number of ministries where the best new shots were cut, leaving places for bureaucrats. In fact, the case should be looked at on the other side. Why have we imposed such bureaucratic burdens? Why are we sitting in government, forgiveness, often with total folly? For example, we are adopting existing regulations once again in our legislation, although we cannot ignore them because they are already in force and above our legislation. Why do we not put government sittings at the heart of a serious economic challenge to debate and deal with poverty, which we have talked about today in relation to the Ombudsman's report? In fact, I think that everyone who has been in contact with public administration knows that one capable person is capable of weighing up 30... in a more correct way, not even weighing up... It's better not to have 30 if they're putting obstacles rather than helping them? I myself managed three offices of the Foreign Minister. I remember one other minister came and said that he didn't know anything in this ministry. I wrote... I said: “There are 10 people. If one of them has signed the document, it can be sent out safely, but if one of them has not signed 10, you can sit down and go deeper.” In fact, that ministry was actually led by 10 people - in real life. So that the idea of cutting is right, just -- it's not linear... It is not necessary to start by reducing the number of people; it is necessary to start by - what are we doing at all, why are we doing and ultimately keeping that sail? As in the forest sector... Where are we actually going to be in 50 years' time? How will we earn, and how will this state apparatus help us to do so? We can laugh, and I'm shitting, too. But in fact, I would like us to put the issue of the optimisation of public administration to the commissions and work seriously here - irrespective of the colours that accept and what calls ourselves... Because it's in the interests of the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U305	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on a 30 percent reduction in the number of public sector employees! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 31, against - 48, refraining from - 1. No decision has been taken. Honourable Members! The agenda of the sitting has been examined. I must inform you about the answers to Members' questions scheduled today. The Minister of Justice of Krauze, Dauge, Vucaņa and Valaiņš, Janis Bordans, and the Member of the Minister of Justice of Zariņš, Krišāns, Klementjeva, Kabanovas and Orlovs, Janis Bordans, regarding the “independent legal opinion” implemented by the Ministry of Economics in connection with the information report on the regulation, monitoring and treatment of electricity mandatory procurement and guaranteed charges for installed capacity reviewed at the Cabinet of Ministers meeting of 29 January 2019 following the decision of the Saeima of 10 January 2019.’ The written replies to these two questions are not satisfactory. The Minister informs that he is unable to attend the oral response as he is on a mission to Brussels. On the question of Member Reizniece-Ozola, Dūklava, Augulis, Kučinskas and Bergmanis, Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš on the intolerant attitude of the government towards payment of envelope pay. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Prime Minister informs that he cannot attend the oral response because he is on a visit to the Republic of Lithuania. Consequently, the answers to Members' questions will not be available today. Members have been asked about the increase in pension income by Members Krishāns, Orlovs, Lochmele-Lunova, Kucins and Tutin. We give it to Minister for Welfare Ramona Petraviča to respond. Please call me! Please register the Members! Time for notification. The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U306	I am very pleased to see those Members who are interested in cooperation with the Netherlands in the Yellow House right after the meeting to set up a cooperation group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U307	Name of the Saeima Secretary Maria Golubeva. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U308	Not registered: Arvils Asheradens, Aldis Blumbergs, Boriss Cilevičs, Ilmārs Dūritis, Kaspars Ģirgens, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Andrejs Klementyevs, Rihards Kols, Ieva Krapāne, Maris Kučinskis, Inese Lībiņa-Egne, Jānis Urbanovičs and Ivars Zariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U309	And another word for a statement has been asked by Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U310	Dear colleagues, In the yellow room, immediately after the Dutch group, there will be a group for cooperation with the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-07-PT13-523-U311	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
