ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take a seat in the Chamber so that we can start the sitting of the Saeima on 2 May 2019. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft decision “On the dismissal of Inese Sniķere, a judge of the Riga City Vidzeme suburb court from the position of a judge”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs is asking for the draft decision on the release of Gunta Līdaka from the post of member of the National Electronic Media Council to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft decision “On Extension of the Term of Submission of Proposals by the Law “Law on the Rent of Accommodations” (No. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. On the agenda - reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “On the Tenth Additional Protocol to the Constitution of the World Postal Union” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “On the Additional Protocol to the World Postal Convention” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “On the Second Additional Protocol to the General Rules of Procedure of the World Postal Union” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Civil Service” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the granting of leave. On 24 and 25 April this year, Mr Vladimir Nikonov was granted unpaid leave. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Vladimir Nikonov requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 24 and 25 April of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. Mr Gundaras Many was given unpaid leave on 2 May this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Gundars Dauge to grant him unpaid leave on 2 May of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to Member Viktor Valaini on 2 May of this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Viktoras Valaiņš requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 2 May of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to Mr Raivis Dzintars on 2 and 3 May of this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Raivy Dzintar, requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 2 and 3 May of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For the granting of unpaid leave to Member Valeria Agechin from 7 May to 9 May this year. Please call me! We will be voting for the granting of unpaid leave to Member Valeria Agešiin from 7 May to 9 May this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The leave has been granted. For granting unpaid leave to Member Edmunds Teirumnieks from 13 May to 16 May this year. Please call me! We will be voting to grant unpaid leave to Member Edmunds Teirums from 13 May to 16 May this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The leave has been granted. For the granting of unpaid leave to Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova on 9 May this year. Please call me! We will be voting for the granting of unpaid leave to Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova on 9 May this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The leave has been granted. For granting unpaid leave to a Member Ivars Pugams on 9 May this year. Please call me! We will be voting to grant unpaid leave to Member Ivars Pugams on 9 May this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The leave has been granted. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision “On the dismissal of Inese Sniķers from the position of judge of Riga city Vidzeme suburb court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U2	Good morning, dear colleagues! During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 30 April, the draft decision “On the dismissal of Inese Sniķere, a judge of the Riga City Vidzeme suburb court from the office of a judge” was reviewed. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, on 10 May 2019 I call on Inese Sniķeri, a judge of the Riga City Vidzeme suburb court, to be released from office of a judge at his own will due to health condition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U3	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the dismissal of Inese Sniķere, a judge of Riga City Vidzeme suburb court from the office of a judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. And on the agenda - draft decision on the release of Gunta Līdaka from the post of member of the National Electronic Media Council. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš. ( Internouncing call.) I can see it doesn't exist. Is the rapporteur in the hall? The rapporteur was not in the Chamber and the agenda was moved to the end of the sitting. ( The utterance: “Watch! ”) ) On the agenda - consideration of draft laws. Draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Procedure and Time of Entry into Force and Application of the Renewed Civil Law of the Republic of Latvia of 1937”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U4	Good morning! Thus, the third reading discusses “Amendment to the Law “On the Time and Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of the Renewed Civil Law of the Republic of Latvia of 1937, the Rights of Heritage and the Rights of Cases”. One proposal has been received for the third reading. Applicant - Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U5	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U6	There are no other proposals. Please support the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U7	Please call me! We will vote on the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Time and Application of the Entering into Force and Procedure of the Renewed Civil Law of the Republic of Latvia of 1937”, third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Real Estate State Cadastre”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jānis Iesalnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U8	Good morning, colleagues! Six proposals have been received at the third reading, all of which concern the inclusion of land-book offices in district (city) courts. As a result, 1. - a proposal from the Legal Commission amending the title of the draft law, the word "amendment" to a multiple. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U9	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U10	2. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U11	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U12	3. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U13	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U14	4. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U15	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U16	5. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U17	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U18	And also 6. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U19	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U20	Please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U21	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Real Estate State Cadastre Law” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. On the agenda - Draft Law on the Market in Financial Instruments Act, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U22	Dear President, Honourable Members! The next six draft laws are linked to the relevant European Union directive, which aims to improve the situation with regard to the protection of the rights of shareholders, especially small shareholders. It is Directive 2017/828 of 17 May 2017 amending the previous Directive. And this package includes a number of blocks, such as shareholder identification, transparency of asset managers and proxy advisors, shareholders' right to vote for directors' remuneration (this is a very important addition!) , involvement of shareholders in the approval of related party transactions. And... Yes. Well, in fact, these are the main tasks. And then, in more detail, with the other draft laws... I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U23	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U24	The deadline is 17 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U25	The deadline for submitting proposals is 17 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Private Pension Funds”, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U26	Honourable Members! The draft law “Amendments to the law on private pension funds” time affects each of us. And a large part of Latvia's population, who are involved in pension funds at different levels. The question is why these funds have often not been effective enough... from various commissions... We have also examined these issues in the sub- commission, including the question why these commissions are several times smaller in developed countries than in Latvia, but the profits for these funds are higher. And that's why... The implementation of this Directive is intended to remedy the lack of whole lines. Funds such as private pension funds, insurance companies... It's life insurance... and managers of various assets may be powerful shareholders in public limited liability companies. And it is also important for ordinary shareholders or fund members to be informed about which share companies these funds have invested. So now the right of fund members to obtain information from companies that may be... in which the fund may not exist but may participate in the acquisition of shares issued by those public limited liability companies in the future. And any information related to it will in future be able to be requested by the members of the Fund. A so-called engagement policy... And one more thing. The draft provides that a report on the implementation of the policy of engagement... on how the management of the fund has implemented... Why... What have been the objectives... why it has entered one or other public limited liability company... So, every year... Not when you want to, but by 1 August each year, you will have to provide a detailed overview of the policy of engagement. The directive also requires the incorporation of a pension fund... to make public information on the adequacy of the investment strategy to pension scheme liabilities and investments in pension schemes. Often... let's say you go to either the bank or... dealing with these funds as appropriate and telling you their strategy there, but there is no report on whether its activity has been in line with that strategy over the year or over the longer term. It may be that, for example, the fund in question has acquired very different shares or that there have been other interests. So this is a very important addition... Directives. And these amendments... Yes, and another thing that may need to be considered in the second reading. We were also informed about this at the commission meeting when the law was discussed. It's pretty... Well, you can't say it's burdensome, but... If a member of the fund wants to change the fund, he has to go there, it takes some time. It should be considered that switching funds could make it easier for a participant to switch funds, as is the case, for example, in the area of telecommunications. If you do not like the existing operator, you register with a new operator, and he himself settles the connection with the previous one. So there is an option that we could put such a correction into second reading - you find something better or you think there is a better manager of a pension fund, you go to him, you get all the documents, and then the manager settles the obligations with your previous one. This is quite essential, and I think this is the most important law from the whole package. I call for support at first reading. Proposals are due by 17 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U27	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the law on private pension funds” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U28	May 17th.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U29	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 17 May this year. On the agenda: Draft law on Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U30	The principle is the same as that of the previous one. Consequently, the directive obliges Member States to ensure an engagement policy developed by asset managers, and the draft provides for the case - where the manager of an alternative investment fund invests funds in shares in a public limited liability company, the manager must develop an engagement policy and provide all the information in the same way as in the previous situation as pension funds. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U31	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U32	May 17th.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U33	The deadline for submitting proposals is 17 May this year. On the agenda: Draft Law Amending the Law on Audit Services, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U34	Honourable Members! Consequently, the draft law ‘Amendment to the Audit Services Act’. This amendment is intended to address such a rather sensitive topic so far - in what way the members can control salaries and commissions. One is the question of the manager's remuneration report... so that the participants do not complain that they have not had any sayings. As I said, the commissions are too large, the wages are large. Perhaps for a moment the fund in question is working on losses, but managers and management have a very high income. The participants will now be able to control it. The Directive requires a reduction in the additional cost of carrying out verification procedures outside the audit of the annual report and various other improvements. This is also a relatively important draft package. I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U35	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on audit services! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U36	May 17th.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U37	The deadline for submitting proposals is 17 May this year. On the agenda: Draft Law Amending the Law on Investment Management Companies, first reading. Mr Aleksandr Kirštein, Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U38	Honourable Members! In addition to all the previous laws, the case has already been clarified that investments can be in public limited liability companies with their registered office outside Latvia - the Member States of the European Union or the countries of the European Economic Area - and the shares of these public limited liability companies are included on the regulated market of the Member States. So if the fund is somehow linked... and has made these investments outside Latvia... must also provide all information on the activities of those public limited liability companies required by the members. I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U39	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading draft law on Amendments to the Law on Investment Management Companies! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U40	May 17th.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U41	The deadline for submitting proposals is 17 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Insurance and Reinsurance”, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U42	Honourable Members! All the above shall also apply to insurance and reinsurance undertakings which are entitled to carry out life insurance or reinsurance. And there's asset managers there... So the transparency of their activities, their responsibility... establishment of salaries, audit procedures, investments, provision of information to Latvia... Both for Latvian companies and for companies of the European Union or the European Community... Please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U43	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading draft law on Amendments to the Insurance and Reinsurance Act! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U44	Deadline for submission of proposals - 17 May. And when you submit your proposals for the second reading, please see all these draft laws together, because they have to be incorporated into all of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U45	Thank you. Consequently, for this draft law, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 17 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to Land Books Act”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U46	Good morning, honourable colleagues, honourable colleagues! The Legal Commission has examined and prepared for the second reading the draft law “Amendment to the Land Register Law”. Eight proposals have been received. 1. is a proposal of a technical nature from the responsible commission, the Legal Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U47	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U48	2. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partially supported, included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U49	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U50	3. - a proposal from the Legal Commission providing for another alternative form of application for reinforcement, namely the official electronic address. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U51	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U52	4. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partially supported, included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U53	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U54	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U55	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U56	6. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U57	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U58	7. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U59	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U60	And 8, last, the proposal of the Minister of Justice, John Bordan. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U61	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U62	Consequently, all proposals have been examined and supported. I invite you to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U63	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law on Land Books Act! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U64	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the deadline for submitting proposals to be set at 13 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U65	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 13 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Support for Unemployed and Labour Seekers”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Ieva Krapāne.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U66	Good morning, colleagues! The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Support for Unemployed and Labour Seekers” was examined by the Social and Labour Commission. First. The draft law establishes a delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to issue regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers that result from the European Union regulation on the European network of employment services. Secondly. The draft law provides for a reduction of the administrative burden. Thirdly. The draft law complements the number of persons at risk of unemployment. Fourth. The draft law provides for the removal of licensing requirements for personnel selection service providers to work in Latvia. Five. The draft law harmonises terminology of the Law on Support for the unemployed and job seekers with other laws, such as the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance, as well as includes technical amendments. And the sixth. Currently, the draft law provides that the basis for losing the status of job seekers is acquisition of the status of an employee or self-employed person, with the exception of acquisition of this status for up to two months. In order to prevent potentially unfair practices, the draft law specifies that provision by correcting the time limit from two months, provided that the status of worker or self-employed worker has been obtained at maximum twice for a period of 12 months for a total period not exceeding 60 days. The legal office had no conceptual objections. The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Support for Unemployed and Labour Seekers” was approved by the Social and Labour Affairs Commission. On behalf of the Commission, please support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U67	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Support for Unemployed and Labour Seekers”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U68	Deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading - 16 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U69	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 16 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Privatisation of State and Local Government Housing Houses”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Regina Ločmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U70	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, colleagues! For the second reading, the draft law “On privatisation of state and municipal residential houses” was submitted, which is included in the group of draft laws, where amendments are necessary due to change of status of the Privatisation Agency. For the second reading, only a few more precise proposals were tabled. They were submitted by the Legal Bureau but, since they were submitted after the deadline for submission of proposals, they were redrafted as commission proposals during the meeting of the panel. So proposal 1 was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U71	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U72	2. - Commission proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U73	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U74	And 3. - Commission proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U75	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U76	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U77	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Privatisation of State and Local Government Housing Houses” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U78	Deadline for submission of proposals - 24 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U79	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 24 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Financial and Capital Markets”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U80	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, This is one of the draft laws on which the Prime Minister says – “capital repairs”. And that's what it is. A certain “capital repairs” sector, called “Monitoring and functioning of the Latvian financial system”, has to be carried out. And therefore, there will be a whole series of amendments, including these, in order to put Latvia's financial sectors and supervision of the financial sector in order to ensure that Latvia does not run the risk of becoming either white or black... No, white better get in! No black, no semi-grey, no dark grey list. This is why the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has considered in a long debate both the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Financial and Capital Markets” and the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions” in order to understand what the government intends to do in this “capital repairs”. Amendments to the Law of the Commission on the Financial and Capital Markets have been approved by the Commission for the first reading. And I call on you fellow Members to support them. Because in essence... it changes, to a certain extent, the arrangements by which we elect the responsible officials; it also changes the arrangements by which we allocate the tasks assigned to them by the Financial and Capital Markets Commission, which they have to do. These are important things. Without them, reforms cannot be carried out. So that's the request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U81	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U82	Dear President, Honourable Members! I do not question anything that Mr Bondar said about the need... may also be called ‘capital repairs’... on the need to improve the governance of our financial sector, make it stronger and more understandable, but I would probably regret it if I did not express my opinion today and did not express concern about where this proposal is currently leading. I am referring to the proposal for a new governance model. In order to be able to understand better, I would first like to briefly describe the existing model. The current one, which is of course with certain shortcomings, is: the Saeima elects the President and Vice-President, and then, in agreement with the Bank of Latvia and the Ministry of Finance, the other three members are appointed from among the President. Of course, it has proved that this model is not always the most correct model. What we faced was, I will not hide, a conflict between the two people appointed by the Saeima - between the President and the Vice-President. And, in my view, one of the main reasons was that those three, whatever they... they also, of course, vote as President, there is no conflict between them, but they are not with job responsibilities. The result was that the deputy spent a lot of time either in Finmina or in one of the other organizations in the cafe... But the conflict was undoubtedly marked, and the model was to change. What about the offer? I draw attention to the fact that such an offer had already been made in the previous Saeima. And, in consultation with both supervisors and experts, I'm so... Please remove it then because... We are going on very fast steps to something very dangerous - we're going to politically embedded people, we're going to... Mr. Neighbours is not here today, but let's go to... NEP... There, too, he had to... with very, very loud slogans for independence... What organizations where and how they did not lead it! And here is a really very respectful mechanism for bringing forward. At the same time, I remember the NEPLP... But it ended up with a certain man-in-one room and... However, every member has political support behind his or her back. We are now at a banking sector that is undoubtedly... First of all, there is a very high level of people to be able to work there, receiving eight thousand if I am not mistaken. There must be a high level. Well, well, that's one of it... I could also say very politically immediately... And that sounds good, of course. You chose five people appointed by the Saeima. Five so that each coalition party has its own person. Then, after each of them, he'll stand by his bank - there'll be a back... But I very much hope that this may not be the case. I do not doubt that you wanted to do this very well. At the same time, of course, no law states what these people will do. The existing board is in employment. They're heads of departments. I assume it could be... there could be experts working in the Bank of Latvia or other experts, but in this case, with the exception of the manager, who has to manage, who is responsible for... I'm afraid the other four don't know what to do, because the law doesn't talk about them. They're just going to meet with the councils and then they're going to decide. The Council, by the way, meets relatively rarely. However, the dismissal mechanism in your proposal is very simple: 10 Members write the request and the head of the Financial and Capital Market Commission can get here every month on a vote-out promise, which I think is absolutely contrary to the fact that we want a very independent, very respectful and controllable Financial and Capital Market Commission. I therefore think that this offer is somewhat absurd. I'm also drawing attention to... I've seen two letters from your commission... from the Bank of Latvia. One talk about the same thing as I am talking about, but in a week's time, they say that they have not thought about it, which means that there has obviously been some kind of discussion in a week's time. You cannot support it, but I do not think you will vote. The coalition is big and strong, you will support it. But in that case, please do not rush, at least, to debate, because these things I have pointed out are really dangerous. Limiting the “capital repairs” to getting some effect, so that at the end there is no defect that draws somewhere back. ( Interface: “There’s nowhere below! ” ) Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Urbanovich: “Wot, fools!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U83	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U84	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, In my opinion, many of you think that you will be voting on the current technical proposals immediately, which, as Mr Bondara said, are indeed a 'capital repairs', a strengthened FCMC and a fight against money laundering. As if this fight were much more successful if we were to write in the law now that the FCMC has a duty to fight money laundering, as if the FCMC had never known anything about it so far. But good. Most likely you were told that these amendments are very important so that Latvia does not enter the greylist to comply with the Moneyval recommendations. But these are all fairy tales. Moneyval does not require to do what is offered in this bill. You will not find it on Moneyval recommendations. And these amendments are not so simple at all. First of all, with these amendments, you will weaken the FCTC and significantly reduce its autonomy. And perhaps this is done, offered with a deliberate intention. We now have a system that provides very clear personal responsibility for the FCTC. Both clear personal responsibility for everything going on in the financial sector... one person, President, clear political responsibility... but also a clear political and personal responsibility for those who drive this person. They are the Minister of Finance and the President of the Bank of Latvia by mutual agreement. And if anyone, we know who is personally responsible for, perhaps, the bad leader of the FCMC. So a very clear system with a very clearly defined personal and political responsibility. The purpose of these amendments is to completely dismantle this system. The entire Cabinet will now be responsible for guiding the candidates. Dear colleagues, ask yourself a question: why does the Minister of Finance want to remove personal responsibility for the promotion of the new candidate for head of the FCTC? In our country, colleagues, decisions are delegated to the Cabinet of Ministers when they want to remove any personal responsibility when preparing something very interesting. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “What about personal responsibility?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ What, then, is to be expected? What? Let us ask: what is expected in the financial sector, when Finance Minister Reir, who, unlike many of you who have just been elected, the newly elected Members, wants to take out any political responsibility for the new President of the FCTC? Ask yourself this question. All five members of the FCTC Council will now be approved by the Saeima. Well, this is where Mr. Kučinsky said... Well, really... Five coalition parties - five members of the FCTC Council... Conveniently, of course? But as a result, you know, the FCTC will be fully politicised. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Feldman: “But what about Singapore?” ) Of course, on... We're not in Singapore yet. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “But you promised!” ) SOUND is not yet in government, if. Dear colleagues, Have you really not understood that with these amendments, the current President of the FCTC, Peter Putniņš, will be dismissed less than three years before his term of office? This is perhaps the real aim of these amendments. Why? Why?Oh, no, no, no, What are the offences that will be brought to the chair of the FCMC, and in such an urgent and absurd manner? It is also a question that you, honourable colleagues, should ask yourself. Since the government of Karina has not explained, either directly or through its representatives, the reasons for the dismissal planned by the president of the FCMC, I think I can put forward some hypotheses. Is it possible that Peter Putnins struggled too badly with contributions from non -residents? Of course not! Even fought too well! In the very short term, non-resident deposits decreased by 75 per cent. Well, it's probably not the right reason. Is that what Moneyval is asking for? No, no. You will read the Moneyval report - quite the contrary! If Moneyval praises someone, it's the FCTC. The FCTC is the most praised institution in the Moneyval report. Has the government, a minister or one of the coalition politicians, one of you, made accusations to the President of the FCTC, Peter Putnins? No, no. I haven't heard it. I think no one has ever heard that. So what has Peter Putniņš done? In my opinion, there is only one explanation left behind: the Chairman of the FCMC has allowed ABLV Bank's self-liquidation, not allowing it to fall into the hands of insolvency administrators. It seems that this is the decision that will not be granted to him. So, honourable colleagues, ask yourself a question: could it not be that, by supporting these amendments, you will help with the principle president of the FCTC, who is against the interests of political business? Could that be the case? What is the price of the question? That business model is quite simple. On the ruins of the former “small Swiss” is now a branch business - extortion business. From the people trapped in Latvia... Owners of non-residents who are trapped in the financial system of Latvia may now be required to explain the origin of their funds - to be unconscious, infinitely. And if they fail to prove the origin of their funds or that they are white and fluffy, they will not be returned. Colleagues! It is increasingly said in the city that what is happening is that the deposit-holders of these non-residents are offered to handle the issue with all responsible services... Of course, at a percentage. The city says that this percentage is far from reasonable and can even reach 80 percent. Can you imagine the possible scale of this business, for example, in the case of ABLV Bank only? The contribution of non-residents has been more than two billion euros. ( Internouncing call.) So what otkates were possible? As a result, Peters Putniņš’ decision to allow ABLV Bank’s self-liquidation paid political business administrators several hundred million euros. And could it be that it was about this decision that the Karini government or those behind Karini's government who now so much wanted to release Peter's Bird? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Kols: “All Tips!” ) Could that be the case? Dear colleagues, It is clear, however, that in the near future coalition needs a obedient regulator. We also have other banks dealing with non-resident deposits in our country. Does anyone think about the liquidation of some of these banks now? Could it be that this is why the government of Karini is offering the current FCTC model, which is professional and with the spine, to replace with a obedient political inserts board? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “You’re already there in the Riga City Council to know better!” ) Think about it. Thank you. ( Internoint.) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U85	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U86	The government of the new Unity has taken action against the financial sector 'capital repairs'. And logically the question arises: why does the financial sector need 'capital repairs' and what has led to a situation where we need this repair? I will remind the finance ministers of the last 10 years. Einars Repše, party “New time” from which the Unity was formed. In 2009, 2010 the Minister of Finance joined the current Prime Minister Karina in politics. Andris Wolk from Unity. Finance Minister for the period 2010-2014. At the time when the Prime Minister was the success story of Unity... personal success story Valdis Dombrovskis, who was also Minister of Finance from 2002 to 2004. John Reirs - Unity. Minister of Finance from 2014 to 2016, father of the most pointless ideas, differentiated non-eligible minimum. Dana Reizniece-Ozola - 2016-2019, and again Jānis Reirs. Now from the New Unity. As you can see, over the last 10 years, even longer, the financial sector has been run by UNIFORM, which appears to require a "capital repairs" in 2019. The next thing that is relevant in this context is the question: how have we started the financial sector's 'capital repairs'? We are the only country that has hidden its national capital in the appearance of ABLV Bank... The only country, and we are terrifyingly happy about that. We have ourselves destroyed our financial sector, where a sufficiently large proportion of gross domestic product is made up of national capital, and we are pleased about that. One more thing to say: Mr. Vjačeslav Dombrovskis has already touched it. As we know, the biggest stress in the financial sector’s ‘capital repairs’ has been that ABLV Bank is going through self-liquidation rather than forced liquidation proceedings in which insolvency administrators could earn around EUR 400 million. And here, I would like to highlight one particular case of the members of the financial sector's 'capital repairs' who tried to lead and to influence this process so that the financial institution in question would have forced liquidation. This person, as we know, is the shot Mārtiņš Bunkus. I would like to remind you that the shot partner of Mārtiņš Bunkus in several episodes, including the winding-up of “Trasa commercial bank”, was a lawyer Romualds Vonsovičs, who at the same time is also a lawyer for the representative of Unity, Mr. Latkovska, who is sitting here in the first line. ( Internouncing call.) What I would like to say about the 'capital repairs' of the financial sector is clear that we are going to a politicised supervisor, a politicised supervisor in the relevant field. And the coalition will say it's the best representative. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Marty. I know I have a good relationship with you... You are not listening right now (I am talking about Martin Bondar) (Dep. Bondar: “I’m listening, I’m listening! Is this ear!” ), but this will be for you. The coalition says that the arrangements they want to put in place will be the most effective and the most correct. I think, for example, that we have the budget and financial (tax) commission of the Saeima, led by Mārtiņš Bondars, who has one loudly known financial process. We are talking about the fact that we want to remove any doubts. And I am also convinced - that is my human belief - that Mārtiņš Bondar is not guilty of the dispute. But at the same time, he is the head of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission while this dispute is taking place. This, of course, undermines Parliament's prestige. And so... These are comparable situations. If we make the Financial and Capital Market Commission a platform for political trade, where all the members of the board will be driven by coalitions, then... One more thing must be said: then, in principle, we will be politicising the financial sector, because there is such a small part that the members of the board of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission are obliged to monitor the banks. So they're monitoring specific banks. Each member of the council actually enters a particular bank. That means that we now have political banks? What is the measure called ‘capital repairs’ to politicise the financial sector? This is, in fact, the purpose of this amendment, which is to remove the management of the Financial and Capital Market Commission from the route because the management of the Financial and Capital Market Commission has in fact not allowed a compulsory liquidation of one particular bank, called ABLV Bank, at the expense of which some managers’ lawyers or close associates could, in the event of forced liquidation, earn an indecent amount for their opinion, in fact do not do so. That is the aim. And that is why I am calling for no support. I call for this not to be supported for another reason. And that's the last reason. Moneyval recommendations - this is not a mandatory law that must be enforced. Our country can offer to solve some problems, but we cannot force anyone else to tell us what our country has to do in a compulsory manner. In fact, it is unacceptable for an independent sovereign state to have procedures in place that can dictate mandatory conditions that need to be made. The recommendation in its essence does not mean an order, but a proposal that could or might need to be improved, but it does not mean a blind bend in the position of a slave without taking care of the interests of his own country. More. And that's the last thing I want to say. Those accusations that have been directed against ABLV Bank... analogue accusations have been directed in other countries... I would refer to the example of ‘Swedbank’. Is the winding-up proceedings initiated with Swedbank? I have heard and read in the press that a two million euro premium has been paid to the manager of Swedbank when he leaves his post... after he has been accused... In our country, we are happy to liquidate our national capital and we believe that this is right. In my opinion, this is a mistake and we should not allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U87	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U88	Colleagues! I am for the past, for the present and for the future. Talking about the past. Mr Dombrovskis, one comment on your speech. Your speech was long, but I did not hear the answer to one question: if everything is so good, then why is everything so bad? Why is Latvia currently hanging behind in the financial sphere? It's not because everything's just in shit, as we would say. ( GREEN'S MEMBERS' INTERPRETATIONS) Yeah. You look at me? Do you want me to tell you about my past? I can answer for you in one sentence. I have nothing to be ashamed of. I don't have jobs to be ashamed of in the financial sector. ( FROM a fraction AS TOWARD: “A is it not working? ” ) So everything is... I can look safely in your eyes. Now talking about it. If nothing is changed in Latvia, there will be oats, speaking in Latvian. I thank the Prime Minister and the Government for being engaged and active in this area. Talk about the future. What should it be? Countries choose a wide variety of governance models for the financial sector. Latvia also has the right to choose which model it wants, how it elects its officials, and so on. Just one thing, you need to understand. If the system has already produced a result that is unsatisfactory, then obviously the system needs to be changed. There's nothing to do with it! The system must be changed with the hope that we will achieve a better result in the new system. Are there guarantees? I cannot give such guarantees. But the fact that the government has a vision and that we have to go in this direction is absolutely clear. It's not... I have no doubt. And so in the Commission we spent quite a long time debating these issues. Of course, the concerns that your fellow Members have expressed have also emerged at the committee meeting. We have three readings. These draft laws shall not be carried out under the urgency procedure - neither the draft amendments to the Finance and Capital Markets Commission law nor the draft amendments to the Credit Institutions law shall be carried out under the urgency procedure. So we can debate, talk, remove concerns, raise concerns and remove concerns again. Colleagues, I call on you to support Latvia in having hope. I call on you to support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U89	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U90	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Colleagues! It is so that for 20 years there has been a cultivation of the cloned financial sector in Latvia, but it suddenly crashed in connection with Article 311... In the context of the U.S. government statements in the context of ABLV Bank. Warning signals were given before Latvia tried to join the OECD, and after we were stopped by correspondents... so to say, the relationship with the US dollar, and to say... I also clearly understand that we have been in such a crisis for the last two and a half years. When there is a crisis situation, everyone must be able to mobilise, work as a team and play with open cards - at least public institutions for public interests. It has to be recognised that, as a Minister for Finance, I have not been satisfied with the management work of the FCMC. I also set out it to a great extent in a letter sent by the Saeima, the Bank of Latvia, the Head of Government in the last weeks of my work by the finance ministers, to signal, where the management of the FCMC should work differently, in my view, also more effectively in cooperation with other partners. In this sense, of course, it could be a pleasure that, with these amendments to the law, we will replace the "bird" that has not worked very well. But, to be honest, my fellow Members, I did not respect this type of calculation, because it makes me think that we are now going to do such a political, not a professional, calculation. If we are not satisfied with the way in which FCMC management works, then there is a much more correct way to change management. The fourth paragraph of Section 14 of the Law currently states that the Saeima may change the chairman of the Board and his deputy, who are appointed officials of the Saeima, before the specified deadline, if a critical assessment of their work from the President of the Bank of Latvia and the Minister of Finance has been received. The question is, does the Minister of Finance at least understand that there is now a more difficult situation with the Head of the Bank of Latvia... has the Minister of Finance even orally set out to the Saeima today the reasons why there is displeasure with the leadership of the FCTC? If we go this way, that we foresee amendments to the law for one, two, or maybe three, four, five people, this means that we basically show that in Latvia any independent institution, if it does not work according to our wishes, we will change the law and change the management without any argumentation, politically. I think this is a very bad signal to the international institutions. I think what we need to understand is that, if we try to look all the time for one single sin, to kill it, believing that in this way we will convince international institutions... That too is a misconception. I think that's a mistake... in those traps we almost fell in, at one time emphasising Burkana as the main perpetrator - he is guilty of everything that happens to the financial sector. Now the next victim has been found - Putniņš. But, colleagues, the nature of what we are being accused of is not the act or omission of one or the other, or of a third official. Overall, the system is not working. We have not been able to show that we are able to see the financial crime, investigate it and condemn its perpetrators. That is what we will have to show! With one or the other or the third man, as he says, hanging at the torture stake is not enough. We also asked the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) for a longer period for the submission of proposals so that there would be an opportunity to debate these issues, so that we would not be able to amend, replace the members of the Council now with a great deal of ambition, then lose the state again in the Constitutional Court or in some other institutions, once again pay compensation, showing that we are unable to make wise, reasonable decisions. For my part, I support all other amendments proposed by the Credit Institutions Act, as well as by the State Secret Act. I think that these are sensible, necessary and also urgent measures. There is real concern about this particular issue precisely because we are demonstrating the political will to have a political influence on the work of an independent institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U91	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U92	Hello, colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! There are different ways of managing the state and appointing such key officials as are at stake in this case, namely in today's debate. One model is what I could call the Scandinavian or Nordic model: really try to find the best professionals, who will not be under any political pressure, but will work in the interests of the country and do it for the best. And I don't think it's so white and fluffy... It may look more like it is more than it is in fact - that there is no such political influence or political interest in the Scandinavian countries when they enter councils. But... Yes, it's definitely more in such a professional direction... The second model of how to manage a country is what is, for example, in the United States and Great Britain, where, with political, say, cycle change... the power actually elected after the elections takes maximum control of the country by entering, yes, people close to their party openly, without hiding. Of course, it is trying to look for the professional in its own ranks, thus assuming all responsibility - absolutely all responsibility! - about what happens during this period while they are in power. And then the voter can assess whether this party and the officials who were appointed have worked in the interests of the country have taken care of their country. I think we're like... At the worst stage, in the worst situation where we imagine that we have a place in Scandinavia, we actually appoint officials according to our interests. And that's the worst scenario. I'd have to either one or the other. Since we are still far from Scandinavian, we should admit that we are doing more in America. There's nothing wrong with that. I just... That is what I want to say (and it is not ironic): if we have five members of the board who, by chance, coincide with the number of parties in a coalition, I think it is best to say that: every party appoints a representative. This does not mean that this representative will now do something to his party, I do not know. No, no, no. He's just... The party will assume responsibility for one of its representatives. Probably everyone will try to find a professional so that they can not fail, everyone will know who is, and this does not rule out, in my opinion, that the institution can work well. I just call for this simulation to end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U93	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U94	Dear President, Honourable Members! The purpose of this law is to strengthen the fight against money laundering, with problems that exist around the world. But both the Commission and all those present here must combine two things that are practically incompatible. First thing. We need to strengthen the independence of this committee, not only to make various amendments. In general, in support of the necessary amendments to the existing law, however, three things that I have very much doubts at the moment should be noted. Of course, we will discuss them for the second reading, and I call on all Members of the Saeima to participate actively. One of the amendments is as follows: add... preventing the financing of money laundering and terrorism and proliferation, monitoring and controlling compliance by financial and capital market participants with international sanction laws. And the first question here is: are we not contrary to the proposals proposed by the European Union? In what way? There is such a committee as TAX3. It is a working group of the European Parliament that develops regulations to improve the fight against money laundering. It is extremely interesting that the vice-president of this working group is Roberts Zīle. This working group in the European Parliament has developed proposals such as the creation of a common European Financial Intelligence Agency. And I understand that this institution, which is headed by Mrs Znotiņa, will also be called the Financial Intelligence Service. And what is the recommendation of this Working Party TAX3? It recommends a further distinction between crime prevention and investigation from classical banks. We will remember that the three largest Latvian banks, including ABLV Bank, were supervised by the European Central Bank. So that is the opposite of what is included here, and we still have to look at the second reading, whether it is necessary or not. That's one. The second thing. Of course, the question of the procedures for the replacement of the Chairman and the members of the Council of the FCTC is worth the discussion. If old (and I recommend everyone also to watch the existing law, these amendments)... if the current procedure is such that the Saeima, on the recommendation of the President of the Bank of Latvia and the Minister of Finance, vote in favour of and approve the candidature of the Chairman, then the new proposal provides for a competition between the Cabinet of Ministers. The Commission of the Cabinet of Ministers, which organises this competition, examines various candidates, is attended by the Minister of Finance, who is normal or his authorised representative, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of the Interior, the representative of SAB, the Director of the State Chancellery. And we also had doubts in the Commission as to whether the Minister of Finance and representatives of the Bank of Latvia had consultations... in the financial spheres... who are specialists will be able to do so worse than the Minister of Justice, the Minister of the Interior and the representative of the SAB. They can give their conclusion. They're gonna sit in the commission... The chief of the Registry... Well, I'm looking at why there's no Minister of Agriculture in there... and the Minister for Culture... They also have a connection with money things there... So this is a very important issue. I have great doubts as to whether it is necessary to do so. Next. For release. The current law also provides, I think, a very normal procedure for the release of the chairman or council members or the vice-chairman of the commission - if there is a court ruling if six months have not been in employment... Well, now there's a law on pardon... So, even if there's no tolerance... Well, there are other reasons. But I am concerned about the point that 10 Members of the Saeima will be able to collect signatures. You know, it's extremely interesting! Let us now consider: does this strengthen independence? I would like to see who will be willing to stand as chairman of the commission, knowing that there are already 10 signatures of people who may not be satisfied with this candidacy and who will come... Well, if nothing happens at that point, there will be 10 Saeima Members again next week... It does not say how often such proposals can be made. I think this weakens the independence of the institution. And that's more like, in this case, maybe it's supposed to be a wedding. Next. Transitional provisions Well, actually the same thing... Yes, there was also the thought... Although, I must say, we have not seen any document in the Commission indicating that the Commission has worked badly. And, as I said, Europe's overall trend is to strengthen financial intelligence. We should, in my opinion, start with a completely different institution, change the name of this spirit - the proceeds of crime... Anti-Traffic... and so on... Just change the name to this - "Financial Intelligence"! And we are discussing whether this institution has worked normally! In my view, it has worked badly. Let us remember that the President was Burkan! Already in his time, the Financial and Capital Market Commission had presented about two billion... materials on suspicions... in various banks... For this moment... Now Burkan was replaced, is Znotiņa... Only 70 million have been recovered for this time. This commission... this institution works, in my opinion, absolutely unsatisfactory. It has no council... We gave an extra seven million... There's no control. What are they doing? How is this money used? Now we're going to this commission with an ambitious ambition... So, I think, there should be a separation between financial intelligence and banking supervision, just as the European Central Bank does. On transitional provisions. Article 29 Well, it's not that on 1 October 2019 we're going to present... New Chair, I'm sorry... Is there at least one point of the existing law fulfilled? Is there a statement by the chairman of the commission that he resigns? Perhaps he has no permission, or perhaps he has not been at work for six months? On the contrary! We must say honestly: it is this commission that is the only institution that has worked most normally. We are now saying: it will be different, we will change something. But I can't see the reasons. Isn't there a case... Is that so? Could any legal proceedings not be followed? The Legal Bureau also told us in the Commission that there would be a need for some conclusion from the Ministry of Justice to not repeat... Because in this way... You have elected the Chair of the Commission in 2016, who has worked well for 2022. But suddenly you get into your mind to change the name... “ We will announce a new... any competition for a new chairman!’ On what basis?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Indeed, there is a precedent. It has already been mentioned - and I actually agree - that in this way we can rename, for example, the Bank of Latvia as the Central Bank of Latvia and change its manager with the signatures of 10 members of the Saeima if we do not like the existing one. The Prosecutor General's Office can be called the Supreme Prosecutor's Office and the Supreme Court can be called the General Court, and it can be changed again when it comes to mind. It is essential to consider this here. Why am I saying that? There must be no doubt that the independence of the panel will be jeopardised. No doubt! Next. However, there will be a tendency for the European Union to separate financial intelligence from banking supervision, which is a completely different work, and not to shift the responsibilities of one institution to another. And the next, as I said, needs to be analysed very carefully how we do it. That means that we should not pour the baby out of the trough with dirty water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U95	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U96	I would just like to give the public an example of a coalition, on the pretext that it will appoint the best professionals, actually appoint them. This will probably also apply to the Financial and Capital Market Commission. More specifically, the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Juris Pūce, has recently led Elita Baklāni-Ansberga as Head of the State Environment Service. Juris Puce, as we know, is a classmate of Edgars Jaunupe. Elita Baklāne-Ansberga is a very close, very, very close friend of Edgars Jaunupa. This is the way in which managers are selected and the Cabinet approves them. There is no doubt that future members of the board of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission will be appointed in the same procedure and according to the same system. The other thing. If we are talking about the “capital repairs” of the financial sector, I think that every businessman of Latvia and every citizen of Latvia who wants to open a bank account in Latvia, which is becoming increasingly difficult to do today. And I think that enough people in Latvian society are suddenly considered criminals who are closed bank accounts. Latvian society is already feeling on its own skin that the so-called "capital repairs" of the financial sector actually increasingly slows down entrepreneurship, and more and more entrepreneurs are moving to neighbouring countries where it is much easier to open a bank account, where there is no wish to destroy their financial sector. And let us not be naive: we are proud here that we have reduced the amount of non-resident deposits. It could be thought that these non-residents no longer deposit anywhere. They simply move to Monaco, to Switzerland, to other neighbouring countries, and in fact we have provided our financial sector, which has brought enough money into the budget of Latvia, to other countries. That is also all we have gained from the activities that have been carried out so far. The amendments in question are dangerous, there will be once again friends, classmates, favorites or not yet know what to do in the relevant positions. Consequently, I call for this amendment not to be supported and for it not to be politicised. Because, as we know, a politicized supervisor cannot in any way perform the functions of an independent supervisor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U97	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U98	Dear colleagues, I would like to express my compliments to my colleague Mārtiņš Bondar, who has probably successfully tried to convince many of you that these amendments are really nothing like that, that they are innocent. He tried to appeal to Karina's government as a blind kitten who really doesn't understand what else to do to meet the international financial allies, and so on, because Kučinski's government, to say it, tried... By 75 percent, nonresident deposits were reduced, shell companies were banned, but something is still not valid. Now Karin's government thinks what else to do? Try to fire the FBI leader, maybe it'll help... politicize the FCTC, maybe it will help. It doesn't really know what to do. I cannot disagree with this characterisation of Karin's government, but I think, my fellow Members, there is something even more deeper here... I assume that almost every one of you thinks he (or she) is very... so to say, very wise and knowledgeable, and so on. But it is those who see themselves as such that it is most easy to fool. Colleagues! Think of one phase that many of you have been talking about here for a very, very long time, OIC. Do you think that over the years the legislator has not made any decision to promote it? They too thought that all of this was done with good goals. They were told that if they did not, then the European Commission, the European Union institutions, would take action against them because the so-called green indicators would not be achieved. And so on, and so on. So those who make up this political business... Colleagues, they love such topics most, they even love such themes... There is such a cosmic threat that if we do not do something like that, there will be a grey list right away, everything will come to an end: your credit cards will not be accepted anywhere and so on. Under such topics, they are directed, sliding schemes, creating the soil for future apheres. I repeat: neither the draft law on the FCMC, which is now being driven, nor the future draft law have anything to do with the Moneyval recommendations that were made in summer 2018. Wait! No connection! We all rely on someone to hear something... that they've been given some hint by some ally or... Well, something... Well, it's not serious, colleagues! It's not serious! So think again. As an opposition politician, I probably have nothing better than - in a few months' time, when it happens, you say from this same platform: well, I told you! And it will! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U99	The time allowed for the debate is 15 minutes. Would you have had six, Mr. Leien? The name to the Member Atm Lejny.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U100	Dear Bureau! Colleagues! It seems to me that all this great speech "no" is so fine, well, a machine, it could be called "ABLV Bank" to defend. But I call on you to read the FinCEN report last year, 2018, February. It's pretty terrible. And as I feel, all sorts of sub-current attempts are being made to fight against it. I would like to say two things to my colleague Dombrovskis. First thing. There's an interview in Day Business... He doesn't listen, either, of course. But last year he predicted... expected Latvia to face a disaster if ABLV Bank is closed. And I understand it. The brilliant edition of Certus, which was paid by ABLV Bank, which he also led and which came to us in the mailboxes, predicted it. You can read all of this, and you can also read their shiny edition... “Certus” - that must have been called... Nothing of that prophecy happened! So that's what you're predicting... Well, I have some doubts that the prophecy will be the right one. The second thing. It was mentioned here as ‘Swedbank’. Yeah... Well, my money's not in there, but... I would like to say that at least those agreements that are concluded with the banks in the West - those that are extremely difficult to break. If the bank manager is dismissed, he pays according to the contract, right? It was... I don't know if they were two and a half billion kroner or euros. But what happened after the change of authority, and not only one person? It happened after... As you have read in your own newspapers, “Swedbank” established a special unit that will no longer allow such things to happen. It costs Swedbank over billion euros. That's the money! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U101	Mr. Cole, would you have four minutes? Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U102	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, honourable Members, To date, here, from the troupe, the speakers have spoken more about the financial sector as a whole, without focusing on the particular draft law and the amendments tabled, without making any specific arguments about what is bad in the proposed amendments... absolutely nobody. Just speculation about and around. Here, too, I would like to add... Mr Dombrovskis, I very much hope that 13. You won't have a mandate for someone else's lobby, and you won't let your constituents down, as you did 12. The Saeima is in favour of a lobby company. Here we talked... It has been said here that we will all be politicising these amendments. If we look at the existing regulation - the President of Latvijas Banka together with the Minister of Finance, unanimously directs the candidates, but who decides then? The Saeima decides. All this is now politicised. Who elects the President of the Bank of Latvia? The Saeima. The Ministry of Finance... Who approves the Minister for Finance? The Saeima. Everything is politicized. Also in the proposed option, I thought... if you look at the specific amendments, they are clearly defined so that there are criteria for dislodging candidates. Now more is a focus on one particular person, on Putnins, but we're talking... The draft law also provides for the replacement of five members of the board, changing the process itself, not only that the chairman of the board and the vice-chairman elect the other members of the board, but that they are... The Saeima decides completely for all, and criticise the fact that there are too many institutions and persons involved in the tender process, I think it is absurd. The more, the better, each of the wider edges will assess the particular candidates and their suitability. The final comment that my colleague, Alexander Kirstein, has already mentioned. There are 10 Members who will be able to submit... and it will have to be decided - one or the other member of the council to express his distrust or not. It is only in one particular case where it is linked to a good reputation. And I think we're quite competent to be able to evaluate. We also value good or bad reputation for many other candidates. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for support for this draft law at first reading. Of course, I am calling for proposals, if any, to be made to the second reading, but to say that this is in some way passed through the back door for the interests of third parties... Well, in the Saeima, we are presenting the transparency of draft laws that improve the appointment procedure. ( Internouncing call.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U103	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U104	There is nothing to add on behalf of the Commission. I can only say, colleagues, that we had the same debate in the Commission. So Members really... ( Interface: “The result is the same, isn’t it? ” ) That's right! The result will hopefully be the same. Thank you. Request to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U105	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U106	The deadline for submitting proposals is 17 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U107	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 17 May this year. Dear colleagues, Time to break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name for Maria Golubeva to read the results of the registration as soon as the results are available.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U108	Not registered: Arvils... I'm sorry! Aldis Adamovičs, Gundars Dauge, Sergey Dolgopolovs, Raivis Dzintars, Artuss Neitiņš, Armands Krauze, Viktors Valainis and Ivars Zariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U109	Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U110	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Credit Institutions, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U111	Colleagues! This is another bill, which is actually being directed from the Cabinet of Ministers to facilitate the fight against dirty money and, of course, to improve the regulation relating to the liquidation of banks. Therefore, the request for support. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined this draft law. Of course, there will also be something to do in second reading, but it is only normal that there are, say, sharp debates on such draft laws, different proposals from different market players and so on. So the first reading request is for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U112	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U113	Hello, honourable voters! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “We are not your constituents!” ) Colleagues! I'm so sorry, I got a little cold, so I'm gonna talk in an unusual manner. Dear Voters! You have the right to know why laws are being adopted and what the consequences are. Of course, you also have the right to know the true beneficiaries of the legislative initiatives. “ Read it! Nothing can be heard!” In 2017, in the general budget of Latvia, the banking sector paid EUR 176.32 million in taxes, also ensuring well paid work for about three thousand people. Some 1000 people have lost their jobs in the banking sector since the management action last year and this year as well. Some 40 million - social benefits - were paid from the social budget to former bank employees. The official public authorities do not provide information on the state budget losses for the time being, but they could amount to around EUR 150 million, which has not been received in taxes. Voters need to know that when drawing up both budgetary plans for 2019 and 2020, government politicians were also guided by tax revenues from the banking sector. The current shortfall in these revenues is at least the same EUR 150 million. At the same time, this government has not planned any major reforms to the public administration to reduce the number of officials or improve public administration processes and to offer realistic plans to promote tax revenues. So at least these more than 100 million governments will collect from other sources, that is, from you, honourable voters. Now the so-called capital repairs in the financial sector and the Moneyval Action Plan. Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions, the Law on the Financial and Capital Market Commission and the Law “On State Secret” represent only a small part of Prime Minister Kariņš’s declared “reparation of capital”, they are most closely interrelated and cannot be viewed separately from each other. The need for these amendments is justified by the need for ministers and senior officials to implement the Moneyval recommendation plan. State officials have developed and carefully justify the need for further measures to implement the Moneyval recommendation plan. Of course, the Latvian economy and the state must do everything possible to get a positive assessment of Latvia's Moneyval assessment in the second round and to show progress in improving bad results. Unfortunately, when analysing the actions of state officials, it is necessary to conclude that, as usual, officials use the widespread practice that structural changes are being made in order not to take over responsibilities (Burkanis is being replaced to Znotiņš, KD monitoring is transferred from the Prosecutor General's Office to the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of the Interior), additional departments are being created, training is being carried out, funds are being allocated for the creation of additional state posts, equipment, IT security and so on, and so on. New officials for burning eyes and floating hair, simulating an active desire to fulfil the will of strategic partners, actually serve the interests of local people. These groups of persons are very likely to be known as insolvency administrators, consultants, lawyers and so on. Dear Voters! There is no doubt that these groups are willing to earn at the expense of ‘capital repairs’, unless they have contributed to these ‘capital repairs’ themselves. Let's take a closer look at Moneyval's recommendations! Two areas have been recognised as ineffective in Latvia: identification of true beneficiaries and prevention of proliferation financing of weapons of mass destruction. And now be careful! Moneyval points out that there is an uneven and inadequate understanding of the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing in the area of policy and coordination. Moneyval says that it is necessary to improve horizontal and vertical coordination, as well as it would be useful to improve the understanding of the private sector about risks and Latvia's international obligations. As regards financial intelligence, there is a need to increase resources for strategic and operational analysis. In the field of investigations and penalties, money laundering should be a priority and investigations and punishments should be made more rational. All the shortcomings mentioned above lie in the competences and thus in the areas of responsibility of certain civil servants. Yes, implementation of Moneyval recommendation plan for Latvia is very important. Absolutely. In order to restore Latvia's international reputation and not to diminish its credit ratings, that is, the price of money to the Latvian government and banks, which affects lending to people and businesses in Latvia. However, it is even more important that public officials or those who consider themselves to be such in communication with strategic partners of Latvia and those responsible for the cooperation organisation to be able to present the results already achieved in a clear and understandable manner, and that the implementation of Moneyval's recommendation plan should not be carried out formally - as a duty, but also taking care of the reputation of the state, in order to reduce the shadow economy and money laundering, which most directly affects the Latvian budget and society as a whole. It seems to me that the plan to combat the shadow economy is neither up-to-date nor a priority on the agenda of this government. On the spot, of course, the question is: why are amendments to the Finance and Capital Markets Commission law and the Credit Institutions law necessary? Why are they moving together right now? Should there be shocks in the financial sector, so that the Latvian government would start working on improving important things, or, in the political jargon, on getting things right? The situation clearly demonstrates that both the former and the present government have not acted in accordance with the principle of a good and careful host and have not taken care of them in a timely and thorough manner, but has allowed tragic damage to the Latvian banking system. As a result, such inaction not only prevents the use of this, ironically speaking, financial bridge from East to West, but also creates other difficulties. In the Latvian finance bridge from East to West, there were cracks and damage that previous governments ignored or pretended to be invisible (perhaps thanks to the merits of the unronned banking market king Ilmars Rimšēvičs, his ability to describe, manipulate and direct things to his own desired bed). The amendments to the laws to be voted on by the Saeima today seem to be part of the Moneyval plan. But are they objectively and truly necessary for the implementation of this plan? A thorough analysis of the amendments proposed by the government and the government's commitment around the Moneyval plan raises a valid question: is all this not a stormy government PR campaign to cover true goals and intentions that will only be revealed later? For example, amendments to the Finance and Capital Market Commission law - why do they need to be done if Moneyval itself has, in fact, better appreciated the work of the FCTC? As regards the amendments proposed by the government, I would like to say that the problem in Latvia is not with existing laws, but with the Government's failure to develop effective practices of applying these laws. One of the reasons is the inability of public authorities to cooperate with each other. The problem of both the past and the present government is horizontal cooperation, that is, cooperation between departments, public authorities, on behalf of specific objectives and tasks. One of the key institutions in Moneyval's plan is the Control Service. In 2018, the control service received more than 40,000 reports from banks, in advance of the year – only 17 thousand. So banks report suspicious transactions to the Control Office and carry out their duties. So the problem is not in the banks, but in the state institutions of Latvia - to take effective action to check these reports and to implement further procedural actions. There is a question here: does the Control Service already have a strategy and plan to organise work to effectively process these reports, how to work with other institutions to facilitate the examination of these reports and the follow-up to the proceedings? A year will now have passed since the reform of the Control Service was launched. What results have been achieved? What has really been accomplished? Where is the public report on its work available? The work of the control service reminds of the poor organisation of the Big Talc: the need to collect the maximum amount of waste is announced, but their collection and recovery is not organised. After that, these manures roar everywhere. ( Internouncing call.) Dear Voters! There has been no planning or cooperation. Something has been and will be done, everyone can draw a bunch of things for himself, but the state and society as a whole really don't have any benefit. If this government were to really fight against the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, then the government had to ask the Control Service for a long time to prepare a strategy and a plan for the handling of bank reports. Thus, the government had to organise work so that an operational information exchange network between the various services - between the SRS Tax and Customs Police, the State Border Guard and the Administration of the Organised Crime Prevention, between the FCTC and the Control Service was launched once. The criminal intelligence model has still not been put into practice. There are currently disputes in the public and public space that will investigate smuggling - the State Border Guard or the SRS Tax and Customs Police. It has long been necessary to establish coordinated and targeted and effective cooperation between the Financial and Capital Market Commission and the Control Service in order to achieve the most rational investigation and punishment results. This was not done. There is a question here: is there a clear goal at all? Is it easier to prepare poor-quality, false amendments to the law that weaken the supervision of both the FCTC and the financial sector itself and open the door to greedy insolvency administrators and bank liquidators? The real beneficiaries of these led amendments to the law will be only a few politicians, for whom implementation of this plan is as expensive as decorative cosmetics, some bankers and certain current insolvency administrators and liquidators. The actual implementation of the Moneyval plan does not require amendments to the legislation. In fact, it is the fabrication of individual politicians and a cover for other purposes. In order to implement the Moneyval plan, targeted work and cooperation between ministries and institutions under their authority have long been necessary and necessary. Who are the real beneficiaries of these directed amendments to the law? Some obvious conclusions. The FCTC will become a politicised institution with a much lower professional level that is unable to make meaningful and clear decisions. This will result in a collective irresponsibility and chaos of the responsibility of a particular official under the supervision of the financial sector and will provide great opportunities for arbitrary, uncontrolled action. As a result, the risks of corruption will only increase. The FCTC's capacity will depend much more on the political climate in the Saeima and government, so the financial sector will be much more exposed to the political climate than to date. This is not about what will come instead of the existing FCTC council. For the time being, this is just about the replacement of the FCTC Council. Who benefits from it? First of all, those who have brought legal proceedings against Latvia for hundreds of millions and whose claim against Latvia in the FCMC together with the management of the Bank of Latvia are mentioned as the main causes of the disasters of the applicants. The replacement of both the FCTC and the Bank of Latvia is beneficial for litigation against the Latvian government. The game is about EUR 200 million. In that claim, which is open to the public, the applicants are the Gusäļikovo family, indicting the Financial and Capital Market Commission for excessively strict claims against the bank, which has created very difficult conditions for the applicants. That is, some shareholders of the bank are trying to save their situation by bringing legal proceedings against the state of Latvia, replacing the management of the FCTC and the Bank of Latvia. If some banks are likely to lose their licence, their shareholders will decide on the self-liquidation of these banks or the FCTC will initiate their forced liquidation. In any case, the proposed amendments to the law strengthen the forced winding-up process, make it less manageable and ask the question: are these amendments not in the interests of any insolvency administrator or their grouping? It is likely that these amendments to the law will pass, as planned, that Kariņš will be alive, and the coalition will be filled. That is, Kariņš will be able to account for the imitation of a well done work, but the coalition and its feeders will be well fed. The purpose of these amendments to the law is only to change the management of the Bank of Latvia and the FCMC in order to open the way... For a long time, information about the special relationship of Mr. Guselņikov with a member of the New Conservative Party's cardboard has been circulating in the public and public space. It's been known for a long time, too... Having heard from the ‘No Personal’ stories about lobbying opportunities regarding the insolvency of the ‘Azkraukle Bank’ by administrators closer to the new Old Unity. Why? In fact, tangible results in terms of investigations and legal proceedings are unfortunately not yet expected. And it will not be with the work organisation and work styles or simulation of stormy activities that are currently happening. ( The utterance: “Time! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U114	Mrs. Svelova, your speaking time is over!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U115	May I... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U116	Are Members opposed to merging the two times of the debate? Please continue!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U117	Forgive me, but the "capital repairs" announced by Mr Kariņš is actually more in line with the actions of a woman who, at a serious meeting with a strategic partner, chooses bright and bright evening cosmetics and puts her on her evening dress with a deep decollete. What do you think this woman will have on her strategic partner during a serious meeting? And can she expect respectful treatment? I personally cannot support these amendments to the law and ask you also to vote 'no'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U118	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U119	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry I bothered you to play my phones! ( Internouncing call.) This is the next very interesting bill. ( Internouncing call.) Thank you to the chair of the commission, Mr Bondara, for having held a very interesting discussion on this bill on 8 a.m. today, although this did not prevent all members of the coalition from taking a decision on this draft law by voting a few days in advance. Some time they knew what we, the usual members of the opposition, did not know. The essence of this draft law is to regulate the way in which commercial institutions dispose of themselves. This has nothing to do with the only loud self-liquidation event that we have at the moment, namely with the same ABLV Bank. So you can also ask the question: why is it that the draft law, which will regulate the procedure of self-disposal, is driven in such a hurry? Members do not even have to ask any questions or debate, they are ready to vote on all of this right away. Well, that's the new Saeima, that's the new policy. You can vote by clicking on the buttons without debate, without listening to any views. Thank you very much. (Interface: “We learned in Riga City Council! ” ) So what interesting thing is expected in the financial sector that there is such an urgent need to push forward a draft law that will regulate the winding-up of banks, credit institutions? Now, for example, for some public authorities, the illegal origin of this money is enough to freeze or return client money. Now you really... You open up a great deal of opportunities for very interesting things. And if those things happen, you will be responsible for that. Especially with regard to those who came to fight with slogans against all their political business, it will be very ironic, colleagues. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Let’s take it as a consultant!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U120	I closed the debate. In the name of the commission, what is to be explained? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U121	Collegeman Dombrovskis mentioned that this morning - at 8 a.m. - there was a further debate in the committee on amendments to the Credit Institutions' Law. Yes, because initially, the commission looked at the whole package of draft laws that we spoke about, but when we had already voted, my colleague Dombrovskis and a few more people said that there had been too little debate. Well, as there was too little debate, we also debated this morning at 8:00. All members of the Commission had come, listened very carefully to the rapporteurs and participated in the debate. So sometimes it happens that the shoes are drawn forward and the trousers are then, but if they can be wide enough, they can do so. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U122	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U123	The deadline for submitting proposals is May 17, 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U124	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 17 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Movement of Genetically Modified Organisms”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Dūklavs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U125	Hello, colleagues! We will work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Genetically Modified Organisms” (No. 102/Lp13). Four proposals have been received by the Commission, all from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. 1. - Mr Grassberg's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U126	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U127	2. - Mr Grassberg's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U128	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U129	3. - Mr Grassberg's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U130	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U131	4. - Mr Grassberg's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U132	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U133	I call on my fellow Members to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U134	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Genetically Modified Organisms”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U135	Let us wait until 9 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U136	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 9 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Hunting Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Dūklavs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U137	Colleagues! Let's work with document number. 85/Lp13 ‘Amendment to the Hunting Act’. 14 proposals have been submitted to this draft law. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U138	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U139	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Proposal No 5 has been supported and included.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U140	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U141	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Proposal No 5 has also been supported and incorporated.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U142	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U143	4. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Grassberg. Supported and included in proposal 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U144	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U145	5. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. Bordan. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U146	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U147	6. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. Bordan. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U148	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U149	7. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. Bordan. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U150	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U151	8 / 8 - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Grassberg. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U152	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U153	9. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U154	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U155	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr. Bordan's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U156	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U157	11. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. Bordan. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U158	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U159	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U160	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U161	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U162	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U163	And 14. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. Bordan. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U164	It's not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U165	Hey, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U166	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U167	Not supported. Yeah. I call for the draft law to be supported at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U168	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Hunting Law” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U169	The deadline for submitting proposals is 9 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U170	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 9 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Education Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U171	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has examined and prepared for second reading the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education”. In total we have received 13 proposals. 1. is a proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which complements the responsibility of the head of an educational institution to assess the restrictions imposed on the position of teacher, not only before the commencement of the legal employment relationship, but also at least once a year while the employee is working. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U172	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U173	2. - a proposal from the Minister for Education and Science, Mr. Long Schuplinsk. Partially supported, included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U174	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U175	3. - Commission proposal. It is specified that the ICVD has the right to process personal data related to previously established restrictions when assessing compliance of a person with the position of a teacher. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U176	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U177	The next are technical nature proposals. 4. - the proposal of Minister for Education and Science Šuplinska. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U178	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U179	5. - a proposal from the Minister for Education and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U180	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U181	6. - a proposal from the Minister for Education and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U182	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U183	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U184	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U185	8 / 8 - the proposal by Mrs Šuplinska, Minister for Education and Science. Supported and included 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U186	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U187	9. - Commission proposal. Applies to codification. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U188	Members are in favour. Members wanted to vote for nine, huh? Nine. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - The proposal submitted by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 66, for - no, for - 19. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U189	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U190	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - The proposal submitted by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 66, for - no, for - 19. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U191	11. - a proposal from the Minister for Education and Science, Mr. Long Schuplinsk. Supported by the Commission. ( Interface: “Let’s vote! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U192	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - the proposal submitted by the Minister for Education and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 64, for - no, for - 19. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U193	12. - a proposal from the Minister for Education and Science. Supported by the Commission. ( Interface: “Let’s vote! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U194	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - the proposal submitted by the Minister for Education and Science, Ilga Šuplinska! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 66, for - no, for - 19. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U195	And finally 13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This was also supported by the Commission. ( Interface: “Let’s vote! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U196	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 66, for - no, for - 19. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U197	And since all the proposals have been examined, I call for support to be given to the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U198	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 84, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U199	On behalf of the Commission, I call for a deadline of five days for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U200	So on 7 May this year, huh?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U201	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U202	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 7 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Corporate Income Tax Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U203	Colleagues! These amendments to the Corporate Tax Law are mainly related to the introduction of a single tax account. But for the second reading, two proposals have been made by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission on another subject. This has been due to a complete change in the corporate tax regime in 2018 and consequently to a change in the form of support for public benefit organisations in connection with donations. There is a rather wide range of advantages that companies can use if they choose to donate to public benefit organisations... 5 per cent of the profits, if the profits are not distributed, 2 per cent of the gross remuneration on which the state social security contributions are made or 75 per cent, up to a maximum of 20 per cent of the corporate income tax payable if dividends are distributed. At the same time as the tax system was changed, the Ministry of Finance was asked to perform a compilation... By 30 November 2019, the government shall report changes in donation trends. Such a summary has not yet been carried out. At the meeting of the Commission, the Ministry of Finance confirmed that current data, which would be reliable, on changes in donation habits are not yet fully available. They are only promised for August when companies have corrected their annual declarations. But the non-governmental sector itself... the non-governmental sector is aware of the current situation. And its trends show that the amount of donations is falling. In this context, proposals have now been made to increase support in cases where companies are willing to donate. It is planned to provide for a transitional period until 2020 until everyone becomes accustomed to the new system and the new donation... discount arrangements. It also involves two first proposals. The proposal provides that the Ministry of Finance should carry out such an assessment of the situation as a whole not before 30 November this year, but before 30 November 2021. At the same time, it has been promised that Members will already have access to information in August this year. This proposal is supported by the Commission. I ask you to support it, too.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U204	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U205	I'd like to combine...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U206	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U207	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Members of the Bureau! Colleagues! Resurrection! Today I would like to speak, calling for support for changes to the Corporate Income Tax Law in order to improve donation policy for the non-governmental sector. In 2017, the state leaders, the then government, including the former Minister of Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, did not in principle listen to the concerns of the non-governmental sector that the tax reform would have a negative impact on the sector, led the tax reform at any price approval. After the implementation of the tax reform, the leaders of the non-governmental sector acknowledged: the system of donations as a result of the tax reform will be rejected 10 years ago. I am pleased that the proposal under discussion today has been approved by the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) and I believe that this is one of the good works of the existing government for 100 days, encouraging these changes. One of the reasons for the need for specific amendments is NGO umbrella organisations, association “Latvian Civic Alliance”, data collected in 2018, which shows that the norms of Enterprise Tax Law adopted in 2017 reduced the willingness of companies to donate to public benefit organisations. The Society’s summary shows that contributions have decreased by 38 percent. We can only mention... ( Interface: “It’s not about the proposal! ” ) That is about the proposal! We can only mention what good initiatives in Latvia have not been implemented due to the drop in funding. The non-governmental organizations of sport also experienced a significant drop in donations. The real impact will certainly be even greater, and I hope that the data from the Ministry of Finance will be not only at the end of the year, but already at the third reading so that we know the real impact. As a result of the drop in donations, some NGOs were forced to lay off their employees, to reduce their work volume, they were and are forced to ask employees to go on unpaid leave and otherwise unable to carry out public benefit activities. While there are non-governmental organisations that help to improve the quality of laws daily, here in the Saeima, when submitting proposals and often not receiving adequate public funding for such activities, there are also organisations that can obtain 60,000 euros of funding outside of competitions by organising a discussion forum. An example of this is the recent TV3 “Neka personal” story about a society founded last year, which received 60,000 euros of funding. This association consists of NEPLP members Patrick Grīva and Ivars Āboliņš. It is unacceptable that the country can still seriously circumvent the general rules and good practice in the transfer of funding. Today's amendments are a step towards the NGO sector. With the specific amendments to the law, we want to achieve reasonable relief for all companies that donate to the public good. The amendments provide for an increase in the level of tax relief for donors. Changes are planned for a specific period of three years. It is hoped that during this period we will evaluate this support system, its effectiveness and its impact on the public good environment. I really hope that these changes will contribute to the willingness of companies to donate to support the activities of the non-governmental sector. In conclusion, I would like to call because experience shows that calls from this troupe sometimes have an impact on your views and those of others. For example, last week's call for participation in the Youth Saeima appeared to have been referred to by almost 10... more than 10 Members, and it was the highest indicator of recent years. Today, I would like to call on all of you to donate to the non-governmental sector. Companies that donate to NGOs - this is very important. But it is important that national decision-makers by their actions contribute to the development of a donation culture in general. Today I call on the public and I call on you, colleagues, to donate to a non-governmental organisation that performs public benefit activities so that it becomes stronger and does not die. Donate 5, 10 or 100 euros and do it on a regular basis! Because it is donations that help the non-governmental sector to develop. I call for these amendments to the law to be supported. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U208	The name of the Member, Inese Ixten.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U209	Good afternoon, honourable Chairman of the Saeima, honourable colleagues and colleagues! I would also like to call for support for these amendments to the law, because this is our opportunity to start improving the growth of the NGO sector by providing donations. In today's world, the recognition of democracy has become a common norm, however, as we remember from last year's publications, Latvia has fallen out of the family of democratic countries in 2018, where all the Nordic countries of the European Union, including Estonia, are located. This has been concluded by CIVICUS, a global alliance of civil society organisations and activists monitoring democracy in 195 countries around the world. The report points out that Latvia's policy on public organisations has become repressive over the last two years. We urgently need to change our attitude towards the NGO sector and motivate entrepreneurs to donate and participate in the activities of non-governmental organisations. I would also like to draw attention to the need to reduce the bureaucratic barriers which are disproportionately high - there are various regulatory constraints. I met the Law on Public Welfare Organisations, and, you know, I got up standing when I compared how easy it was for me to operate in a public organization, set up in the 1990s, and what bureaucratic barriers were put together for modern non-governmental organisations. This is one of the steps to reinvigorate the non-governmental sector. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U210	I closed the debate. The debate is closed. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U211	Yeah, colleagues. On the Commission's side, I would just like to stress that this proposal is a time-limit for the Ministry of Finance to be given an overview of the trends in the sector. The proposal is not to do so on 30 November 2019 but on 30 November 2021. As I said, this task was given to the Ministry of Finance to really assess the objective situation after an agreement was reached between the government and non-governmental organisations. When changes were adopted by the family, the regulation was in fact already agreed with non-governmental organisations. The answer to Mr Stein, who said that he had not taken into account the opinion and had not been heard. The opinion was taken into account, there was a hearing! And a task was given to the Ministry of Finance. Please support this proposal at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U212	Members support the proposal. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members wish to vote on proposal 1. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The proposal submitted by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, no, 17, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U213	The proposal is a substantive proposal, which can also be divided into two parts. One part concerns the entry into force of the norms related to the introduction of a single tax account and provides that its norms shall enter into force on 1 January 2021. The second part is linked to the donation policy and provides for a higher share of discounts to be applied in 2020, 2021 and 2022. In particular, it provides for the right to reduce the corporate income tax calculated on dividends during the tax period by 85 per cent of the donated amount (i.e. instead of 75 per cent to date), but not exceeding 30 per cent of the calculated corporate income tax amount on dividends calculated (i.e. instead of 20 per cent to date). On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support this package.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U214	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U215	Thank you. The proposal provides for the entry into force of the law on 1 July this year. It is also a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U216	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U217	Thank you. Therefore, please support all draft legislation at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U218	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Corporate Income Tax Law” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U219	7 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U220	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 7 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax”, second reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Janina Jalinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U221	Hello, honourable and honourable Members! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission received nine proposals for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax”. 1. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U222	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U223	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U224	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U225	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U226	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U227	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U228	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U229	5. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U230	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U231	6. - the Group's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U232	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U233	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Members, Today, we are looking at such an important proposal as a reduction in the price of compensating medicines. During the election campaign, each party promised to make the prices of medicines available to the public and to carry out the so-called liberalisation of the pharmaceutical sector. Indeed, the sick all, and the drop in prices for the medicine is a great horse for how to draw the voter's attention. Because, colleagues, as our own classics said: “How can you not be hungry?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ However, let us return to reality. In order to understand how to reduce the price, we need to understand how it is produced. The price is formed from the producer price, VAT, which we have 12 percent, drug wholesaler mark-up and pharmacy mark-up. The first possible solution to reduce the producer price is to increase the system of financial compensation by providing patients with the possibility to receive medicinal products necessary for the treatment of certain diseases, which are fully or partially paid by the State and which are included in the list of publicly eligible medicinal products. If the medicine is included in this list, it automatically becomes cheaper and is available to patients. The financing of medicinal products eligible for reimbursement shall be regulated by the Ministry of Health together with the Cabinet of Ministers. The second possible solution is to turn to a mark-up that... be signed by the Cabinet of Ministers. This exit can also be implemented only by the Ministry of Health together with the Cabinet of Ministers. We Members can only initiate a reduction in VAT from 12 per cent to 5 per cent, just as I propose in my proposal. We must finally accept the reality of the situation. Medicines manufacturers have long considered Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia as a single market. If you look at the annotations of medicines and the packaging, they are always in four or five languages, including Latvian, Lithuanian and Estonian. The difference between Latvia and neighbouring countries is measurable. Lithuania has 5 percent VAT on prescription, Estonia 9 percent, Latvia 12 percent. I ask you to support the Group's proposal so that we can deliver on the promises made to the voters by joint efforts. Follow the example of Estonia and Lithuania! I stress that our proposal is limited to compensating medicines. Thus, EUR 8 million will be saved and will be able to increase the compensatory basket at its expense. Please support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U234	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U235	Colleagues from CPV LV! I appeal to you, Ati, Ramona, Kaspars, Aldi, Aivar and all the others! Before the elections, we all traveled together to Latvia. We visited more than 150 cities and villages of Latvia. By introducing people with our pre-election programme, we were all very bold in saying that one of the points in our programme is to reduce the cost of medicines. We said it with conviction. We said that we had the courage, that we had the goal, and that we had the confidence. And that was one of the reasons why we were elected to the Saeima. It is likely that today, given that this proposal has not been supported by the Commission, the part of the Group's CPV LV in the coalition will also vote 'no'. It has been decided that coalitions should vote in the name of stability contrary to their pre-election promises. I think it's time for KPV LV to change its position and become brave, not to be afraid. I understand that there will be a counter argument and that the counter argument will be: 'We will form a working group on medicines and medicines prices'. But we know very well what happens: if you want to postpone, delay or not actually solve a matter, then it is absolutely necessary to create as many working groups as possible. The more working groups, the less results we will achieve. I call on you to vote in favour this time, because it is aimed at reducing the price of medicines. And that is, above all, a promise of pre-election. I am calling you, not because I would like you today in some way... and I believe that you are not like some other parties, for example, which promise “3 × 500” but, even when laughing openly, do not introduce it. I hope that (Interior call.) you will remember these promises, and you will remember the full medicine you don't have at the moment, and you will remember that its full medicine... you no longer have this right now for the reason that, in the months to come, while we are in the Saeima, you have also voted contrary to your pre-election promises. Don't be afraid! Without you, this government cannot exist. Don't be afraid! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U236	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U237	Dear President, Honourable Members! Why is this proposal nothing to do with it? The answer is very simple: because medicines sold in Latvia at abnormally high prices... and this price policy... it is no longer subject to VAT. This is determined, first of all, by the fact that these hospitals belong to the wholesale bases. And secondly, the medicine is produced by international corporations. We had a joint meeting (the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission with the Social and Labour Commission), which asked a representative of an international organisation how he evaluates the fact that, for example, in Latvia, pharmacy only belongs to a pharmacist... You can't be that, you know, some huge septicing or trade organization owns a whole network... And what's the difference? Then let us consider why we have changed this principle, because in Latvia there was a law that all the pharmacy can only belong to a owner who has an education in the relevant sector, he had to have an appropriate education. This law was amended for chains. Do you know why? Because there was pressure from abroad, huge lobbying. What's the difference? If the pharmacist is the owner of the pharmacy himself, he also has a moral responsibility. If he sells the medicine to you and doesn’t help you, or if he has soaked it at a price, forgive him for the word “swap”, you will no longer join him. What are the interests of international corporations or wholesale bases? To sell as much as possible and as expensive as possible. And then I have the question: why are you not coming here with a proposal to resolve this issue, which is radical and has been amended as a result of lobbying, but with a proposal that will once again reduce VAT on international drug dealers? It doesn't give anything. We will have a debate at the end of May... not a debate, but a meeting where the concept of reduced VAT goods will have to be revised. There are two things, and these things are very simple. If the product is produced in Latvia, it is logical that VAT can be reduced - just like Poles lower their agricultural goods. If these goods are produced mainly abroad... Do you understand the difference? If we, for example, lower VAT on services to restaurants or cafes in Latvia, it is one thing. The owner is here. If we humiliate, let's take some agricultural products... Most of this is already coming from Poland, and research actually shows where you can argue, whether there is a result or not. There can therefore be one solution. If we find medicines in Latvia, which, let us say, produce “Grindek” or “Olainfarm” and which dominate... I don't know, I'm not a medical doctor, but let's assume there's some kind of medicine for the heart or something else, most of which is produced in Latvia, then we can actually write, in order not to violate the principles of competition in the European Union, that VAT is for a medicine that is meant... Either, as we have with children's food or something else... But we can't reduce anything at all, because 80 or 90 percent... International companies dominate. Therefore, it makes no sense to support this proposal and it is necessary to engage in a discussion which will be complex in the area of VAT. As we know, for example, that there is a catastrophic situation in Latvia with original literature: every year the run-up is reduced by about one million. Two years ago we had 17 million, now there are 15 million books. So we can get to something. This also applies to other sectors, to culture. Whether we are lowering VAT on films and cultural products produced in Latvia, or whether we are humiliating it for absolutely everyone, but again we need to see that we are not rejecting the violations of competition. So I call for this proposal to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U238	The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U239	Dear colleagues, The aim of this proposal is essentially to find solutions to reduce poverty and social inequalities in Latvia, especially in the case of pensioners and people with special needs, as almost all of these people are taking medicines. That is why the Saeima's 'yes' vote would be a good support. Another objective of this proposal is to draw attention to the fact that poverty affects this part of society particularly painfully and that it is not easy for these people to survive. The fact that this problem is an up-to-date and necessary solution is rightly pointed out by a number of organisations that bring together seniors and people with disabilities. Therefore, one of the solutions proposed by the political group is to reduce the VAT rate for medicinal products for reimbursement from 12 per cent to 5 per cent. I would like to inform you that in Lithuania this reduced VAT rate applies to all medicines, not just eligible, and is 5 percent as we now offer. In Estonia, the rate is 9 percent. We therefore call for a new article to be added to the draft law on "Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act" in the following wording: "The reduced rate of duty of five per cent applies to countervailable medicinal products included in the national list of medicinal products to be reimbursed." I believe that this is a matter of conscience for all Members of the Saeima: this vote. Furthermore, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are providing for a transitional period for this proposal. If Parliament supports this proposal, this provision will only enter into force on 1 January 2021. I call for support for proposal 6. I call for the vote in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U240	The name to the Member is Att Zakaitistov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U241	Dear colleagues, I would like to thank the opposition, thank you also to Aldim for reminding us all of important issues (the prices of medicines are indeed a national and important issue). That is the nature of democracy. Thank you for that. The nature of democracy is also that those in a coalition must cooperate with one another and develop policies in a coordinated way. And with regard to the prices of medicines. Yes, there will be a working group, and yes, we will look at this issue in a coordinated way, and we will not give up that. There is also a working group or development commission... We have internally agreed between ourselves on administrative territorial reform, on tax issues, on the National Development Plan and many other important issues. I call for the 'no' vote, not because the issue is not important, not because it is not a question that is silly and acute, but because it is not the right time. ( The Room Noise) We will return to it when there is coordinated action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U242	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U243	Dear colleagues, This is the case where I must actually join Mr Kirštein's arguments about what should be the right thing to do in order to support my pharmaceutical industry and in other ways... I also understand what Aldis says about reducing vectors, but I think this proposal is not really in this vector. And I'll be very brief about what I mean. The pharmaceutical sector, if I may say so, is not the one where, by reducing VAT, we would eliminate the shadow economy. Unlike many others, this is not the case. And given that the volume of imported medicinal products in Latvia's retail trade is strongly dominant over our local producers, I fear that by reducing VAT, we will not make the medicine cheaper, but will not collect money in the budget, and the producer's profit from it will not change in any way. That is, in my opinion, the most important consideration for rejecting such a proposal at the moment and working on what... by the way, colleagues of the political party KPV LV said before the elections... Yes, the price of medicines was a very important issue for us, but the main and primary solution we saw was the availability of prescription-free medicines as a way to significantly reduce the price of medicines. The second thing I hope we need to understand in further discussions. One thing is the prices of medicines, the other thing I think is the education of the public about what medicines are at all, how much they need to be used. And the best way is not just to make them cheaper, but perhaps not to buy them when they do not need to be bought. And where else to use. So this time I really... In my opinion, Mr Kirštein was very good at the logic. And that logic should work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U244	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U245	I agree in many ways with the reasoning of my colleague Didzis Schmidt. But there is one problem. And the problem is comparable to the relationship. In a relationship, for example, there is a woman to whom a man promises to marry and to marry, but neither to marry nor to marry. There are already three children, but he's getting married and married. This is an issue that I would like to highlight with regard to the fulfilment of the commitments made by the political party KPV LV or, in particular, the commitments made by the JIP. It is promised that sometime will already be, sometime will be. It'll be in three, four, five, ten years. Sometime we're gonna do it. It seems to me that the promise to be courageous and confident was a promise to act now and not in the future. It was a promise given to the voters - to make bold and also contentious decisions, to discuss... I don't need to... or I don't need to... and is it a way to lower the prices of medicines... with a reduction in VAT. But courageous action doesn't mean that we're ever -- we don't know when... because we now have a budget that we did not know about. It is no longer a matter of the ministers of the New Unity taking part in drawing up this budget in the previous Parliament and in the previous government. That is why I am calling for what was in the title of the party's programme to be bold and confident, and now and not sometime in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U246	The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U247	Hello, Madam President. Hello, colleagues! Mr Kirštein, you really are right that the issue of reducing the prices of medicines must be addressed from all sides, not just by reducing VAT. On 5 March I tabled a proposal for an amendment to the Pharmaceuticals Act, in which I intended to remove the completely illogical and unjustified restriction that pharmacists must be on the Board of Pharmacy Companies and that at least half of the shares must also belong to a pharmacist. Unfortunately, I have been asked correctly to withdraw this proposal, so I would like to ask the Group of the National Alliance to move this proposal forward, along with a reduction in VAT. I ask my colleagues to support this proposal. I don't think Estonians and Lithuanians... Because they like numbers like "5", "9", and we like "12"... Indeed, this proposal can reduce the price of medicines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U248	I closed the debate. In the name of the commission, what is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U249	Not applicable.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U250	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - The Group's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 23, against - 58, refraining from - 8. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U251	7. is a proposal from the Legal Office. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U252	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U253	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U254	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U255	9. - the Group's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U256	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U257	I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U258	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax" at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U259	The deadline for submitting proposals is 16 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U260	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 16 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Regina Ločmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U261	Hello, fellow Members, again! The Commission of State Administration and Local Government has prepared for second reading the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Expropriation of Public Person’s Property”, the necessity of which is related to the transfer of functions of the Privatisation Agency to another state institution. Two proposals have been received. Both are from Minister of Finance Janis Reira. 1. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U262	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U263	And 2. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U264	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U265	I ask the Saeima to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U266	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U267	Deadline for submission of proposals - 17 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U268	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is thus 17 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Legal Movement of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and Medicinal Products”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Vitaly Orlovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U269	Colleagues! We continue to work on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Legal Movement of Narcotics and Psychotropic Substances and Medicinal Products” (No. 212/Lp13), second reading. 11 proposals were submitted to the second reading. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U270	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U271	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. You got the support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U272	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U273	3. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U274	Let us start a debate. The name to Anda Chakša.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U275	Dear colleagues, I want to pay attention. With this proposal, we are becoming, perhaps, unique, because already in 1961, the United Nations, in its Convention against the Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, made it clear that cannabis can be used for the extraction of fibres and seeds. This proposal... It is about we no longer clearly define, we do not state that hemp is only used for fibre and seed production, but we allow a full plant application. On the one hand, what's wrong? For what the businessmen say: “We want to make tea from flowers. Don't worry, THC levels are very low or in principle no." There has also been an agreement internally - in the commission... And the police are satisfied because only certified seeds, certified varieties, are used to grow these hemp. But what appeared in the Commission and which I think is very important is that there was no agreement on the part of the Ministry of Health. At present, a letter to both the United Nations and the European Commission that there is such a proposal has been written by the Ministry of Health, as far as I know. There is no clear answer on how we view it. I know we don't always need to be second or third... Sometimes you really need to be the first. But is this the question where we want to jump and allow the full use of hemp already now? Do you still have to stick to the previous regulation that only fiber and seeds are used? And this is not about medical marijuana, nor about any other thing. But it is very important that this discussion was not clear in the Commission at the moment and the Ministry of Health did not support this proposal. That is why I also call for us to refrain from supporting this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U276	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U277	Dear colleagues, On this point, a vote was taken by the Commission. This proposal was supported by a majority.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U278	So we have to vote in favour of the proposal. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - The proposal submitted by Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Grassberg! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 65, for - 18, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U279	4. - a proposal from the Minister for Health. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U280	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U281	5. - the proposal by Mrs Viņķele, Minister for Health. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U282	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U283	6. - the proposal from the Minister for Health, Ilze Viņķelis. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U284	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U285	The proposal shall be submitted by the Legal Office. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U286	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U287	Proposal No 8 has also been submitted by the Legal Office. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U288	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U289	Proposal 9 has been submitted by the Legal Office. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U290	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U291	Proposal No 10 has been submitted by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. This has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U292	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U293	Proposal 11 has been submitted by the Legal Office. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U294	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U295	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U296	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Legal Movement of Narcotics and Psychotropic Substances and Medicinal Products” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 86, for - no, for - 2. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U297	May 17th.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U298	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 17 May this year. And on the agenda - draft law “On the recognition of the law “On Precursors” as invalid”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Vitaly Orlovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U299	Dear colleagues, No proposals have been submitted for the second reading. This draft law is related to the previous draft law which has already been examined. Please also support this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U300	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On the recognition of the law “On Precursors” as invalid at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U301	May 17th as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U302	The deadline for submitting proposals is 17 May this year. On the agenda - consideration of draft decisions. Draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the draft law “Amendments to the Labour Protection Law” (No. (63/Lp13) for the second reading until 8 May 2019.’ Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the draft law on "Amendments to the Labour Protection Law" (No. 63/Lp13) for the second reading until 8 May 2019’! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on extension of the deadline for submitting proposals (No. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals to the draft law on the rental of residential premises (No. 144/Lp13) for the second reading until 26 May 2019.’ Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. And on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. The draft decision on the release of Gunta Līdak from the post of member of the National Electronic Media Council. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U303	Dear colleagues, On behalf of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs and also on behalf of the Sub-Commission on Media Policy, I would like to report to you. I would like to say that the head of the sub-committee Vita Anda Steela convened a special commission to listen to the application of NEPLP member Gunta Līdaka because of her explanation of why she wanted to leave NEPLP. Mrs Gunta Līdaka, as we know, is a very long-working person in the media. She informed us that due to the failure of the contest organised by the NEPLP, she felt that this had led to the loss of faith in both the media and, in particular, the NEPLP... And she thinks it's the situation she wants to go off better. She also referred to this issue, on which we have just discussed today, to the objective and independent nature of the institution, if it is elected by the Saeima. We can see some of the NEPLP President Dace Ķezbere's interview... She herself openly says she is a member of the ZZS. And Gunta Līdaka also pointed out that he was surprised by some... presence of the party among colleagues of the NEPLP. And we see that, in fact, we have to look at the situation, that's totally... Is such a completely free, independent institution in Latvia and worldwide possible? Because the members of the NEPLP, like the rest of the citizens, go and make their own choice, say, during the elections. Of course, we always have high settings. And I would also like to say, as a person involved in research: we always have a high definition of being objective. We are, of course, electing these institutions and we hope that they will act and be independent and impartial, but we see that, unfortunately, this is not possible. We heard Gunta Līdak. She, as a professional, went to work on this board, had applied for her candidacy. She does not feel professionally fulfilling her wishes, what she wanted to achieve in the NEPAP. And she asks, so to say, to satisfy her application. I ask you today to support Gunta Līdaka's application for her removal from the NEPLP member's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U304	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U305	This is one of many, but quite an important story about the fact that one independent organisation, an institution that is a NEPLP... In fact, its decisions involve both politicians and individual journalists. Because if you look at recent history, then... What crime has NEPPs committed? Selecting driver... This has led to hot emotions from certain journalists on public television. Who was the most active? The most active was Gundar Räder and his spouse, who is from another television, Ilze Jaunalksne. As far as is known, the television trade union itself was not critical... unequivocally critical opinion before these results of the competition. In fact, we "wrote" people at all, not even giving them the opportunity to prove themselves at work. Because if they did something illegal, they would probably have to be removed from office, and then it could also be said that someone chose the wrong candidates. At the moment, the situation is that in the interests of some, who apparently wanted some of their candidates, a megalyl scandal was made, media were used to maintain this scandal and, for example, a political tribunal was used, and there was interference in the functioning of an independent institution. The result is what we... Today we decide. I think that shouldn't be the case. In our country, this is not the first, and unfortunately, it will not be the last time people are being dug down before they are given the opportunity to prove themselves at work. And if we look at these results, what were the candidates for “Latvian Television” management, then... Even though I didn't know one... I didn't know one... I know personally from these candidates... who has also proven to be self-sufficient in organising large events... And to express, before any decision is made, any criticism just because it doesn't like a particular person, I don't think it's right. I think it is not for Gunta Līdaka to be put to the vote today, but it should be postponed. Perhaps Gunta Līdaka must convince you to withdraw your application for the reason that... I do not believe that the NEPT would be responsible for the results of the tender. Only a few interested parties who have expressed their personal views on television screens are responsible for the loudness of the results of the competition. That's the whole scandal base, too. So maybe we will do this! However, politicians need to discuss the current situation more in-depth with the NEEAP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U306	Name of Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U307	Hello, colleagues! We had the opportunity to listen to Mrs. Līdaka at the Media Policy Sub-Commission, where she gave a detailed description of why she decided to submit her return. Her answers made it clear that, first of all, it was a professional decision and that she couldn't continue to work on NEPLP, because this composition... in a situation where the NEPLP has experienced a crisis of confidence, in a situation where, in her words, the NEPLP has become toxic (Interface: “Wow!” )... in this situation she cannot continue her work on the NEPT. You really don't... There is a crisis of confidence against the NEPLP which has been caused by the NEPLP’s own activities: firstly, at the end of the year, there was no adequate justification for releasing the existing TV management; secondly, a competition was organised, in the form of abstraction of the principles of good governance, without respecting the management practices and laws of state-owned companies; and thirdly, a candidate was chosen which seemed not to meet the qualifications laid down in the Law on Electronic Media. At the moment we are still waiting for an assessment of the rule of law from the prosecutor's office, the State Audit Office is working on the NEPLP as well. These actions are likely to provide a legal basis for discussing the continuation of the work of the other members of the NEPT. That is possible. Because the Saeima needs a legal basis to act. Without waiting for the evaluation, we are currently working on how to avoid disagreements on how the existing NAP should be conducted. In addition, we hope to adopt a new law on public media at a rapid pace. I call on you today to support the release of Mrs Līdaka from her post in her own desire. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U308	Mr. Cilevič, are you going to have a debate with three minutes? That's enough. The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U309	Dear colleagues, Obviously, we have no choice. We cannot force a person to work if he does not want to, so that we certainly need to support this draft decision. But I would like to remind you once again that the independence of the regulator is the cornerstone of media independence. And much of what has been said today actually means political interference within the competence of the regulator. If the law is violated, then let us wait for the opinion of the competent authorities and then talk about the violations. Because I admit that many of you do not like the results of the competition. Some journalists also do not like the election of people from outside. I am not going to judge whether it was right or wrong, but I would remind you once again: it is not our competence. If we respect the independence of the media, then we must behave differently. I'm so sorry that a professional man leaves the regulator. I allow you, like some other regulators... We've been talking about it today... You will try to find yourself a loyal person, to divide the spheres of influence between the parties. You will therefore kill the independence of the media. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U310	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the release of Gunta Līdaka from the post of member of the National Electronic Media Council! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting was examined. I must inform you about the answers to Members' questions scheduled today. Member of the Minister for the Interior, Sandis Ģirgens, Lochmeles-Lunova, Kabanova, Kucina and Cilevičs “On the decision on the closure of the Deglav Bridge”. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. So today's answers to Members' questions will not happen. ( The utterances are: “Ooo! ” ) The question asked by Members, Mr Reizniece-Ozola, Mr Augulis, Mr Čakša, Mr Kučinskis, Mr Dūklavs, on "Improvements in the payment and reporting of assistance services". We hand it over to the Minister for Welfare to respond. Please call me! Please register the Members! As long as the results of the registration are being prepared, the name of the Member Rihard Kola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U311	Dear Members of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, I informed you that a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Commission will be held in the Foreign Affairs Commission's meeting room at 12.40. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U312	Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U313	Not registered: Aldis Adamovičs, Raimonds Bergmanis, Gundars Dauge, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Raivis Dzintars, Artuss Kaimiņš, Armands Krauze, Viktors Valainis, Ivars Zariņš. Bergman!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-02-PT13-534-U314	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
