ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take a seat in the Chamber so that we can begin the sitting of the Saeima on 26 September 2019. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda approved by the Saeima Bureau. The Legal Commission is asking to change the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft law “On disposal of the part of real estate “Ozolsalas” in Ķekava municipality, Ķekava municipality for public needs – implementation of the main road project “E67/A7 Ķekava bypass””. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The National Security Commission asks for the draft decision on the approval of the National Security Concept to be included on the agenda of the sitting and to be examined after the draft laws have been submitted to the Commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft decision “On removal of judge Aija Orniņa from office of a district (city) judge”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”” and to include it in the agenda of the sittings before paragraph 14 “Amendments to the Law on State Information Systems”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications asks for the draft decision to be included on the agenda “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 417 Latvian citizens “The State to support patients with severe disease melanoma, as is the case in Lithuania and Estonia”. Are Members opposed to the amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Pavļuts, Skride, Voika, Bondars and Bluke are asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Waste Management Act” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to the amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Reports by the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Regulators of Public Services” be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on International Assistance” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the member Lochmeles-Lunova, Dombrovskis, Kucina, Švekova and Agešina be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, according to the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance". ‘ Regina Ločmele-Lunova, Member of the European Parliament, has applied to speak about’.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U2	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Good morning, colleagues! Yesterday, I gave a speech to today's sitting. This morning I decided to give it up at all because I was sitting until the last time and I was waiting for Ramona Petraviča's answers to the Group's SASKAR questions in connection with the Government's decision and the plan that she supported to reduce the amount of unemployment benefit and the payout period. I sat down and was waiting to print because I was hoping to get a large amount of material, because in total we asked seven questions. In my practice, there were cases where the answers to the requests were so large that it was not possible to place it on the computer and, to me, eight of them were issued to the Document Department. Here, too, I had such thoughts that such a painful subject - unemployment... Full with statistics, research... because it was about research that we also asked to understand. Perhaps, however, there is the argument to understand why it is being done, why it is being reduced for one month, the amount is there for such an amount. The questions were very specific, but, you know, I got two and a half pages - two and a half pages! - a reply to seven questions. And a further note that Mrs Petraviča (which this morning, thank God, is sitting here because she is a Member) will not be able to come tonight so that I can ask you further questions. Reading your interview in the Latvian News (of course I don’t know if you were present or sent electronically)... Even the interview “Latvijas Avīze” was much more extensive and complete with statistics than the replies to the Saeima Members. So I can tell you that your answers are above all an example of demagogy and an absolute lack of logic. If a student wrote it, I would certainly have to overwrite it. It's a job that has no scientific basis. For logic I could... Just one. The question was: ‘Do you follow any OECD recommendation when reviewing the amount of unemployment benefits and payout deadlines? What is the specific nature of the project?’ Answer: “In the OECD study, the method of calculating unemployment benefit and the duration of its payout was also evaluated for people linked to workplaces: Latvia. It was concluded that the amounts paid out by the unemployed person in Latvia may fluctuate extremely widely. According to OECD data, the amount of Latvian unemployment benefit in 2016 ranged from 9 to 269 percent of the average wage (Interview point.) and this can range from 25 to 767 percent of the minimum wage. These ranges were the largest of all OECD countries for which data were available (except possibly Finland, where there was no upper limit).’ The conclusion continues: ‘These findings show that sometimes the amount of benefit may be too low to ensure effective unemployment insurance, while in other cases it may be too high to maintain incentives for job search.’ You know, with such conclusions, you could propose that the Ministry of Welfare and the government as a whole cancel the unemployment benefit. For what? In order to be more motivated to be complete, especially because the question is: ‘Is the task of reducing unemployment benefits to be found in a declaration by the government of Mr Kariņš?’ Member and Minister replies: “Let’s get that all working people in Latvia are motivated to work.” If such a logic exists in the ministry and government, then let us really cancel! Especially because even ordinary residents... I mean, I need calculations, and I'm given a calculation that when I pay... For 12 months, the country is still settled... A pair of EUR 660 if a person receives a minimum wage. Here's the... For such calculations, such a logic should have been in your answers, not empty speeches...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U3	Thank you, speaking time is over. ‘ Against” said Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U4	Please vote in favour of the bill...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U5	“Pret” applied... you have the speaking time over, you have the microphone switched off. ‘ Against” said Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U6	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, First of all, this is the issue of the tax review, which will be addressed in 2021. As we have promised, taxation will be reviewed in 2021, not every year or half a year, with taxes on one side or on the other side. The proposal to reduce the rate of compulsory national social security contributions cannot be supported because, within the existing rate - without additional funding in the special budget - social insurance benefits such as parental benefit, paternity benefit, survivor's benefit, as well as pension indexation, which generally requires very large financial resources with an impressive long-term impact, have been more generous. Benefits on old-age and invalidity pensions for a long period were financed from the special social security budget without financial cover. In practice, the pension premium was to be financed from the basic budget. In order to provide at least a minimum pension for those who pay national social security contributions under special regimes (receivers of royalties, self-employed persons who are insured... It's just a pension... and pays five percentage points, micro-enterprises' employees, economic operators paying a patent fee, are in need of additional financing in the special budget. In order for the special budget for social insurance to be financially stable both against the impact of economic and financial crises as well as demographic, ageing challenges and to ensure financial commitment to future pensioners, the most important condition is the creation of a sufficient financial provision or reserve fund in the special budget. For unemployment benefits. The shortage of labour can be tackled in two ways: by means of a labour reserve, i.e. the unemployed and jobseekers, or by attracting foreign labour, which is predominantly from third countries. And one of the tools for activation of the workforce and motivation to return to the labour market is also the unemployment benefit system, which depends on certain conditions that may be more or less motivational. Therefore, please do not support. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U7	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance” to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” submitted by Member Liepiņa, Stepanenko, Smita, Gobzema and Sprūde be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U8	Dear colleagues, You have had a week to prepare for this vote and to reflect again on why you are here and what an example you are setting for the public. Perhaps you also thought about your colleagues at some point. I wanted to mention to you the example of Mr Stakis, who voted seemingly in favour of passing this bill on to the commission and putting it on the agenda, but unfortunately I see that Mr Stakis has written an application that he has simply made a mistake in the vote. I'm sorry. You might also ask yourself, ‘ Would you like to be like Members who like to leave the fur? ’ It may be that you do not want to be like such Members. Mr. Neighbours in the previous Saeima - 12. In the Saeima - together with Mrs Silvera's, she called for a similar draft law, a little softer though - it should be said that only one premium would be left to the Saeima Members on their salary. Personally, I do not agree with this, because there is even more competition and an even stronger struggle. Then all commissions will not be a job, but just a fight. But that's good. That is what we will leave. And... Yes, Mr Bondar, forgive me, but also 12. In the Saeima, you voted in favour of this draft law. I must be... You don't have to mention the fact that you've left a fur, but... It may be that you have really considered this week and have also thought over this week that, in fact, I think the coalition Treaty does not prevent you from supporting this proposal, because it is just a supplement from Members. They do not affect economic development, they do not affect some big budgetary issues, and, on the contrary, this is the best time to talk about it, because we have very many social groups, we have a lot of staff for whom this budget will not bring any joy. On the other hand, Members of the Saeima are guaranteed this pleasure by law, and the joy of premiums is also guaranteed by law. As Mrs. Liepiņa said at the previous sitting of the Saeima, your allowances and salary will only rise. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I call on you to really support this draft law, because if you do not support it, we will also continue the discussion, believe us! I would very much like us to introduce with you a tradition - the fact that work in commissions and competition for the management of commissions is manifested not by the one that I would like or would have had a higher premium, but by the one that really has more competence. Then there would be a competition that can better understand the case, which knows better, who can lead the commission. Because the Story of the Request Commission has shown us that someone in the Saeima has introduced a very... a really bad tradition (interdependence.) , where there is no competence, but an untiring struggle for someone to have a job, because someone has somehow lost it all the time. Finally, as a Member of the opposition... as non-group Members who do not have consultants, who may not be so... is not so friendly with the Saeima Administration, however, we asked for information about how we end up saving, how thousands or tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands or hundreds of thousands each year if we abolished these bonuses. I have to say that we have yet to deny this information. It's just mathematically calculated information, but the Saeima Administration has for now denied this information to us. Could not confirm this within one week. But when we have this information, we will come up with an annotation again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U9	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Note: “Yes!” ) So we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. Dear colleagues, Ten Members have asked for each Member to vote. Do Members have objections? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Bondars: “Yes!” ) So we also need to vote in favour of this proposal. Please call me! We will vote for the vote of each Member on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the decision was taken. The result of the vote shall not be taken. But two Members have asked for the floor on the motives for voting. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U10	Good morning, dear colleagues! In my opinion, all compensation to Members for additional office, including office in the Bureau, the management of commissions and also of political groups, should be abolished. The post to be filled, in addition to the basic work of the Members, must be an indication of the ability of the Member concerned to take up additional duties. And we must stop laughing at voters by confirming weak, incompetent and easily manipulated people in their positions. It must be pointed out that there are long-established coalitions, most of which are here, even the beaks have gathered the votes of the voters. Mr President, perhaps you are right that Members' salaries should be raised. But - not the quality of the parliament that it is today! There are Members who deserve to eat from mushrooms and berries, as you said sarcastically last week. I think this sarcasm was out of place. In my opinion, the leadership of the parliamentary committees should be rotated between the various political groups in order to avoid the lobbying of draft laws that a particular party wants or, on the other hand, the public need to hide an initiative in the drawer. This is my motivation to support the further progress of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U11	Name of Member Karina Sprude's report on the motives for voting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U12	Good morning, Madam President. Good morning, colleagues! 13. Report by Parliamentary Member Karina Srūde on the motives for voting on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” (hereinafter referred to as the draft law). In addition to Karina Sprūde, mentioned in the draft law, he fully supports the abolition of allowances for members of the Saeima in the performance of their work in one of the posts specified in the law. As one of the drafters of the law, Karina Sprūde draws attention to the fact that the waiver of bonuses contained in the draft law will promote voluntary, self-employed professional work. As an example, I would like to mention the work of the head of the municipal system development sub-committee of the National Administration and Municipal Commission established a year ago. He has tried to convene only two meetings all year round: one in January 2019 and one in September 2019. Not to mention any issues or the outcome of the work of that sub-committee. However, the statutory allowances for supposedly run commission shall be paid. It would be much more effective if, not only in this particular case but also in others, there were really stakeholders in the work and in the results of the work, whose only motivation would not be a supplement to salary or the need for political forces to take up a certain post. Also, focusing on and discussing the above-mentioned amendments to the law, it would be possible to update the issue and review the premium system and its usefulness also for municipal officials and employees, especially at a time when an administrative territorial reform is being developed, which is a topical issue for both the existing municipalities and the population affected by the reform. I am convinced that, in the course of the examination and adoption of this draft law, both from the coalition and from the opposition group will come up with constructive proposals to eliminate the inadequate and disproportionate allowances for officials and employees of state and municipal institutions. As has already been mentioned in the speech in the annex to this draft law and my colleagues, independent Members, the adoption of this draft law could be the beginning of an era of division and trade. On the basis of the above, Karina Sprūde, as one of the drafters of the law, has voted in favour of submitting this draft law to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government in the hope of the discussion, as well as in the hope of the proposal to put this matter right and, ultimately, the result in line with the interests of the people. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U13	We're going on with the legislative commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance” presented by Member Krauze, Reizniece-Ozola, Jalinska, Augūlis and Valaiņa be referred to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Uldis Augulis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U14	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, In order to support young parents and allow them to return to the labour market more quickly, the members of the Saeima Group of the Greens/Farms Union have prepared amendments to the law on maternity and sickness insurance. Currently, the law provides that the parental benefit for working parents is 30 per cent of the amount of the benefit granted. We propose that half-time or less working parents with a child are maintained in full, while full-time parents with children under three months are paid 30 per cent. We believe that such changes to the law will not only support young families, but will also promote activity in the labour market and thus economic growth, as parents will be able to resume work more quickly without losing their benefits. Similar proposals had been made at the previous sitting by colleagues from the Development/Par! Group. , but withdrew their signatures, apparently apprehensive of coalition discipline. I also call on the National Association to support this proposal, which... self is... because the National Association has defined itself as promoters and supporters of families and demographics. So that, colleagues, we will be responsible and understanding with regard to the new families! I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U15	Ms Ramona Petraviča has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U16	Colleagues! At the meeting of 17 September this year, the Cabinet of Ministers approved the payment of parental benefits to employees, i.e. 75 per cent of the granted parental allowance. The issue is included in the draft budget for 2020. The proposal to pay a one-hundredth of a parental benefit per part-time or less working parents cannot be supported because the Labour Act does not define the concept of ‘part-time work’. ( The utterance is, ‘ Oh, God! ’) ) Moreover, each employee may have different part-time and the State does not have full information on the time worked by the employee during the calendar month. Consequently, such a provision cannot be administered at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U17	Colleagues, we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance” to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 37, for - 50, for - 2. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that Dzintara, Schnore, Kola, Iesalnieks and Indricson's draft law "Amendment to the Law on General Education" be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ On” applied to speak Member Raivis Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U18	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, 12. During the parliamentary term, for the first time since 2004, an important step will be taken in the transition of educational institutions to training in the national language. The changes achieved resulted in a figure of up to 2021/2022. The school year ensures the transition of all secondary schools to studies only in Latvian, as well as that the proportion of language for grades 7-9 is set at 80 against 20 and 1-6 - 50 against 50. Although the actions of the majority of this Saeima and the Cabinet of Ministers would certainly be decisive, there was no clear decision about the most important. In particular, although important, this is just a step towards a complete transition of education into the state language from pre-school to secondary school. The new Saeima, the new government and each party represented in the Saeima must give an answer to this unanswered question - whether the increase in language proportions was the destination or just a step towards a normal situation where a country with one national language has a unified, not a separate, discriminatory education system. Dear colleagues, The purpose of the proposed amendment of the law is to approach education in the state language. Knowing that such decisions and implementation usually take time to take place, we offer to take another intermediate step to address the problem directly in the pre-school sector, where we believe that the problems are most acute. Already in 2016, the committee responsible by the Riga City Council was forced to admit, under pressure from opposition members, that the rows on Latvian kindergartens are significantly larger than the rows on a minority. 1725 children were applied for to Latvian kindergartens or groups, while only 784 were applied for to Russia. Even though during these years the line on kindergartens has dropped to about 1200 children, proportional demand for places in Latvian groups has increased. Thirty-eight of the Riga kindergartens have purely minority kindergartens, without Latvian groups, and some of them - with free places. The situation is that parents who want to send a child to a Latvian garden are forced to choose between paying a private service provider and perhaps sending a child to a Russian group. Dear colleagues, this is not normal! The proposed amendments to both laws impose an obligation on the municipality to provide an opportunity to receive a service in the state language at each of its pre-school educational institutions. These amendments do not necessarily mean that there can be no group in Russian, but they would prevent the discriminatory situation of families who want to send children to gardens... in national language. This summer, the Riga City Council opposition tried to reach a decision at municipal level. Unfortunately, the ruling majority was renouncing. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for support for the progress of this draft law. Apparently, the ruling power of the Riga City Council cannot be seen as having ended the occupation. And the children don't deserve to be kept in the captivity of the past. If the municipality is unable to act stately, then it is the responsibility of the state to intervene. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U19	“Pret” has applied to speak to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U20	Dear colleagues, What, then, has really happened? Well, we've already been told here that's probably what's going on. Of course, separate cases were discovered in Riga when the Latvian child was unable to be in the Latvian kindergarten next to his home due to queues. But it turned out that the nearby Russian kindergarten had free space. Is that bad? Yes, it is really very bad that there are problems with the availability of kindergartens... There are both Latvian and Russian-speaking children. So these individual cases have become the subject of discussion at the meeting of the coalition council on Monday. The same is very good in itself. Really! I just hope that the coalition council is also discussing the availability of health care and the lack of teachers. Well, this is not visible on the agenda, but it is possible that they are dealt with under the heading ‘Miscellaneous’. Do its problems need to be addressed? Definitely! Should they be addressed by putting parents of different nationalities in an unequal situation? Will the coalition soon also offer to deal with the line issue of health care? First of all, patients with the right nationality... According to the Preamble of the Satversme... But, colleagues, that picture is bigger, isn't it? Because we have the time for next year's budget. Have all the Members present voted for EUR 120 million for medical practitioners? Are you going to do the law? And all the time, in the largest budget with a tax revenue of EUR 510 million higher, you cannot find 120 million to honour this promise? ( UK Group: “Riga Transport needs to be subsidised!” ) And what about “3 × 500”? What about the liquidation of OIC? Are you going to fulfill at least one of your promises? And what must we do in this situation? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Zālīte-Gross: “Go home!” ) So we need one, two, three! National Association! National Association, come on, come here! The ethnic question must be raised. Well, the National Association also needs something to distract its constituents from how they will take care of the demographics next year, because the budget... the draft budget is full of demographic solutions and the number of newborns in the country for the second consecutive year is now... You understand, a full success story. The National Association, of course, is at the heights of its tasks - begins with the availability of kindergartens in accordance with the preamble to the Satversme, ends with a decision to abolish any education in Russian. Well, that's no more stuff! The coalition is, of course, thrilled. The new Unity with Prime Minister Kariņš already praises the triumph of justice when Latvian taxpayers' money will now be spent quite fairly only for education in the state language. Of course, Russian-speaking taxpayers are not considered by the Karina Government as human beings. But the head of government does not really have anything to blame. He implements his dream several years ago in an interview with the magazine Playboy. I will read: “We need those Russians who grow up here to grow into Latvians. We need to understand that integration leads to assimilation, and that must be our goal: to assimilate their children." Well, what do you say here? Everyone has a dream. One dreams of the welfare of his people, the other dreams of the assimilation of another nation. Dear colleagues, I could once again tell you about the interests of children, about the quality of education, about the rights of minorities enshrined in the Constitution, about international obligations, about the law of moral gold, about Christian values, about European values... You have been told about this for years by SPIRIT Members. And all this for you is empty... an empty sound! Dear colleagues, I would also like to appeal to my colleagues. After all, we are well aware of the views of our constituents on this reform of education. Only 9 percent of our voters support it, 18 percent believe that there should be loud protests, 65 percent do not support it, but believe that there should be compromises, and only 5 percent say nothing. We must finally tell our constituents the harsh truth that no one will look for any compromises with us here. It therefore remains the only way to fight for our own interests and those of our children. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U21	Colleagues! We must vote in favour of handing over the draft law to the commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law "Amendment to the Law on General Education" to the Commission on Education, Culture and Science, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes the draft law “Amendments to Education Law” submitted by Dzintara, Schnore, Kola, Iesalnieks and Indricsone (No. 408/Lp13) transferred to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Against” has applied to speak to Member Valery Agešins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U22	Dear colleagues, The National Association has prepared amendments to the Education Law, which obliges municipalities to ensure the acquisition of educational programmes in the state language in every municipal pre-school educational institution, including kindergartens of minorities, if requested by the parents of the child. We support the principle that the education system should promote quality learning of the Latvian language at all levels of education, but at the same time we do not agree that this goal can be achieved by preventing persons belonging to minorities from learning in their mother tongue, now extending this restriction to kindergarten babies. Unfortunately, these amendments can be seen in the context of this week's coalition council and loud statements on full transition - at all levels of education! - training in national language. By the way, some coalition partners chose not to comment. But when it comes to the draft law, the draft law has a number of weaknesses and very wide possibilities for interpretation. The draft law “Amendments to the Education Law” does not provide for the retention of minority programmes in pre-school institutions and does not in principle guarantee children the opportunity to learn pre-school education in their mother tongue. We believe that this draft law creates unnecessary social tensions in society, while at the same time being a legal crèche and an unfulfilled task for a number of municipalities. In addition, the legislative amendments require budgetary expenditure. I would like to remind the authors of the bill that taxes in our country are paid not only by Latvians, but by representatives of several nationalities - Latvian citizens and citizens. And any change in the field of minority education must not ignore the rights of minorities enshrined in the Constitution to preserve and develop their language, ethnic and cultural specificities. At the same time, we must all remember and understand that Latvian society was, is and will be ethnically diverse. It has always been so. And, thus moving to the Latvian language training of children belonging to minorities, the country ignores its international obligations. I will only remind you of two facts. The General Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, signed and ratified by Latvia, provides that if there is sufficient demand, persons belonging to minorities should have adequate access to education in minority language in the territory they live in, historically or in large numbers. The recommendations of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe also recommend that kindergarten training should take place in the child's basic language and that school curricula or a large part of the content of subjects should best be provided in minority languages. Therefore, I call on the people of Latvia not to split up and vote against this draft law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U23	“On” has applied to speak Member Jānis Iesalnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U24	Good morning, colleagues! For 50 years, Soviet power has been trying to russify Latvia. There are still parishes in Latvia, where there is no kindergarten in Latvian for Latvian children. ( FROM a faction: “There are no children there! ” The heirs of this Soviet government are sitting here in the hall, on the left, and try to find every excuse so that Latvia cannot return to normal when the state has the right to education in its mother tongue anywhere in Latvia. But their number is falling every year. Colleagues, our number is multiplying. Your time has passed, Interfront! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “This is my text!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U25	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -63, against -23, refrains - not. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law on trademarks presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, stating that it is the committee responsible! Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on the "Amendments to the Law on Waste Management" presented by the Member to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission be referred to the Committee for Economic, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ On” applied to speak by Daniel Pavluts.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U26	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Colleagues! Good morning! You know, now I have that... Again, the situation is that I must call on this Saeima to make a correction of errors. Just like we amended the law on the management of shares and companies of a public person in the spring, so that at last municipalities would also be subject to management requirements, which would probably have been prevented by “Riga traffic”... Also in the area of waste management. This law was passed at the time 9. The Saeima in 2010. Subsequently there have been amendments, there have been attempts to improve something, but failed, because in the previous compositions of the Saeima this correction of errors could not be made. If these amendments, which we are proposing today... if such a law had been in the past, there would have been no “clean” monopoly for 20 years. It would simply not be possible. Because the “pure” monopoly proposal has been presented by the Riga City Council only because the Waste Management Law has not eliminated it. We promised... When this whole saga of waste and drama developed in Riga, we promised that we would table these amendments. A few weeks ago we made this promise - both I and Juris Puce, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development - and here they are. Briefly on the substance. We therefore propose to amend the maximum time limit for public-private partnership procedures up to 10 years, as was originally proposed in 2009 at the Office of Ministers, I think... Then, here in the Saeima, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, amended 20 years. We offer to clearly and unambiguously write in the law that there can be no less than three waste management areas in Riga. Not one thing that has been done now, because the law does not prohibit. Three! At least three operators, which are not a single operator. In municipalities that are more than 50 000 inhabitants, and I hope that, after the administrative territorial reform has been completed, there will be more such municipalities - at least two zones, at least two operators. As in Liepaja, for example, right now. Not all cities act like Riga. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstin’s intermediate call sign.) What, please? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstin’s intermediate call sign.) We will be able to discuss this within the Commission. All right, I don't think I can talk to the hall, but when you talk about the other proposals (Minimum.) ... We will also restore to the law a proposal that was, at the same time, deleted... On which... I also objected to the deletion of this paragraph in the government when it was looked at, namely to allow environmentally friendly operators, such as supermarkets or manufacturing companies, to choose a waste company on their own market. In short, these proposals are concentrated on those objections and proposals sent by the Competitiveness Council to the Saeima and to the government for 10 years. In essence, perceive them as the proposals of the Competition Council. That's why I am calling for today's support... discuss within the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. I will be very happy if you help prevent the future waste crisis that happened in Riga a few weeks ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U27	Mr. Viktors Valainis has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U28	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! This bill... first of all, it would have been the most appropriate if this draft law had gone through at least some vision through the corridors of the government, so that all the parties involved would be heard, but now this challenge will come to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. What do I personally do not like in this bill, and where do I see concerns? One is that this is being dealt with in this... Well, let's say, in the background of Riga's bardaque, when the waste management is not the best thing at the moment in the capital... The problems that have arisen as a result of the capital and which may have to be covered by the whole of Latvian society are quite significant, and there is some solution... Sooner or later, we will all be forced to look for these solutions together. Yeah... But that's the situation... I would not like to say that this is the situation in the rest of Latvia. And some kind of systems have been created. Representatives of the National Association mentioned last Thursday as a good example of ZAAO, Vidzeme... the operator. And the question is: how will this draft law affect big players who are already on the market, serve whole regions and work very well, and who we can take as an example? I think it will be very... The impact will be very large. If we are talking about competition, everything is right. Competition is needed. We also need to achieve our climate targets and resolve other issues as well. However, I think that these will be such practical negotiations already in the Commission as is possible in the current situation and where this is possible in the current situation. Because the contracts have already been concluded... all over the rest of the region... However, what I find to be the most important thing here is precisely this remark about the entrepreneurs, the trade chains, which could then make contracts straight by choosing a supplier of their choice... You know, it's similar to public transport. If we put the route Riga-Daugavpils on free market conditions today, there will be free competition, there will be people going, and the price will become... Indeed, it is likely to become lower. But what these people are guided by the regions - the question remains unanswered. Who will then serve the unprofitable routes? Also waste and scrap. If you give back just that part of your profit... It's... Well, what... Of course, anyone is ready to pick up someday, a very elementary business to pick up, that's the profit... Who's gonna take that unprofitable part? And where's that waste going to go? Who will subsidise it? Now, admittedly, this happens through some form of cross-subsidisation. Is this the best system? Well, maybe you can better, but this offer, which is included here inside, will certainly make waste management tariffs higher, it serves the interests of individual, very specific entrepreneurs and is lobbying a long-standing idea of supermarket chains. I do not support such a draft law. I think I will also present proposals from my side in the course of the coming draft law. Thank you. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U29	Colleagues, we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law on waste management to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 78, for - no, for - 8. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda - consideration of draft decisions. Draft decision on the approval of the National Security Concept. On behalf of the National Security Commission, Member Inese Lībiniņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U30	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The concept of national security is a document prepared on the basis of the State Risk Analysis, which comprehensively outlines Latvia's national security situation and sets strategic principles and priorities for the prevention of national threats, which should be taken into account at a later stage when developing new policy planning documents, legislation and action plans in the field of national security. In accordance with Article 27 of the Law on National Security, the concept of national security is prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers, reviewed by the National Security Council and approved by the Saeima at least once in each term by 1 October of its first year of operation. And following the parliamentary tradition, the concept of national security is presented and discussed by the National Security Commission of each term. Ours, 13. At its closed session on 18 September this year, the National Security Commission of the Saeima, has examined the draft National Security Concept prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers at the Sanda Ģirgens Commission of the Minister of the Interior. In the Commission, we discussed in detail the issues contained in the project, we heard comments from both the Home Affairs Ministers responsible for design and progress, and representatives of other ministries, as well as from national security authorities. When examining the draft concept, the Commission unanimously decided to conceptually support the actual version of the draft National Security Concept prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers and the possible amendments discussed at the meeting of the Commission and to submit them to the Saeima for approval at the meeting of September 26th of this year, following the approval of the draft concept in the Cabinet of Ministers. We have also decided that, despite the fact that only the head of the commission or the vice-chairman on his behalf can make public comments on the issues dealt with in the closed session, the procedure, as examined, can be made public by all the former members of the National Security Commission present at the meeting, and they do so. I would like to emphasise that the concept of national security is a public policy planning document, so the wording contained in it is comprehensive, but only to the extent of detail that is permitted by a public document in the field of national security. The concept plays an important role in other further policy initiatives, and one such document is the National Security Plan. It will be a classified document that, unlike this concept, will include both concrete national risk neutralisation and prevention measures and measures. The new concept of national security has been developed over a longer period of time. It has been developed by the State Security Service in cooperation with other state security institutions, the Constitutional Protection Office and the Ministry of Military Intelligence and Security, as well as the Ministry of Defence, Foreign Affairs, the Interior, Culture, Economics and Transport. In contrast to previous concepts, this National Security Concept addresses areas of threat in a much more detailed way, including more detailed priority axes for addressing them. This applies in particular to sections dedicated to cyberspace and information space. The concept of national security is a broad document. We have had an opportunity for everyone to get to know this, and three of the ministers involved in preparing the concept, the Minister for Defence, the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Culture, are present today. Since the previous National Security Concept was approved by the Saeima in 2015, the international security environment has unfortunately not improved. When we think about the national security of our country, in addition to existing conflicts and disagreements, we must take into account and be prepared to face new risks and threats. It is therefore very important that our national security planning documents also include not only traditional forms of threats, but also look forward to new trends in the future, which we must take into account and which we must be prepared to prevent today. One of these global risks, which should not be invisible and which is also mentioned in the new national security planning document, is the international security dimension of climate change. Climate change - it is not a fashion case, it has already caused socio-economic damage to European Union Member States, including Latvia, but it will be accompanied in the future by new security challenges. Likewise, at a time when the full functioning of our country and society is increasingly dependent on information and communication technologies, cyber threats are increasingly on our agenda. In this area, it is necessary to recommend the Latvian State Security Authority and the Information Technology Security Incident Prevention Institution CERT.LV, whose ability to identify and prevent foreign intelligence, as well as cyber attacks by other cyberspace entities, has increased significantly. The new concept includes a number of priorities for identifying and addressing cyber threats. It is essential to continue and increase this development, while also raising public awareness and awareness of good cyber-hygiene compliance, including among economic operators. In Latvia's geopolitical situation... and the situation itself and the fact that we are in the area of foreign policy and influence of Russia are also to a large extent determined by the military and non-military security risks and threats of our country, which include both military and cyber threats, as well as Russia's efforts to influence internal political processes and also public opinion. That is why it is very important that this document, together with the priorities of Latvia's national defence, such as the further development and strengthening of national defence capabilities, the introduction of a comprehensive national defence system, building the battle readiness of NBS units and ensuring the presence of allies (The Hall of Noise). The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) is also intended to strengthen the internal security of our country. The concept emphasises that a unified and strong civil society with a common understanding of fundamental values and national geopolitical orientation is one of the key elements of internal security. We know that only a society in which every citizen feels socially and legally safe and secure, believes in his or her country, trusts in its administration and makes decisions based on information provided by reliable and diverse media can be truly strong and cohesive. It is therefore extremely important that the concept focuses on building a cohesive society, measures to protect the information space, as well as developing the capacity of the national strategic communication. One of the basic tasks of the National Security concept is to develop a common understanding in the state administration institutions about the current threats to Latvia's national security and how to manage them. The concept emphasises the need for the entire public administration to be involved in overcoming threats to national security by defining precise measures to strengthen its capacity. At the same time, ensuring national security is not possible without public involvement, therefore, alongside activities managed centrally by state institutions, a responsible, supportive and understanding attitude towards the state and its security is essential for every Latvian citizen. The comprehensive nature of this concept and the broad range of priorities for overcoming and preventing these threats make us aware that the national security of our country consists not only of them - our armed forces, our home and national security authorities, our allies in NATO and in the European Union - but also of us in various branches of state power and administration... on matters relating to security, foreign policy and strategic interests of our country, speaking in a coordinated and coordinated manner in one language, sending a clear and unambiguous message to the world, Europe and above all to our Latvian society. We, as a society, are united, knowledgeable, interested, able to recognise and prevent risks to our own and national security. Colleagues! The new concept of national security is a thoughtful, balanced and important planning document for national security policy, where the priorities included are comprehensive, balanced and are in line with our national security interests and current threats. Therefore, on behalf of the National Security Commission, I ask Members to support the concept of national security prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U31	Let us start a debate. Name of Minister for the Interior Sandis Girgens.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U32	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, In the context of the concept of national security, I would like to draw your attention to the link between national security and national development. What is the link between development and security of the country? There is reason to believe that human security is an important part of human well-being, and therefore security must be one of the main development goals of the country, Latvia. The lack of security affects the economic growth of the country, the personal well-being of every citizen and reduces the country's present and future opportunities. Fragmentary policies are unable to identify interlinkages and causalities, unjustified priorities without an assessment of effectiveness, unclear and rounded objectives. The manual reallocation of financial resources without fully strengthening the internal security of the country leads to a physical lack of human security, hinders economic growth of the country, and potential. It also naturally leads to inequalities between the population, social strata, tensions, physical abandonment and creates the ground for potential conflicts, which respectively pose a risk to comprehensive security and national sovereignty. The concept of national security contains a detailed analysis of risks - as the colleague from the National Security Commission has literally just referred to. What is the proven link between national development and security? ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) The concept of national security contains the correct formula. State security is based on the obligation to strengthen the internal and external security of the country with a united, loyal society, with the understanding and free will of every individual to defend their country – their homeland Latvia. Public distrust creates security risks for public authorities and officials, so it would be important to establish a dialogue with the public and work in the public interest. I really believe that the country's external and internal security is an integral part of its development processes. Such a link is also established and read in the concept of national security. A manual re-allocation of state budget resources according to political parties' priorities, depending on what the Ministry has come under a political power, does not contribute to stable, growing country development and progress in the long term without a more in-depth analysis of its understanding and economic benefits. And we are changing this understanding of state development and the concept of security. The country must make full use of its potential. Budgetary programming periods must be able to fully satisfy all public functions that are causally increasing the well-being and security of the population. So we come to the main narrative again - find the regularity that generates the state's development processes, and why we do not fully appreciate the internal security potential of the country as the cornerstone of Latvia's development (I would say, the national brand on the international stage)... Against the background of global and European security risks... and this reality. We can see that safety risks are increasing. Indeed, security risks in the world and in the European Union are increasing. Terrorism, cyber security, organised crime... The capital is always looking for a safe and legal, economically attractive space. And that, in my opinion, must be Latvia. I really believe that security is a Latvian iPhone or Skype. Finally, what is the safety of a human being in its broadest sense? Human rights, effective and legal public administration, access to quality education, health care. How, then, can all of this be ensured if there is no natural resources to address these risks, which prevent people from feeling safe and from living a healthy and dignified life? Shadow economy, corruption, financial crimes, tax fraud, organised crime, which is constantly seeking ways to root and strengthen public administration, politics, law enforcement institutions and the judiciary. Unless all these risks are substantially reduced and adequately resourced, we cannot talk fully about the country's comprehensive development, security and future development prospects. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I would, however, ask for the acceptance of the concept of national security. We will certainly work on the National Security Plan, which will provide for precise tools to address these risks, how we will potentially develop this country and people's well-being with certain regularities. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U33	Thank you to the Minister for the Interior. Name of Minister for Culture Naurim Puntulis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U34	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very respectable. Dear Members! Honourable Members! This concept of national security is a very important document for the existence of the state and for the security of the state, on which the National Security Plan and the precise directions of its action will be developed, including those under the supervision of the Ministry of Culture, including those areas where the Ministry of Culture has already submitted its proposals and participated in the process of creating this document. The proposals are part of this concept of national security. The Ministry of Culture is ready to continue work on the National Security Plan as well as on precise directions of its action in cultural policy, strengthening media space and media literacy, of course also in building a cohesive and civicly active society. The concept of national security confirms that the principle of national existence is not only a shared responsibility of politicians but of every member of society. The concept of national security will allow for a more precise treatment of actions in the areas of cultural policy as issues of national security. I call on the Saeima to support the concept of national security.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U35	Name to the Minister of Defence, Mr Pabrik.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U36	Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Members! Position! The opposition! ( Internouncing call.) Today, there is an important vote in my view, and I think this discussion on the concept of national security is very important. Because in recent years the security situation in the Baltic region, the Baltic Sea region, Northern Europe and the world in general has changed. After the beginning of Ukraine's war in 2014, relations between Europe, the Member States of the European Union, NATO Member States on the one hand and Russia on the other have intensified; a number of international treaties and agreements have been violated. And most importantly, mutual trust has been lost. Whenever we talk about international relations, about security, it is essential that trust exists between countries and between people. Because otherwise... you can make what contracts you want, but they only have paper value if countries and people are not prepared to hold on to these contracts and agreements. We are now in this situation. Looking at Latvian and Baltic geopoliticals, we can see that our country has unfortunately never been a country or a geographical place that would not be interested in anyone. In a way, it's even good, because when there's a time of peace, we can, of course, flourish, because we're going here, want to trade with us, want to cooperate with us, we want to invest here. But if the conditions of war or the conditions of the crisis come, we are often the first to suffer. Our demographics show that. In 1913 there were about 2.6 million inhabitants in Latvia, at the time there were about 3 million inhabitants in Finland. On the other hand, there are currently 2 million in Latvia, and in Finland over 5 million. These are two world wars, it is the Communist regime, it is the occupation of the Soviets, it is the emigration of our citizens and all the other consequences that we pay for. We are determined never to prevent and be prepared for such a crisis. As mentioned in the National Security Concept, a comprehensive public response is therefore needed. This means that, above all, we need to change public opinion and public culture with regard to security issues. In the Ministry of Defence we have taken a number of measures to promote the change of attitude and thinking in Latvian society. We see that we need to act against a very strong propaganda machine, which comes through the media controlled by other countries, which is trying to divide and fragment the European Union, which is trying to divide and divide NATO and Western society as a whole, and also our country. We can see that cyber-attacks are constantly taking place. Of course, we don't sit down, we put our hands in the lap. We have strengthened our cyber defence in Latvia, we are on a good level here. We have opened the centre of excellence for NATO's Strategic Communication, which has gained great recognition in the world in recent years. We are also thinking about introducing protection of the so-called comprehensive state in Latvia. What does that mean? It would have been discussed in the past as simply a total national defence. We are taking over here the experience from neighbouring countries where this case has already been rooted, such as Finland, Sweden and Norway. And that means that in our protection and security we want to stand on two feet, not just on one foot. It is one of the internal solidarity between NATO and NATO, guaranteed by our allies today, with their presence on the territory of Latvia, where representatives of more than nine Member States are present, but we want Latvian society to do as much as possible, which means close cooperation between Latvian state institutions and local governments, entrepreneurs and society as well. Society and families must be prepared for the crisis and know what they can do for the first 72 hours if such a crisis occurs. We also plan to introduce a protection lesson in Latvia's education system - one day a month, which will prepare our young people for different crisis situations, promote mutual trust and solidarity, and will not make us be surprised if we do not give God in crisis situations.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U37	Minister, the time for the debate is over!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U38	We're also... I'm about to finish... We have also planned to open the first Cadet School in Latvia, which will prepare our new generation of officers.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U39	Minister, you can ask for a further debate, two minutes. If necessary.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U40	I'm asking... call... I think I'll finish this speech right away... ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U41	The debate is over. Do Members have objections to additional time... Is that so? ( The box “Yes! ”) ; “No!” ) There is no objection. So, two more minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U42	Thank you for the extra time. I don't want to drag too long my speech. I would like to say that there is much to be done, and I would like to thank the Ministry of the Interior and the State Security Service for having prepared the concept of national security. We, on the part of the Ministry of Defence, have also attached our share of this concept to the National Armed Forces. I think that we will be able to continue to discuss this issue at the beginning of next year when we talk about foreign affairs... When there will be an annual discussion on foreign policy, here too we will participate from the departments of the Ministry of the Interior and Defence. In this particular case, the concept of national security is a very realistic reflection of the situation in our region and shows that, with each year, we are becoming more mature and more ready for various crises - which we hope will never come - because we are promoting resilience. If our potential opponent, I would not even like to say an enemy, understand that we are ready for such crises, then he will have a very small appetite for starting something. I wish all of us good luck and that we would never have too much security! Thank you, and I call for your support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U43	Thank you to the Ministers for Home Affairs, Culture and Defence for the debate at the Saeima. We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U44	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Since 11 September 2001, each serious country has included the financial sector in its National Security Concept. I am pleased that, finally, in September 2019, Latvia also included the financial sector in its National Security Concept, because the concept that we approved on 26 November 2015 about the financial sector had no words. I am glad that during this time, public institutions and the private sector have been set up... ( Internouncing call.) awareness, coordination and communication have developed. This, of course, makes Latvia a more serious player in the financial sector in the world. In the future, of course, by recording... In the future, of course, we must improve the supervision of the financial sector. I would perhaps like to define it in a slightly different way - that Latvia should be better integrated into the global financial industry. This means both private sector and public sector cooperation and supervision. And this is a serious challenge. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Adamson: “It means you don’t steal!” ( ) What are these next steps? Those next steps are very simple for us. Those next steps are for us to choose, for the next four or five years, those officials who will lead the Financial and Capital Market Commission and the Bank of Latvia. And that is very serious, because, as far as we want the institutions, laws, regulations to govern everything, it is also very important for us that the individuals who lead these institutions place these accents that are important to these institutions. This makes Latvia either stronger or weaker in the global financial industry. Therefore, colleagues, those next steps are very clear. In the long term or in four years, inclusion in the global financial industry is essential – essential! - component. And post scriptum, or P.S. I hope that in these four years, our eyes have opened up that not all the financial industry players (and not just banks) who come from abroad are reliable and secure partners. So let's look at everyone and see what the risks come from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U45	The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U46	Dear colleagues, Following the approval of the National Security Concept, work will be started on the development of the National Security Plan, including specific measures to be implemented by national authorities to mitigate threats related to national security. Therefore, I would like to draw the attention of the author, including the Cabinet of Ministers, to certain areas and details, to express my opinion on the basic principles and priorities that I hope the government will take into account. In any case, on individual themes, I would work harder and pay more attention to certain innovations. The concept of national security highlights that internal security is related to the sense of security of Latvian citizens in everyday, socio-economic situation in the country. And one of the key elements of internal security is a unified society. It should be borne in mind that the unity, development and coherence of society are influenced by different historical experiences and values and different historical memory of the population. ‘ At the same time, social inequalities in Latvian society are growing, but part of the population does not feel confident about their material situation and financial opportunities in the future.” Can it be different in our country? I think, at least for now, no. Because Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš estimates, for example, that the 2020 budget is socially responsible, but at the same time the ministers of his government... For example, the Minister for Health Ilze Viņķele states that the expectations of many workers in the health sector are disappointed. The Minister of Culture, Nauris Puntulis, also thinks that the increase in wages planned next year in the cultural sector is simply a extinguishing of the fire. I believe that in recent years, including this year's budget, there has been a new and quite unpleasant trend: not to do what has been promised, even to do what has been written in sectoral legislation (I think it applies to both higher education funding and funds for medical and other areas). It is not surprising, therefore, that ‘the internal security environment has a negative impact on the public’s low level of trust in public administration and political parties, which in terms of number of members... are facing difficulties in ensuring a stable long-term functioning’. The concept of national security has repeatedly stressed that building a unified society is one of the priorities for internal security and the prevention of threats to the constitutional system. And this time the concept integrates in principle new themes and approaches. The authors believe that “contributed society also consists of minorities living in Latvia, therefore the state must implement an inclusive minority policy, involving them in social political processes and decision-making”. And literally it says that "it is important to promote the active involvement of minority representatives in the work of local governments and public administrations". There are several questions for the authors of the concept: what practical steps might be, as it will look like in real life, and whether this is about positive discrimination, about quotas in public administration or something else. Another recommendation of the authors of the National Security Concept is that "the public media must speak with different target audiences". One of the specific target groups of Latvian public media is the Latvian minorities. For public media, “this target audience must display and offer a qualitative and understandable alternative to the information sources representing the Russian information space, providing options”. But I am not sure, for example, that Latvian public television is over and will handle this task. Unfortunately, there are a lot of problems and unanswered questions, and I do not know if the Cabinet of Ministers... whether the Minister for the Interior and other ministers present will be able to answer these questions. In any case, I will be happy if you respond. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U47	Mrs. Steel, will you have enough two minutes? One thing. We will then obviously continue the debate after the break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Dear colleagues, today's birthday is celebrated by the Member of the Saeima Nikolai Cabanov, and we welcome him! (Applause) Name for Maria Golubeva as soon as they are available.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U48	Not registered: Ilmārs Dūritis, Kaspars Ģirgens, Inese Ikstena, Maris Kučinskis, Janīna Kursīte... The cake is, Janīna Kursīte, Anita Muižniece, Arthur Tom Ples, Eriks Pucens... Ēriks Pucens is, Mārtiņš Staķis, Inese Voika... Yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U49	Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U50	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. The draft decision on the approval of the National Security Concept is on the agenda. We are continuing the debate. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Name of Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U51	Good morning, Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! National defence, protection of independence and democracy require work on many fronts, not only on the classic military front. ‘ ... the protection of the State by military means alone is no longer sufficient because it does not cover all the edges of hybrid threats.’ ( Cited from the concept ahead of us today.) Today I would like to talk about one of these edges. It is the protection of the information space. We all see and feel that other countries are able to influence our societies not only in the military but by manipulating our own public opinion, weakening the ability to make decisions that are appropriate to a democratic society and well-informed, weakening the ability of society to defend itself. The concept points to the weakness of our media environment. These are structural challenges to the sustainability of commercial media, the long-term inadequate amount of funding for public media and the exchange of information in the media environment globally, which requires all media to look for modern, contemporary audience habits to readers, audiences or viewers. This weakness in the media environment is being used by neighbouring countries to purposefully implement their information policy aimed at influencing our public opinion or distorting it. The concept of national security is addressed... these issues and propose ways to reduce or eliminate these risks. There are currently a number of initiatives on the Saeima's agenda that respond to these challenges. In active consultation there is a new public media law aimed at creating quality management as well as adequate funding for our public media. The Saeima's agenda also includes the issue of support for commercial media. It is not only a Media Support Fund, which will be in the draft budget, but also a proposal for the Saeima to remove a major obstacle to the sustainability of independent regional media. They're... competition-distorting local government expenditure subsidised with taxpayers’ money. But the main task of the Saeima right now is to be aware of the security threat in all its diversity. We need to be aware of, and follow, this awareness. Many years ago, Latvia decided that security is sought within NATO. We knew, decided and joined NATO. Latvia also decided that, as a NATO member state, it sets itself the goal of taking action over several years... as... to reach the NATO target of two per cent of GDP for national defence. Today, the concept of national security marks new challenges and, in my opinion, it is necessary to set ourselves the objective once again for the protection of the information space. It will not be NATO's two percent, but I call for it to be 0.2 percent. Small two percent achieved over several years would make a significant contribution to strengthening the information environment... Let these little two be just as important in the future as the big two have been within NATO. Our security requires this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U52	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U53	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I will, of course, vote in favour of the concept of national security, but there is one chapter, or issue, that is not fully covered by this concept. I hope that these proposals, which I will make, may be reflected in the plan. First. Border area. You know, at the external borders of the European Union... The border area is very important for citizens to be there, so that there is no shortage associated with poor infrastructure development, entrepreneurship. All this must be in plan, because when a citizen feels certain, when he has a job, when he has a guarantee of a normal, equal life, as it is in another territory of Latvia, in the rest of Latvia, then its safety is much greater. One example: Since 1996, the municipality has initiated one road project, a perimeter project along the eastern border of the country. This was called the road project ‘Eastern String’. I was one of those initiators, too. As a result of decisions taken by various governments, for example, this project has been carried out only partially. It has not yet been completed, but where roads are organised within the framework of this project, there is entrepreneurship, where operational services - border guards, police - are much easier to move, they can perform their tasks more effectively. I would also like to see this road project "Eastern String" included in the plan. I ask those Members who will be working on this plan to take this into account. Second. Changes were made in the Ministry of the Interior as a result of reforms. In essence, it affected rural areas, including border areas. The number of police officers was reduced, optimisation took place, regionalisation took place. As a result, I can mention, for example, the number of police officers in the former Krāslava and Prize Centres has halved. The situation is that, for example, in Kraslava, the Prizes are problematic with night watch. So there's no police, no on-call police, to whom citizens could ask for help in night hours. Of course, while working at the time, we found a certain solution - these functions were taken by the local police together with the State Police. This has been partially resolved in the awards, but at the expense of municipal funding and resources. Is that right? This issue should, however, also be addressed. Should this safety also not be reflected in the plan as a solution for citizens in night hours? Third. I was looking forward to a positive solution to the issue of the Ministry of Agriculture... “Latvian State Forests” will buy forest property, land property, when one foreign, Scandinavian company wanted to sell them. You know, for example, that in the area of the former Ludza district it is now so that almost one third of the territory does not belong to the citizens of our country. Unfortunately, this issue continues. I think the law... at least on the border, on the eastern border, there should be a public public limited company or a state of its own advantage, or priority, to acquire real estate, which is one of our main resources - national resources. And it is, in fact, a worrying issue across the country: the issue of real estate belonging to our citizens. Finally, I would like to say that great expectations, however, we are trying to put an administrative territorial reform...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U54	Mr Kazinovsky, I have to say that the speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U55	Got it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U56	Name to Member Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U57	I would like to combine the two times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U58	Are Members opposed to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U59	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Sir, Colleagues! Resurrection! The National Security Concept has an important role to play in building a cohesive and strong civil society and promoting public participation in social political processes. We need to work more actively to make young people more active so that young people become leaders in youth organisations and others, and the non-governmental sector needs to be substantially strengthened. I hope that some of my points will be taken into account when drawing up the detailed plan. Latvia is as strong as its civil society, which consists of every citizen of Latvia. Public confidence in public administration is important. Since autumn 2017, the proportion of Latvian citizens who have indicated that they trust the Latvian government (from 27 percent to 31 percent) and the Latvian Saeima (from 20 to 21 percent). Latvia has low confidence in political parties. Only 10 percent of the population trust them. How to change it? The President of Latvia has recommended his proposals. One of them was very much connected. The parties must become even more open to young people, and young people must be respected; there must be no indifferent attitude towards young people, especially at the Saeima. Because in its event “Youth Saeima” members are not active. That is why I call on us to improve this and to improve it in spring when we meet 10. Youth Saeima, be active. When you see what is happening in the world, you can conclude that the power of young people is only growing. An example is environmental activist Greta Tounberga, who advocates active action on climate issues. Last Friday, a move took place in Latvia and more than 300 young people took part in it. There are also many young people and young people in Latvia who are inspired by their actions. Today, the UN climate change conference is attended by the first Latvian UN youth delegate Christiana Plate, who defends the interests of young people. The portal tuesi.lv has more than 100 different stories of young people, as they do good things in Latvia. Today, youth leaders work in municipalities and youth organisations as youth specialists and youth workers. Their capacity needs to be strengthened. The Eurobarometer survey shows that the rise in young people's activity in the elections to the European Parliament (mostly since 1994) was the result of high levels of activity. The concept of national security emphasises that schools... and youth policy implementation... Implementation must be specifically focused on promoting youth social activity, research of parish, district and national history events, involvement in decision-making, thus developing both local patriotism and belonging to the Latvian state. Strong youth organisations and non-governmental organisations working with children and young people can significantly improve this. That is why we must in particular strengthen support for youth organisations, and we can do this through the national youth policy programme that the government is committed to improving... and he does it... Because it is important to invest in young people already today, so that they can be active tomorrow. Building a cohesive society is the responsibility of several public bodies. The activities of the responsible bodies must be coordinated in the design and implementation of a common policy of public cohesion. You don't have to wait for an annual Ombudsman's report to the Saeima... where it is repeatedly pointed out that public authorities and local authorities are unable to cooperate with each other. We need to create mechanisms, assess risks before and be able to implement methods that promote effective cooperation. Public participation in public policy processes should be encouraged by public participation in decision-making processes and promoted by non-governmental organisations. The state must therefore systematically provide support to non-governmental organisations. This is also the case in municipalities. Of course, this must be done in respect of fair tenders, with clear, fair delegation agreements. The national NGO fund set up in 2015 is an excellent tool to support civil society initiatives. The NGO fund is not sufficiently financial. This government has increased the size of this fund, but it must continue to do so. We need to provide national funding for such a fund, so that we do not have to rely significantly on external funding. We could significantly strengthen the national NGO fund by transferring to their inefficiently managed funding from ministries and municipalities, about which the State Audit Office has indicated in its audits irregularities, inefficiencies and suspicions of irregularities. Organisations need to provide tools and more support to accelerate their development. We have organisations that operate at national level and also help the country to fulfil important tasks. Also those that can strengthen national security. Recently, I met with representatives of ManaBalss.lv and they mentioned that effective and qualitative solutions are unfortunately not enough with 5 or 15 thousand big gravels, which have been divided into open competitions. There is also a need for more funding. I agree that the meaning of ManaBalss.lv should not be explained here in the Saeima. ManaBalss.lv is just one example. A common language is also one of the main aspects that strengthens the sense of belonging to the national cultural space and reduces ethnic fragmentation. Research shows that the proportion of Latvian-language users among minority representatives is increasing, and most importantly this is seen in the latest age groups. In 2015, only 21 percent of minority representatives in Latvia assessed their ethnic relationship as good or very good, while in 2017 it was already 48 percent. I wouldn't touch in more detail, but I am glad that the concept of National Security also includes important activities such as the development of the Diaspora policy, media literacy, and the development of critical thinking. This is a valuable and high-quality document. I would like to thank the developers. I would like to conclude by calling: let us avoid and dissipate society with unwise political initiatives that bring temporary benefits without proper communication, cause public concerns...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U60	Mr Stein, the debate is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U61	... who are not noticed and respected. We are about Latvia, where there is a chance for all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U62	Name of Member Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U63	Hello, colleagues! I listened carefully to the thoughts of experts and colleagues about the threats that directly or indirectly affect Latvia's national security. Undoubtedly, our national security is linked to the development of the situation in the international security environment. We live in a globalised world where events in one country can unexpectedly affect other countries. I welcome the fact that much is planned to prevent terrorism and military attacks, as well as to promote the country's cyber security, but I believe that even more attention should be paid to strengthening the country's internal security. In particular, to make our citizens feel safe in Latvia and to know that the country will protect them abroad as well. In this context, I call for the inclusion of the concept of national security as a priority for the elimination of trafficking in human beings. It should be noted with regret that Latvia is both a donor country, a transit country and a destination in the human trafficking chain. Increasingly, our citizens are being undermined by human trafficking schemes in Latvia and abroad, and we are not always able to help our citizens as a country. The Minister of Defence is working on a comprehensive national defence system. This is a very correct step, because only a set of coordinated and well-thought-out measures can deliver results. I believe that a similar approach - systemic and comprehensive - should be to eradicate trafficking in human beings. At present, several institutions are working within their capacity to prevent and combat trafficking in human beings, but unfortunately, these efforts are often uncoordinated. It is unacceptable that in the 21st century, our people become victims of human trafficking, are exploited and humiliated. On Monday, together with the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, we held a conference "Towards a national plan for the eradication of trafficking in human beings". We found that everyone could become a victim of human trafficking. Often the responsible authorities do not know the victims and provide them with timely assistance. I have to say that I have faced the problem of human trafficking not only as a Member but also as a writer. About half a year ago, I was entrusted with the story of one survivaler of human trafficking from Latvia. I was surprised, shocked, and perhaps even traumatized, learning what she had to endure and what to meet. As a writer, I can make a story or novel out of it to inform and arm others, but as a Member I can - and we can all together! - do a lot more. Once again, I would like to stress that I think it would be necessary to include the elimination of trafficking in human beings as a separate priority in the concept of national security, because the protection of human rights and freedom is one of the guarantees of internal security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U64	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov. Are there any objections to merging the time of the debate? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U65	Madam President, Dear colleagues, The design of the concept of security reminds me of student times. Then, when preparing the course works, especially cunning friends took away the old course works from the closet and added new data there, and in fact... and got a mark of four. However, I feel that there are very many general phrases in this document. In particular, I think that the energy section of the lame is very much. Yesterday, as we know, Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš met with the members of the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly, and there he mentioned that Latvia still remains connected to Russia and receives electricity from Russia, and it is planned to do so in the future. This concept does not even mention what further development of our electricity will be, as is our attitude towards the Astravjeca nuclear power plant in Belarus, which is an essential factor in the whole region. Instead, there's a lot of... empty phrases about the information war and so on. I would like to point out to you that the outstanding Finnish national marshal Mannerheim once said: “The standard of living that they want to defend must be created before they ask people to defend the country.” The concept of national security does not cover social security, health care and demographics. Instead, the Minister of Culture came to us today. All due respect to Mr Puntulis, but I think it would be better for the Minister of Economics to speak here. Yesterday, the outstanding demographer Ilmārs Mežs spoke at the Commission for Citizenship, Migration and Public Solidarity and said that in Latvia, the population has fallen by 27 percent since 1990. This is the worst indicator in the European Union. And instead of solving the demographic problems, the officials wrote to us in this draft concept all things about how we citizens should think. Here are some quotes. ‘ Cultural spaces, social and historical memory of society play an important role in building a cohesive society. The aim is to strengthen citizens' sense of belonging to the state, to develop a common understanding of historical events and to increase cohesion between citizens." End of quote. In this context, I would like to point out that cultural and social psychological matters do not at all concern the competences of force structures. But the intervention in these areas reminds me very much of the times when the KGB was established in the sadly famous 5th administration, which was invited to fight the ideological diversity. Another fragment. It is worth quoting: “The basis of civil society is patriotic families who feel belonging to their country. Further work on a clearer definition of the fundamental values of the Latvian State and their consolidation in the daily life of the citizens of [...] already from the pre-school age creates a state-owned and loyal new generation with a common orientation of values.” End of quote. Here too, I cannot see the desire of some humanitarianly trained experts in police applications to control all aspects of privacy. What you're doing to our children, including preschool age... This is our case, not yours, ladies and gentlemen! Child rearing is a task of parents, and there is no involvement of the Ministry of the Interior there! The concept of national security also says a lot about the informational threat of Russia to Latvia and it is proposed to create a unique ministry of truth. Text: “A centralised national strategic communication and information space security coordination mechanism is needed to allow for a timely and effective response to specific threats, including coordinated crisis communication capabilities.” End of quote. Tell me why you don't trust Latvian media like this. Do you think Latvian journalists are so weak, so cowardly? It seems to me that there are some packages against the media on the part of the officials. In my opinion, these proposals and other proposals include the intention to establish a structure of censorship and to violate Article 100 of the Satversme on freedom of expression and the prohibition of censorship. For many years, Latvia has been taking care of an electronic media control institution, which has become an unnecessary wheel in the state circles and attracts constant scandals, and requires substantial funds for nothing. Why do we need another official feed? The concept needs to be substantially redrafted and removed from its elements of political interference in the functioning of the civilian institutions. In this place it's making... In this way, its adoption is a threat to Latvia's democracy. Please vote national!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U66	Name to Member Juris Rancan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U67	Hello, colleagues! I am, of course, calling for support for the concept of national security, which is quite well and detailed enough, but I would like to note a few things. First. We are talking a lot about cyber security lately. At the same time, Latvia has companies from different countries in the field of information technologies, including companies from unfriendly countries. I ask you to think about it. I also ask you to think about the security of every individual computer and also your phone. And I call on the institutions, ministries, municipalities and other state institutions to follow the recommendations made by the State Security Service and to use in the procurement of information technology products and services only products and services certified in NATO or the Member States of the European Union that meet international security requirements. Secondly. As regards the influence of neighbouring countries on propaganda, disinformation and false news on our media space, I would like to remind you of the rather sad, if not regrettable fact that since 2015 it has still not been possible to perceive Latvian television channels at the eastern border, but there are very many possibilities to perceive Belarusian and Russian channels. In a package of socio-economic situations, I believe that this represents a very high risk and I call for these problems to be tackled as quickly and effectively as possible. Thirdly. On the issue of damage caused by foreign intelligence services. Estonia, our neighbour, is very active, to be said, discovers to the public cases of spies caught. In order not to create unnecessary speculation about the capabilities of our security authorities, I will also call on our security authorities to inform the public as much and more actively as possible about their achievements, about their success in taking spies, about criminal proceedings and about the damage prevented. And finally. As regards the internal security dimension, I would like to point out that, in my work, I am increasingly faced with situations where victims of crime have to fight for their own rights. I am increasingly confronted with complaints from citizens that the work of law enforcement agencies, the work of officials is formal and does not actually create a sense of security. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “But what is the Minister for Justice?” ) We can see this from the point of view of the choice of security measures for persons who have proved their public danger in practice. That's why... To the end of the talk... I call on every public official to remember that public law and public administration are people, not people, law and public administration. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U68	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U69	Dear colleagues, On the concept itself, I am of the opinion that more than half of it could not be written if this concept included important things such as demographics, health and social security, because these are the areas that our government is trying to finance most. And it is not clear whether this standard of living, which currently exists in our country, would really be ready to defend our people with our heart and soul. I think this is the most important aspect of our security. Not what is so much written in this concept. But if we are talking about the procedure for adopting this concept and how you look at our allies right now, I have some words to say. In my view, after all the documents attached, the wording available in them leads to the conclusion that the formal procedure provided for by law has not been followed. Unfortunately, this shows once again a fall in the quality of the Saeima's work. What do we see that is attached to this concept? Letter from the President of the Commission, draft decision, draft draft of the Cabinet of Ministers with the full concept and report on the correction of the error. Colleagues! This concept, of course, should have been approved by the National Security Commission. And this is about the concept prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers. It is not about different versions, current versions or other versions that have travelled from the Cabinet of Ministers to the Saeima back and forth. Unfortunately, none of the documents can be found that the version prepared specifically by the Cabinet of Ministers, which came on 24 September, has been approved by the Commission. It has confirmed, according to Mrs Lībiņa-Egnere, the version to be submitted only to the Cabinet of Ministers by the Girgen. Finally, I would like to read the accompanying letter of 26 November 2015 entitled 'On the concept of national security' to the Saeima Bureau... how it should be. ‘ In its meeting of 11 November this year, the National Security Commission has examined the concept of National Security, prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers and supported by the National Security Council. The Commission has decided to submit the concept of national security to the Saeima for approval and is asking you to include the draft decision on the approval of the national security concept on the agenda of the Saeima meeting on 26 November this year.’ This document is accompanied by things that we cannot find here. So: the very concept, the report of the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, the decision of the National Security Council on one page, the opinion of the National Security Commission and the draft decision of the Saeima. What do I mean by that? I mean, this is... This is the first case in the last 10 years, when the concept of national security comes with such a range of accompanying documents. Of course, Solvita Aboltiņa, who has previously led the National Security Commission... There may be different opinions on her, but at least one is that she has never been a diletter. Thank you, colleagues. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U70	The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U71	Dear colleagues, Brothers Kāvāte wrote life’s work “The Times of Mayors. ” There is one such good saying that speaking to men has power in the hand. Today, when discussing this concept, it is absolutely clear that men of speech have power in their hand... Nothing changes in substance. Unfortunately, I don't listen for the first time and look at the National Security Concepts... Those who spoke and said that it is not very different from the previous one - they are absolutely right. Maybe some kind of cooperation has been added, but... If we discuss concepts... and I had the honour of working on the development of many concepts... any concept is primarily based on an assessment of reality. Looking at the reality, we can see what to do next. The concept contains very beautiful words that “The prerequisite for the existence of Latvia as a state is a responsible attitude of all Latvians towards the state and its security”. This obviously also affects politicians, members of the Saeima, representatives of the government, first and foremost. As a result of the increase of threats, the strengthening of areas beyond the remit of the common security and defence policy, such as border security, information, cyberspace security, energy security and others, should be given increasing importance. And now we look at what is happening to us in reality. We have many different ministries announcing many different reforms, but it was a common denominator, a common vision, as it were, it was not! We are dealing with territorial reform, education, medicine, home affairs reforms, but how would this come together? Nobody can answer. You know, here too, much has been said, but for some reason no one has paid attention to what the Minister for the Interior said - that representatives of organised crime strengthen their position in public administration structures, so obviously also in local government structures. Perhaps he was thinking of those Members who were extradited for prosecution, or other bodies where... we'll still have to decide how to extradite them... The biggest problem in our country is incompetent officials, incompetent government and also in Parliament. You can talk a lot, but what is happening in reality? Ten years passed before the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption forced the government to approve the Economic Mobilisation Plan. Why was it to be designed and approved at the time? The then Minister for Economics, Krišjānis Kariņš. Not 10 years ago. A law has been passed. The Government must draw up and adopt a National Civil Protection Plan. It's been two years... There's nothing! What are we talking about? What kind of security? Where are we going? All these are empty words. You can say, what concerns security, what concerns electricity... Well, guilty Russia, we put it in OIK... 2.3 billion... We gave it back... We're going to call someone to account for some kind of trifle, but where there's a clear violation of the Criminal Law... For no reason can they be prosecuted. Millions are being wasted! Stolen! Overall, we have overpaid honest offenders 2.3 billion. Very good! I do not see an analysis, and I do not see what we will do next. It's a beautiful talk, unfortunately nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U72	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U73	Hello! The fact that the word "Russia" is written on more than 30 pages does not make the document a quality one. By the way, you have forgotten to note that national security is probably also threatened by Timati's Alfa store. Why this irony? Iran for the reason that national security begins with prosperity. If our country continues just as for the last 29 years, then we, the National Association, will not have Latvians here to protect because they have gone. (Applause) The biggest threat to our national security is that our people live in poverty, that every year there are more than 10 thousand diseases in Latvia, which is about one Kuldīga. Our national security is threatened by the fact that we are not opening but closing schools for our people. Our national security is not at risk... Beautiful words about how we will protect ourselves from the enemy... Who will protect us if we are not here? National security cannot be implemented if the country does not have a civil protection plan which every citizen of Latvia would know. What exactly should Latvian citizens do at that X hour? If we ask such questions to everyone outside this house, people will not be able to answer because there is simply no such plan. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Col: “He’s getting up! You are not informed!” ) That's already been 29 years old, Mr. Cole! One more thing to say about national security. National security cannot and cannot end with Mr. Debtor's office in the Cabinet, where he receives two thousand euros. National security begins with the welfare of the people. Only by the welfare of the people! Therefore, for example, I must remind you that national security is actually reduced when you make those OICs there and make our people, our entrepreneurs, uncompetitive. And you are very rightly staying with your head, Mr Asheraden, because that is also your responsibility, why national security is actually at stake for us. Our national security is threatened by you who have been in power for 29 years. You're talking about Brexit. By the way, I will remind you that the largest of us is in Britain. We should be the first to protect our Diaspora in Great Britain. There is no word in this concept about how we will do it. And it is also a matter of our national security, because they are our people. Those for whom the state language is based on the Latvian language. Beautiful phrases! Nothing unspeakable! It's so beautiful for us to talk from morning to night... in various documents that you prepare and teach a serious face that something will change now. Our national security begins at a time when a person enters a hospital and has someone who can take care of him if the nurse is not tired. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Tell us something about your children!” ) Our national security begins, yes, Artus Neiminis, with children you don't have! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “How do you know?” Thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U74	Mr Gobzem, your debate is over! ( The box “Let it speak! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U75	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U76	The name of Member Janina Yalinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U77	Highly honored Presidium! Dear and honorable colleagues! When reading the concept of national security, I faced one important sentence, which is in the seventh part: "Prevention of threats to internal security and the constitutional system". Reading this paragraph... Lasau: "Internal security is also linked to the regional dimension, characterised by uneven development of capitals and regions and growing socio-economic contrasts." Well, that's clear. Go on. ‘ Depopulation of large areas makes it difficult for the country to control them. These risks at the border are reinforced by other aspects, such as the uncritical attitude of certain border municipalities towards cross-border cooperation with Russia and Belarus, as well as the impact of Russia's information and cultural space on border residents." Reading this sentence – “uncritical attitude of municipalities towards cross-border cooperation”... I understand that it is about the participation of municipalities in cross-border projects, which is... Latvia, Lithuania, Belarus; cross-border projects, which are... Estonia, Latvia, Russia... Should not municipalities participate in cross-border projects? When I analyse local government management, I know that border management is the people who are patriots of their land who love their own country and who simply cooperate with these two countries on education, culture, sport and, in part, health issues. And that is why I have a question: someone could perhaps answer really! - on this ‘non-critical attitude’ by the municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U78	Name to Member Uldis Budric.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U79	Hello, colleagues! I would like to read from the concept one sentence: "One of the key elements of internal security is a cohesive and strong civil society with a common understanding of fundamental values and national geopolitical orientation." ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Well, listening to Mr Gobzem's speech... We will still see such a proposal today - to recognise and grant Latvian citizenship to non-citizens who were born in Latvia after 21 August 1991. Our national security is threatened by the following proposals. I therefore call for support. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Papule: “twenty children!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U80	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U81	Mr Budrik, if you are at risk of 20 babies, what national security are you talking about at all? (Applause) What courage to protect your country? If you are threatened by people who are born, grown up and studied in a free, independent Latvia... if they threaten you, what national security and what courage can you speak about?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U82	Name to Member Andris Flyre.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U83	Hello, honourable Mrs. Mourniece! Colleagues! Thank you really to the National Security Commission for the huge work you have done. I am very much in favour of this concept. I would like to emphasise that socio-economic problems are also mentioned. It is clear that socio-economic problems and, as many colleagues have said, health care is also part of the internal security of our country. And I hope that, in future, this national safety plan will make greater mention of health care and the socio-economic situation. I also invite all colleagues to read today’s magazine Ir’s interview with Marina Kostenecka, who in my opinion is one of the icons of our Awakening. And here she also touches on education and quality of education. And about the fact that it is clear that the Latvian language must learn at all stages... There can be no discussion about this in our country. I will quote one sentence from her: “The Latvian language, which has been taught with hatred, is a bomb with a time burner.” So let us call on all our languages to be taught qualitatively and with such a real desire. — The Insight: “Love!” )... with love, yes, like just one... Like... I think many of you have heard - or have seen a film - about a Japanese girl who lived in Kurzeme for a long time (I don't remember where), and about how she learned Latvian. And as now one Japanese musician has perfectly learned to sing... Latvian language... And that's what we have to go to. And thank you again for this document. I call for support. Thank you. ( The ring of noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U84	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U85	Hello, colleagues! I have listened to this debate and, to my surprise, I have heard one wise thought outside of those well-known clichés, which there would be no point in discussing here at all. Mr Pabrik said that. He said the following: I will try close to the text: that the contract concluded has only paper value if the state and people do not decide to stick to it. Here are colleagues, where there is the greatest threat to our national security. The threat is the people who are in power to whom this country has been entrusted, entrusted to look after the fate of their people, and who fail to live up to their promises, which do not fulfill what is written in the treaties. This is the biggest threat to our national security. I would ask you to think about it. Especially when you decide on the budget soon and when you decide on the medical fees. About what is written in the law. You will demonstrate to the whole of society whether this power and its promises can be trusted or not. If the company gets confirmation once again that you cannot be trusted, then you will be the ones who pose this greatest national threat. Because that's how you create this sense of alienation for the public from this country, not wanting to belong to it. Please think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U86	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U87	Dear colleagues, First of all, about the procedure. Of course, it is very unpleasant that the head of the commission, Maris Kučinskis, who led this meeting and also prepared the discussion of the concept in the Saeima, cannot be here and explained, but I really want to say that all the members of the commission met carefully with the concept at the meeting on 18 September, debated and presented to the officials... and answered all the questions asked by Members. As a result, I can say from the commission that the work invested and the work done by the commission manager to deal with this issue has really been a good one. On behalf of the Commission, I would also like to thank the ministers who have devoted time and here each one of us has given us a very detailed opportunity to focus on the fact that there are a number of innovations in the concept and that, unlike the previous concept, there are also areas and topics which, until now, have not been so directly linked to national security. As I said, I again ask Members on behalf of the National Security Commission to support the concept of national security prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U88	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of the National Security Concept! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -61, for -1 and for -18. Decision adopted. On the agenda - reports by the Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. Dear colleagues, we have received Member Rihards Kola, Jānis Dombrava, Edvina Šnore, Ilze Indicisone, Ritvars Jansons, Jānis Iesalnieks, Aleksandrs Kiršteina, Janīna Kursīte-Pakules, Edmunds Teirumnieks and Raivjs Dzintars' draft decision - own-initiative proposal – “On the participation of the Republic of Latvia in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? ( The transcripts are: “Yes! There are objections!’ ) There are therefore objections. We must therefore vote in favour of putting the draft decision on the agenda for the next sitting. Mr. Cole, will you talk about it? ‘ For” applied to speak Member Richard Kohl.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U89	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, It is fair to say, I am disappointed that in such a way, in my opinion, a draft decision that is self-evident, should be supported and in accordance with the interests and values of Latvia... this Saeima lacks not only the conviction to accept, but lacks the feeling of being sick to see... The second sitting of the Saeima... the substance. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “How could you be disappointed if you wrote it on a page?” ) I will explain a little in context and the things that have taken place over the last week, as well as again what we are talking about here. I hope that it will be enough for you, fellow Members, to understand why we had to adopt this draft decision last week. As we all know, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in June restored to Russia the right to vote which was suspended in 2014 in response to the annexation of the Crimean Peninsula, which is part of Ukraine, despite the fact that, within five years, there is no progress in the implementation of the resolutions of the Parliamentary Assembly or in the implementation of the Minsk Agreement. The Latvian delegation, together with other like-minded countries, immediately after this vote demonstrated that the decision to restore the right to vote to Russia is unacceptable to us. On 30 September, the EPPA session will resume, and the draft decision, on which we cannot vote for the second week, provides for the decision of the Latvian delegation not to participate in the EPPA plenary sessions until the end of the 2019 session, or until the conditions and draft procedures establishing how the Council of Europe can address the Member States which, through their actions, are in conflict with the Council of Europe's statutes and fundamental principles are put on the agenda. With this decision, we would call on the EPPA to confirm that the resolutions adopted so far are and will be binding on Russia with the entry into force of the new rules and procedures. At last week's sitting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, during a debate on the need and opinion of this draft decision, the Head of the Latvian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe stated (I quote): “We, Latvia, understand that first of all we have to show solidarity with Ukraine. If Ukraine decides not to drive, we, as a delegation, do not travel either. That is clear. This would not require such a draft decision today." ( End quoted) It was already known last week that Ukraine would not travel. After suffocating with... and legal acrobatics on what is the right delegation and so on, we now know that even the old Ukrainian delegation will not go. In my opinion, attempts to bend out of their commitments and technical details are not worthy of Latvia. The Head of the Ukrainian delegation has officially addressed the Heads of Delegation, including us, asking for solidarity with Ukraine and not to go to the autumn session. Pray! However, the missions of the Latvian delegation have been applied for, and in the last press release about EPPA we can see that the delegation will still go. I do not think that this will be any news, but I will say: Saeima sittings, its decisions and debates are followed not only by a few particularly interested citizens and media, but also by embassies, as well as the Embassy of Ukraine. Our partners, our friends are confused about what is happening. To be honest, I too am confused. We often talk about principles, especially when international issues are to be considered. It is important to talk about principles, but it is important to integrate them into our decisions and actions. Sounds declare their indignation or regret on Twitter - this is easy and necessary, but in such cases it is not enough. The EPPA decision not only discredits this organisation, but also causes enormous damage to all European policies... against Russia and, in general, against violations of international law. We have, in fact, said that we should not be taken seriously: I say, and it will calm down over time. By participating in and not engaging with Ukraine, we also sign under such a policy and in fact completely change our attitude towards... and in relations with Ukraine. Colleagues, despite the fact that the new ESPA session is starting on Monday, nevertheless, I call on you to support the revision of the draft decision at the next parliamentary sitting so that we can still show that yellow card to the ESPA so that we do not climb into old rakes and do not allow the unacceptable to normalize. Let us not forget our historical experience, which has proved to be an obsession: for small countries, respect for the principles of international law is a matter of life and death! Sometimes there is a minority on the truth side, but history in time puts everything on the right shelves. I want Ukraine to... the right way... In solidarity with Ukraine, we do not leave it alone in the fight against reconciliation, revanishism and mercantylism. I call for real support for the referral at the next sitting. And despite the vote, I call on the representatives of the Saeima delegation to cancel their mission to the EPPA meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U90	Ms Marija Golubeva, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U91	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, 6 September in Riga in the European Parliament... The delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe convened delegations of like-minded countries to agree jointly on coordination and joint action to oppose the restoration of the right to vote in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to the Russian delegation. At this meeting, we jointly decided to oppose this action by means of a joint letter, in which we also called on the President of the Presidency of the Council of Europe, Emmanuel Macron, and the Chairman of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, to meet with delegations from countries with similar views in order to oppose this action by the majority of the European Parliament. This letter was also sent yesterday or yesterday to the French Ambassador, and France is already starting to react, and meetings with the Chairman of the Committee of Ministers will be presented to us. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Col: “What will you do if he refuses?” ) The Ukrainian delegation also intends to travel and participate in coordination processes outside plenary, although the Ukrainian delegation did not submit mandates. So it is not true that the Ukrainians are not travelling at all. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Col: “But they don’t! Stop demagogy!” ) It is very important for us to coordinate this action in order to organise and jointly oppose Russia's influence in the EP, rather than making individual decisions and showing our feet instead of achieving a real result together, for example, by pointing out to those who voted in favour of the renewal of the Russian delegation's voting rights to tell them that they were wrong and to talk to them outside plenary. So it is very important for the Latvian delegation to be in Strasbourg. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Schmidt: “We need to drive!” ) I call for no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U92	Colleagues! So one Member said 'for', one spoke 'for'. We will have to vote in favour of putting this draft decision on the agenda for the next ordinary sitting. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision on the participation of the Republic of Latvia in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the agenda of the next current sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 33, for - 25, for - 7. The draft decision is on the agenda for the next ordinary sitting. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Iesalnieks: “Murky Saeima!” ; dep. A. Neighbours: “Can you stop? Come on!” ) On the agenda - draft decision “About 10 417... Is included? The agenda of the next section meeting was put on the agenda. Dear colleagues, We have received the own-initiative proposal submitted by the Commission for Mandate, Ethics and Application – the draft decision “On the further progress of the collective application of 10 417 Latvian citizens “The State Supports the Patients of Melanoma of Severe Disease, as in Lithuania and Estonia”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? Are there any objections? Who has reservations? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are therefore no objections. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. On the granting of leave. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Bureau of the Saeima has received an application from Raimonds Bergmanis, Member, requesting that unpaid leave be granted on 19 September this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from the Member Kaspars Gürgen requesting unpaid leave on 26 September this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For granting unpaid leave to Member Dace Bluķe on 1 October 2019. Colleagues, we have to vote. Please call me! We will be voting for the granting of unpaid leave to Member Dace Blueke on 1 October 2019! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. For granting unpaid leave to a Member Vladimir Nikonov on 3 October 2019. Please call me! We will be voting to grant unpaid leave to Member Vladimir Nikonov on 3 October 2019! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. The draft decision ‘On the removal of the judge Aija Orniņa from the office of a judge of the district (city)’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U93	Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that the judgment of the Riga City Vidzeme suburb court came into effect on 9 September in criminal case, by which district (city) court judge Aija Orniņa was found guilty of committing a criminal offence provided for in Section 329 of the Criminal Law, namely the disclosure of undisclosed messages. The second paragraph of Article 81 of the Law “On Judicial Power” states: “If a judge has been sentenced and the judgment has become valid, the judge shall be removed from office by the Saeima on a proposal from the Minister of Justice.” And such a proposal was presented to the Saeima on 18 September this year. In the closed session of the Legal Commission on 24 September this year, the draft decision “On removal of judge Aija Orniņa from office of a district (city) judge” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for Aija Orniņš to be removed from office of a judge of a district (city) court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U94	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On cancellation of judge Aija Orniņa from office of a district (city) judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Decision adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, proposals have been received for changes to the agenda of the sitting. Members Gobzems, Stepanenko, Sprūde, Liepiņa, Augulis, Dūklavs and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the task for the Cabinet of Ministers to prepare an information report on the number of ministries most suitable for sustainable development of Latvia”. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? ( Insight: “Yes! Yes!’ ) Please call us! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision “On the task for the Cabinet of Ministers to prepare an information report on the number of ministries most suitable for sustainable development of Latvia” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 32, it's against - 45, it's not. The draft decision shall not be placed on the agenda of the sitting. ( Insight: “Where did the promises of pre-election remain? ” ) Examination of requests by Members Requests received by Members. We have received a Member Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Tutina, Valija Agešina, Jānis Adamson, Vital Orlova, Edgars Kucina, Jānis Krišāns, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Urbanovičs and Ivans Ribakov's request to the Minister of Economics Ralf Nemir "On the validity of the Ministry of Economics' actions in relation to the results of the "OIC Power Plants" tests". Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U95	Colleagues! As you may understand, it is not enough to make beautiful promises and commitments to put an end to the OIC. Real action is needed. And one of these real actions that should be carried out would be... We're talking... I don't really understand... “ We hear, we hear. It's okay." ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U96	Three minutes. Please, speak!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U97	But how? Maybe to introduce silence or order. Or you can't?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U98	Please, speak! The Member is asking for full attention, fellow Members!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U99	That's right. ( Milestones.) So it would be necessary to carry out real checks. The Ministry of Economics has nothing to do with these tests. Absolutely don't marry! Just because here in the Saeima, we started to look at this scene, and only because the elections were approaching, in summer, June 2018, the electricity trader Latvenergo began to make real checks. Consequently, these inspections have been in place since June last year. But have you heard anything about the results of these tests? How many have you heard? There's such a strange silence. In the meantime, more than 200 stations have been tested. So we asked the Ministry of Economics: how is it doing to evaluate the results of these tests? The elections have passed away, the beautiful promises have been, where are the real works? We asked the Ministry of Economic Affairs to find out what these tests are and what it has actually done. The Ministry of Economy refused to provide us with information on the results of the inspections and what it had done. In fact, they said that they were still assessing the results of the checks. So more than a year has passed, but the Ministry of Economics is still assessing. In particular, we were confused by the sentence they had written in their reply: “The Ministry of Economics is still carrying out an evaluation of the results and, if irregularities are found, the economic operator may be warned.” We have prepared this request because we believe that the public should know how these checks are then actually carried out, what irregularities have been discovered and what the Ministry of Economics has been... Otherwise, we have legitimate concerns that the Ministry of Economics continues to cover this area and not actually fights. So in words they promise to fight, but in real works we see the opposite. As I promised the Minister for Economics that I would help him cope with this afer, then I assume that perhaps the Ministry of Economics simply does not understand what they should do. Then we asked them to give them information, and here they will help them to be clear about what to do with these specific violations, how they should be assessed. From the information that we have at our disposal, we can see that such a millions of fraud processes should not be two but well, much more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U100	The request shall be submitted to the Requesting Commission. Colleagues! Let's start with the legislative process. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gundars Dauge.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U101	President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”” (No. 394/Lp/13). This draft law has been drafted by the Ministry of Health, submitted by the Saeima - Cabinet of Ministers. The draft law intends to subject two new psychoactive substances to control, which in Latvia were subject to a temporary ban by a decision of the Disease Prevention and Control Centre for a period of up to 12 months. The information obtained from the European early warning system shows that these substances have already been distributed in Poland, so very close to Latvia, and therefore these substances should be included in this law as a preventive measure. These new psychoactive substances are dangerous to public health and safety. And these new substances are... The first of these is identified by the abreviation 2F-QMPSB or quinolin-8-yl 3-((4-,4-difluoropiperidin-1yl)sulfonyl)-4-methylbenzoate (Interface: "Repeat!" ) and 2... You're... Again? Quinolin-8-yl 3-((4,4-difluoropiperidin-1yl)sulfonyl)-4-methylbenzoate. I hope you can write down! (Applause) The second substance is 2-Methylacetylfentanil, which expires on 9 October this year, i.e. after two weeks. A new point 7.1, which includes indole, azaindol, and indazole-3-carbonyl derivatives, as well as acetylfentanyl, is added to the list of controlled substances. Also, the controlled substance, etizolam, has been included in the list of controlled substances III, and the location of the controlled substance 4-anilinopiperidine has been changed. It is moved into a section governed by the national regulations of the Member States. As the date of entry into force of the law is scheduled for 8 October of this year, because, as I have already mentioned, the temporary prohibition on one of those substances expires on 9 October of this year, i.e. after two weeks. The Commission unanimously supported this draft law for the first reading and, on behalf of the Commission, I ask that it be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U102	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U103	Thank you. On behalf of the Commission, please support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U104	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set... Yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U105	And, honourable colleagues, on behalf of the Commission, I am asking you to look at this draft law at second reading at today's sitting without re-examination within the committee responsible, because the time is indeed very limited.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U106	Does one of the Members object to the second reading of the draft law without re-examination by the committee responsible? There is no objection. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U107	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U108	Draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Information Systems”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Mr Daniel Pavluts.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U109	Good afternoon, colleagues! Today we are looking at the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Information Systems”. As I set out in previous sittings, this is necessary in order to activate a new system that has been designed to fund the European Union and which is essential in that it will gather information from the relevant information systems in order to avoid any duplication of these data in the future. In the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, we examined and supported this draft law. So I am calling for support at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U110	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Information Systems” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Restriction of Pornography”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U111	That's funny, isn't it? Like school. Dear colleagues, We are examining today the draft law on “Amendment to the Law on the Restriction of Pornography” (No. 358/Lp13), first reading. Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The draft law provides for the retention of administrative offences in the system of administrative violations provided for in Section 173.2 of Latvian Administrative Violations Code - it is about violation of the rules of movement of materials of a pornographic nature - by supplementing the Law on the Restriction of Pornography with a new Article 12, which will provide for administrative liability in the field of restriction of pornography, and Article 13, which determines the competence of the State Police and the municipal police in the process of administrative violations. The Commission has examined the draft law and supported its examination by the Parliament at first reading. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the amendment to the Pornography Act at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U112	The Law on the Restriction of Pornography. (Laughter) Let us, however, be precise about what laws we have here! But... Well, okay. Please call me! We will vote in favour ( Dep. A. Neighbours: “Two two!” ) First reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Restriction of Pornography”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U113	Yeah, longer? ( The utterance: “Louder! ”) ) 1 October of this year. ( Independence: “A Longer Term! Pornography is an important process!’ ) on 1 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U114	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 1 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U115	Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U116	Ladies and gentlemen, let us start looking at the next draft law after a break. Please call me! Please register the Members. Name... notifications. The name to Anda Chakša.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U117	Colleagues! In a break to all those interested in the job... in the working group... Gender equality, reproductive health and healthy sexuality promotion, please in the Yellow Hall to establish the group.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U118	Name for Maria Golubeva to communicate the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U119	Not registered: Kaspars Ģirgens, Inese Ikstena, Ilze Indriksone, Māris Kučinskis, Janīna Kursīte, Arturs Toms Ples, Mārtiņš Staķis, Didzis Šmits, Vita Anda Steel... Yes, Didy Smith is.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U120	Thank you. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U121	Honourable Members! We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft law “On the termination of the status of non-citizen for children”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U122	We examine the draft law “On Stopping Granting the status of non-citizen to Children” (No. 274/Lp13) at second reading. A total of 12 proposals were received from the draft law. The draft law submitted by the former President of Latvia Raimonds Vējonis provides for the termination of the granting of the status of a non-citizen to children born after 1 January 2020 for whom the status of a non-citizen is provided for by the second paragraph of Article 8 of the law “On the status of citizens of the former USSR who do not have citizenship of Latvia or another country”. Such a framework of the draft law, without broadening it, is also supported by the existing President of Latvia Egils Levits. The Commission also agreed to stick to the draft law by examining the proposals submitted. So, honourable colleagues, we have 12 proposals that we need to consider. Let us start with the first proposal made by Member Gobzem. This is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U123	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U124	In theory, such a draft law does not correspond to the system that exists in Latvia, as the relevant issues of non-citizens in Latvia are regulated by the Citizenship Law. In practice, however, the state can not only grant citizenship, but it also grants citizenship, so, too, to individuals who, for example, do not learn Latvian language. What do I mean by that? I would like to say that the country has the right to change the rules of the game, so the argument that, with regard to the granting of citizenship, we have only one irreparable regulation, is not true. The State is entitled to amend this regulation. In theory, if we are talking about the particular draft law and the specific problem... In theory, for the last 29 years Latvian society has been afraid that the Russians are coming, that it is our biggest threat, but in practice – in practice! - the most common Latvian language is lost when people are forced to leave Latvia. And it is a direct and clear result of the policy of the parties in power, including the National Alliances. It is the result of your policy that the number of Latvians is decreasing in Latvia and decreasing in the world! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Col: “Call out something concrete!” ) And one more thing when we talk about theory and practice. In fact, society is frightened by the fact that in this way we will open the door to elements threatening Latvia entering Latvian society. What is proposed in the draft law? It is about the independent people who are not yet born in the free Republic of Latvia, and I strongly doubt whether any person who is not yet born in Latvia could threaten the security of Latvia. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. U. Budrik: “You’ve read your own proposals?” ) For people born in Latvia but still under the age of a baby or a minor... I strongly doubt that the safety of Latvia could be jeopardised by infants or children. This draft law thus also provides for a group of persons who have completed educational institutions of Latvia, so they have received education... I strongly doubt that every person who has studied in Latvian educational institutions could threaten Latvia, because within 29 years education should have been brought into order that a person who has completed Latvian educational institutions does not threaten Latvia. And by the end. This bill talks about the whole... Let's say, in the most optimistic or pessimistic sense, only about 10 028 people, including infants. Consequently, 10 028 people are not now a group of society that could in any way threaten the security of Latvia. If someone believes that 10 000 people born in Latvia can do this, then I think it doesn't matter if we approved or approved the concept of National Security today if we fear people born in free, independent Latvia. Thank you. ( A ringing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U125	The debate has not yet been closed. Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov. Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? ( Independence: “No! A gift on your birthday!” ) There are no objections.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U126	Dear colleagues, I would like to support the legislative corrections set up by the independent member Gobzem. (Laughter) They can be welcomed because very rarely national politicians speak about removing restrictions on non-citizens of Latvia. I think it is worth talking about two types of nationalists. A positive nationalist is one who wants to benefit its people, but a negative nationalist wants to restrict other peoples. On this issue, one tenth of the potential elite... I see a real cornering from the negative nationalists. In particular, Estonian politicians acted differently. Persons with a grey passport - Estonian non-citizens - have the right to vote in local elections. And thanks to this, additional localities in Estonia received a number of parties, including those that would not be pro-Russian in any way. Simply Estonian parties are more pragmatic. What is the Latvian non-citizens? According to the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs, 220 thousand non-citizens lived in Latvia on July 1, this year. Statistics on applications for naturalisation did not inspire. If 1939 requests for naturalisation were received in 2013, then last year - only 1137. Taking into account the reduction in the number of people who have not passed the language and history exam, over the last five years the number of Latvian citizens has never exceeded a thousand per year. But we have had a fantastic result - 19 169 people naturalized in 2005. Why is empathy now lacking in the country? This is why public officials do not want to conquer the hearts of non-citizens. Maybe they're afraid of Russia. It seems to me that it is very wrong at all - to link the phenomenon of non-citizens to a particular country. I will also give you one example from the statistics on the administration of Citizenship and Migration Affairs. Everyone here has solidarity with Ukraine, but in Latvia there are 18 thousand Latvian citizens of Ukrainian origin and 22 thousand Ukrainians who are not Latvian citizens, i.e. there are more Ukrainian non-Ukrainian citizens in Latvia than there are citizens. It very much questions Latvia's solidarity with Ukraine and Ukraine. Go on. Poles. 7700 Poles live in Latvia, which is not Latvian citizens. Poland is our strategic ally in NATO and the European Union. Go on. Germans - 930 non-citizens Germans. Estonians - 287 Estonians. And, after all, Latvians. 511 Latvians, who are not Latvian citizens, live in Latvia. It's a phenomenon! Young people are currently the most active category of naturalized age. 30 percent belong to the cohort of 18-30 years, the next 25 percent is up to 40 years, and active are people over 60, that is, 15 percent are seniors who want to naturalize. If we take the period 1991 to 2019... in this period of birth... The number of people in Latvia, as Mr Gobzem has already mentioned, is about 10 thousand. But, unfortunately, since 2013,... Until 2019, the CLP... only about 100 people - the number of registered children's non-citizens. It's very small. And, in my opinion, this draft law that we are now discussing - it is just a palliative way to draw attention to the non-citizens in this way and so. But I think that naturalisation in Latvia is deadlocked and the number of non-citizens in our country has actually preserved. Who benefits from it? I don't think it's good for Latvia. Something has to be done. Therefore, the offer made by my colleague Gobzem is a very welcome and worthy decision. Please support!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U127	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U128	Can I combine both times?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U129	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U130	Thank you. Dear President, Honourable Members! I was ready to talk about proposal 2, but now... I have listened to the previous speaker and I want to say a few things. First of all, we must say that citizenship is not recognised, it is born. The citizen is given the right to decide on the fate of the Latvian nation or the Latvian nation. There's a difference. The other rights also apply to the non-citizen. Therefore, small but proud nations and peoples carefully evaluate and adopt strict citizenship laws, not recognise each... I could mention Switzerland, Luxembourg, Monaco as examples. Unfortunately, in Latvia we approach this thing laxly and without self-esteem. We have not had a discussion and there is a misunderstanding on this crucial issue. What is the primary task of the Citizenship Law? Is this a question of strengthening the security of the nation? For belonging to the nation? Is Latvia just a territory or is it a national country? Are citizens only taxpayers who live in this territory, as we are trying to establish, or are they part of a nation? And they also belong in difficult days? It is appropriate that those who are ready to defend the independence of this country. It is appropriate that those who do not fly to the next land of happiness just get the slightest difficulties and the smallest wind blow. Now the idea is cultivated that Latvia is only a territory for which taxpayers are required, and that it is not important in which language they speak. Of course, you have to rub in Latvian, but the best thing is if you speak English or Russian. Popular people like Busul... says that she speaks Russian with children at home. It is important to infiltrate or belong to a larger nation. People are paid by a low-value complex. The European Union's liberal politicians, mass culture, Hollywood films also promote migration from Africa. Famous actresses adopt children to show that no nations and nations exist and that in fact we all live in a single large pass-by farm. The term “nation” has different interpretations. Language, race, nationality, national independence, culture, religion, nationality are mentioned... Poles in Poland are a good example. More than 90 percent of citizens are Catholics; they are ethnically homogeneous, with common history. But, of course, Poland is being criticised, and this is not a good example for the European Union. Philosopher Nikolai Berdjayev wrote that the closest to the definition of a nation is those who define it as a historical unity of destiny. This is, of course, unacceptable to us already. So - the unity of common destiny. A little bit about it. With whom do we share this destiny? Remember, recently, September 13, was the anniversary of Smolyn’s battle. In that battle, which took place in 1502, the Livonian people defeated Ivan III with his Tatar troops and rescued Vidzeme, say, women and men from all the things that both Ivan III and his grandson John the Danger. So placing on a stake, rape, murder and everything else. We can no longer create a political nation, because we missed this opportunity, I think, in 1939, when we signed this base agreement with the Soviet Union and this Baltic repatriation took place. With these, of course, we could form some kind of political nation, because there was a common religion, common cultural traditions and most of these people had already integrated into Latvian society. Can we create a political nation in a context where the consequences of the Soviet occupation have not been removed? Do we have unity of destiny with those who run on 9 May at the so-called Riga Liberation Monument? The descendants of Czechs and occupying officers? This experiment has completely failed, despite the fact that for 30 years we have been trying to tell different foreign organizations that this integration of the political nation is progressing successfully. This is demonstrated both by the former language referendum and the possession of the occupied successors in Riga, and by demonstrations against teaching in the state language. This bill, as well as this bill, which is presented with complete irresponsibly, is a typical expression of the mentality of passers-by drivers. Anyone who falls out of the rear of the carriageway can be a citizen, because he will already pay taxes, even if he will also pull in Latvian only at the level of minimum knowledge. Maybe we can fix something... a little correction in favour of the proposals of the National Alliance and of Mr Dombrava, because there is at least hope. Because with 2020, however, there's going to be some kind of... There'll be some movement going on... and the budget and everything else, so that we can move into kindergartens to Latvian. Well then it may be that these children will learn in Latvian in the future as well, and it may be that a small part of them will also become loyal citizens. But I call for this proposal 1 to be rejected. Support the proposals made by the representative of the National Alliance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U131	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U132	You forgot your pen, Mr. Kirstein! Mr. Kirštein, you talked about Czechs and so on. Then I have a question for you: are you not saying something, Mr Kirštein, a KGB rapporteur with the name Slivkin? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “Ai, ai, ai!” ) Do you have anything to say about 1940, when perhaps a relative, perhaps your father, has been a supporter of the Soviet occupation, but your father - in Stalin’s time. — Dep. Kirštein: “Father was sitting in a concentration camp!” ) Officer of the NKVD. Could it be, could it not be? You could tell me about the KGB from the troop... Sliwkins, before talking about Czech successors! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “When will you leave?” ) In this particular case, it is not about people who were born in the USSR or in other ways, in the particular draft law it is about people who were born in the free, independent Republic of Latvia after 1991, and Latvia cannot be threatened by a baby who was born in... who is a minor. He can neither endanger the security of Latvia, nor the security of the nation, nor the identity of Latvia, nor everything else. That is what this bill is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U133	Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U134	I ask Mr Gobzem and other Members of the Saeima not to use the concept of children's rights, to speculate on babies when it comes to this draft law. Above all, it must be borne in mind that Mr Gobzem has extended the scope of this draft law with his proposal 1. It has been deliberately done, it was already a matter of concern when the former President of Latvia submitted this bill to the Saeima. And looking at these proposals in the context of Mr Gobzem's later proposal (the table below) that people born in and after 1991 should be granted citizenship, it is not a question of babies; it is a question of knowingly extending citizenship. ( Intercretion: “He wanted to! ” ) If we are now conceptually in favour of such an approach, then further proposals, purely technical, regarding an increase in the number of years in the retrospective period, can be put forward for the third reading as well. And then we end up to 1971 or another year. Mr Gobzem will take care of pioneers so that they too become Latvian citizens. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “I have not been a pioneer, Mr. Janson!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U135	I closed the debate. Is there something to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U136	Dear colleagues, I draw your attention to the fact that we are debating the first proposal here, which reads: ‘Replace the title of the bill in the form of the words: The recognition of the status of citizens and the granting of their status to non-citizens’. That's it. This proposal was not supported by the Commission. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction Article 56 (c) of CRR Point 2. Member Gobzem has confused the laws. This does not apply to this law! It's a completely different law, which is... The Law on Citizenship and the Law on the Status of Citizens of the former USSR who do not have citizenship of Latvia or another country. ( Insight: ‘ On behalf of the Commission, speak! ’) ) And I am speaking on behalf of the Commission. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) So, honourable colleagues, on behalf of the Commission, please do not support 1, 6 and 9. - Mr. Alda Gobzem's proposal. Proposal No 1 must be put to the vote, please. The Commission rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U137	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Gobzem's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 23, for - 48, for - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U138	2. - That's Mr Dombrava's proposal. Not supported. ( FROM a fraction DECLARES: “Right! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U139	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U140	Having already examined the draft law at first reading, I showed that this is the most harmful work that President Vējonis had done during his Presidency. I believe that these words are true because we see that, at the moment, at second reading, the law on citizenship and the law on the status of former USSR citizens who do not have the nationality of Latvia or another country have been circumvented and amendments have been tabled which effectively extend the range of citizens by automatically granting them... at least some want to automatically grant citizenship to many who have never wanted to be Latvian citizens. I will refer to the October 1991 debate. At that time, shortly after the restoration of Latvia's independence, it was decided what to include in the circle of citizens and what to exclude. I will quote what individual members of the Supreme Council have said in this debate. One of them is Eduard Berklav. ‘ We here are very different, as diverse as our constituents are. We have the same different objectives as our constituents. For it is not denied that about one fifth of the voters sent their representatives here to fight against Latvia as an independent, democratic state. The number of voters and then the number of Members who did not want and do not want Latvia to be a Latvian, an independent country, who do not want to understand that this is an ancient Latvian land, that a Latvian has the right to be the founder of life here. They do not want and fail to understand that Latvians only want what the Russians want in Russia, what the Belarusians - Belarus, the Germans - Germany, the French - in France, that is, any nation in their own country. The rest of each country must take into account that they have a choice: to stay in a foreign land or to go home." Professor Rolands Ricards (The Group's SASKAŅA: "How many Latvians chose to live... ?” ) said that there are millions of USSR citizens living in Latvia and 1.7 million citizens of the Republic of Latvia. 80 percent of them are Latvian, 20 percent are Gentiles. If 20 percent are already alien and from the citizens of the USSR, from this million, practically no Latvian. ‘ The Union of Scientists has tried to make predictions, and our estimate two years ago was that the last Latvian will die in 2135, but it was a forecast [...] if Latvia remains an occupied territory of the USSR. That was the prognosis. But today the situation has changed, we are an independent state, and we must in any case ensure that... Latvians still have a majority, that is, at least two thirds of the parliament of citizens, at least two thirds, that is, the minimum, below which they must not descend, because, for example, the demand for the second language, according to the Russian language, is the death of the Latvian nation. ( The interdependencies of the fraction.) You understand that. So, in order to be able to regulate these processes in a democratic way, to ensure the survival of the Latvian nation for an unlimited period of time, the Latvian percentage of the total number of citizens should be at least two thirds. ( The interdependencies of the fraction.) That is the minimum I believe. However, the forecasts in question will, of course, still be able to be made, since the situation is changing. However, there are a huge number of factors, including economic ones, because it is known that Latvians currently own only 10 percent of capital, and Gentiles - 90 percent. ( INTERPRETATION OF THE GROUP.) , Latvians can stay in their homeland as servants and so on. All of this is an interrelated process (from the Group of the National Alliance: “Pleasure!” ) - it is not just the birth rate ( FROM a fraction: “Closing the mouth!” ), citizenship (from the Group of the National Alliance: ‘You close!’ ), it is also an economy, culture and so on.” Already then, the members of the Supreme Council who voted in favour of the restoration of Latvia's independence understood the deepest seriousness of this case. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Papule’s intermediate call sign.) At the same time, there was no shortage of members of the Supreme Council who voted against independence... with its quotes. If I can bring together the times of the debate...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U141	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? Are there any objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Please call us! We will vote for bringing together the two times of the debate for Member Janis Dombrava! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U142	So one of the Members who voted against the restoration of Latvia's independence... when he learned that not everyone is likely to be automatically granted citizenship... One of them was Ivan Ivanov, a former... i.e., a member of Riga City Council at the latest. And he was not afraid to say in this debate: 'Are you not afraid that Baltic Karaha could stand out here?' , referring to what took place in the Caucasus region. Another Member who voted against Latvia's independence, Oleg Šchipcov, also a member of Riga City Council at the latest, said the following words: “A father Joe does not yet exist in Russia. He died in 1953. But if you leave too many non-citizens, they can open the way to power to Uncle Joe in Russia. And then I didn't think of Latvia's independence." ( Milestones.) Uncle Joe is Joseph Stalin, as Franklin Roosevelt said in later years. At the moment, I call on Members of the Saeima not to support the programme objectives that were once led by the Interfront and now led by their ideological representatives, heirs in the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia - the Saskaņa Group, and call for support for this 2. - my proposal, which will, in essence, return to the order in which we have been, that we refer to the provisions of the Citizenship Law, which is legally correct, and not to the creation of a third law governing citizenship issues. In general, however, I call for a 'no' vote on the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U143	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U144	Mr Dombrava, you mentioned France very successfully. French football or basketball selection is clear proof of clean French if? That is, of course, the example you referred to. Or, for example, these weeks... A very respected person in Latvia - Marina Kostenecka... I will remind you, she is a Russian-origined person, Latvian patriot. ( Internouncing call.) It's not like that! If you think you're going to introduce a united society here, treating unborn children with hatred... On the territory of Latvia... that there will be a united society here... A cohesive society means an inclusive society, and there is no secret that there is no violence between nations in everyday life, people working together in everyday life, living together, spouses... people of different nationalities. ( Internouncing call.) By the way, Mr. Dombrava, in works and business... speak mostly English, not Latvian. Once again, I must stress: if we want our country to exist, so that our language exists, we must not go with hatred for those who are not yet born or who are infants... Because, Mr. Janson, this law is about children... ( Internouncing call.) for unborn children. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. U. Budriķis: “There is no proposal! You know what you're presenting?” ) A cohesive society is a society in which we are not afraid of the smallest and the weakest of those who will be adulthood after 18 or 10 years. It may be that we have to be afraid that by our actions we send Latvians out of Latvia, because they cannot survive here, they cannot be earned because of the policy that has been pursued for the last 29 years. Fear that Russians will come here and that we will lose our identity... An identical person can only be lost if he does not keep up with it. If he cares for it himself, in his family, he can't lose his identity. Therefore, let us treat those people who will be born in Latvia only with respect, and let us include them rather than submit them to humiliation by the fact that they will not be Latvian citizens yet... and that then what will be so special and will decide about these dozen babies who will be born every year as non-citizens! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U145	Name to Member Raiv Dzintar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U146	Dear colleagues, I understand, of course, that when it comes to such sensitive issues, emotions can hit a high wave. But there are some limits, however. Mr. Gobzem! I believe that it is simply sick: the authors of the proposal to cast hatred on infants. (Applause) We oppose the fact that, as you say, babies born in 1991... that we now want to force them, by law, to citizenship, contrary to the choice made by their parents. That is what we are talking about, not hate against infants. Let's just keep to the line, Mr. Gobzem! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U147	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U148	Cool Dzintar! If you had carefully read your colleague's proposal, Mr Dombrava... This is about children born after 2020. This year is 2019. I think that the person born in 2020 is and will be a baby. Read your colleague's proposal before you climb the platform! Because this debate on this particular subject is on the proposal of the bill, the proposal of Mr Dombrava, who is talking about children who will be born from next year. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U149	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U150	Dear colleagues, It's quite interesting once again to watch all this... It's just that way. ... observation. You know, there's... It's a pity that those who call themselves either nationals or nationals... You're not patriotic. Because the difference is there, the patriots are the ones who do everything to build the prosperity of their people to achieve something. Those who try... those people who are trying to increase their own self-esteem at the expense of other people or at the expense of other people... This is only a sign of a complex of undervalue. That's all you are. You're not Patriots. This part, which sits here and stays silent, but is by nature part of the whole process... You think all this does not apply to you, so to say, this party somehow takes with this side, and all. I've had one businessman talking about what is happening or not happening in the Latvian economy... he shared the fact that once he looked at such a channel in Discovery and there was such a report for one tribe... Maybe... In the Amazon forests, which saw no relationship between sexuality and birth in nine months. So you too, I think this part of the medicine, you somehow think that in a country where... and you're part of it... fight their own people, a third of their own people... that there can be something going on in this country... the big one... some economic growth, so that all citizens of this country can really mobilise to achieve some common goals. That's impossible! Even during the Bible writing, I realized that nothing would happen in divided countries. You can try to do it again and again and again. You can try to continue to be confident at the expense of others, instead of thinking about your people. You may, so to speak, pretend that this is absolutely not true to you, and at the same time think that you are leading them in some way. No, no! They lead you! You are all a branch of the National Association. (Laughter) The national alliance in your coalition has long been the key force behind it. — Insight. That's why... I don't know how long you still need to understand the relationship between those nine months of act and the birth of a child. ( Interface: “Why the Act? ” ) Well, I guess... ( Insight: ‘ Have you learned about the act? ’) ) Let’s wait another time, let’s wait another time. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U151	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U152	You can't lie and say that we had a very boring meeting of the commission. Then I would lie. We had a very interesting meeting of the Commission. We went into all kinds of interpretations of history, and everyone had something to say. But I have to remind you why, then, we are talking about this issue at the moment. So again: there is the scope of the law, and all the applicants - all - except the Minister of the Interior... all these proposals increase this basic idea in principle, why in general such a draft decision came to the Saeima. We are talking about children - babies or children, call them what you want - who are not yet born, but on January 1, 2020, 00.01 births will get Latvian citizenship. It's 30 children in a year, maybe 33. That's it. This is the draft law. All the other proposals are about extending this draft law, and each one has its own: one in 1991, one in another, one in Latvian, one in Latvian, and one not in Latvian... For one thing, when Grandma was born... And so on. All this distorts the meaning of the law itself. Dear colleagues, support what has been discussed in the Commission. We can come here and talk, fight... Russian - Latvian, Latvian - Russian... That's great! We need to do this now? Do it! I call for support to be given to the proposals discussed within the Commission, and let us go! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U153	I closed the debate. So the Commission's opinion...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U154	The Commission's view is not to support Mr Dombrava's proposal, because it is actually a declarative rule that repeats what is already enshrined in the law. Consequently, the Commission did not support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U155	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Dombravas's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 25, for - 55, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U156	Proposal No 3 is also a proposal from Member Janis Dombrava. Neither is it supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U157	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U158	I would like to talk about 3. - Mr Dombrava's proposal, which is also about children who have not yet been born, that is, about children who will be born in 2020 and beyond. I call on the National Association... Considering that it is obviously the most fearsome Latvian political organisation that fears unborn children (Interview: “Dombrovskis has said something else!” I call, however, for a qualitative amendment to the law to be tabled, which requires that sex also take place nationally, that the transportation of the child take place nationally, and then there will be no problems. Why this irony? Iran is because the child is not guilty of being born in one family or another - a Latvian family or a mixed family, a Russian family or a Pakistani family. The problem is different. The problem is that, with these proposals, you acknowledge that the education system, which should raise a patriotic person born in Latvia, obviously has experienced a fiasco. Because the child... at birth he has no view at all of what is good, who is bad. This is what the education system is creating for him. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. U. Budriķis: “Do the Family!” ) If the education system had been arranged - if the education system had been arranged within these 29 years! - We would not be afraid here of people who have not yet been born in Latvia. I therefore call for consideration to be given to such a proposal in the future if you are so afraid. And closing. If you are afraid of unborn children, I have the feeling that you will be the first to escape if it comes inside the Russian army. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “The first you will fall asleep!” ) Because people who are not afraid of children and want to protect their children protect their children, they stand up for these children, not against them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U159	Colleagues, I would like to remind you, Article 7 of the Code of Ethics for Members of the Saeima, that 'Members shall be based on facts, their fair interpretation and reasoning'. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U160	I know who's going to run off the Russian tanks faster than it was. It's Aldy! I'm sorry, Mrs. Moore! I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Depp. Mr Gobzems: “Why don’t you read the code of ethics?” ) On this proposal. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “It was evidence-based?” ) At the time, in 1991, when the amendments to the Citizenship Act were made and this institution of the former USSR citizen was implemented at all, the motivation behind it was as follows: there are laws of the USSR and the USSR and there is nothing else; if a country declares that it is an heir to the USSR, then there will be the laws of that country, which would then allow these people to acquire citizenship. Now 28 years have passed, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and many others have not done enough to address this problem. My proposal was that these people, who are not themselves voluntary under the age of 21... either parents or young people themselves have not applied for Latvian citizenship... then they are considered not as citizens of the former USSR, but as citizens without passports... as appropriate, from the territory of which the person has entered. This is legally possible, but given that my proposal 1 has not been supported, the meaning of this proposal is lost and I therefore have to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U161	The proposal has therefore been withdrawn. The name to Member Boris Cilevič. ( Milestones.) A debate is also possible on the withdrawal of the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U162	Dear colleagues, This is an excellent example of legal creativity. Apparently, Mr Dombrava recommended that he should withdraw it. Well, of course, a citizen without a passport - it is a new status. How did it not come to mind before Mr. Dombrava that something would be like that? Then we are in front of all other countries in this respect. It is even more interesting that we will decide that a person is a national of another country. In general, international law has so far dominated the principle that only a country can recognise a person as its own citizen or citizen. Now we are going to decide instead of other countries. Mr Dombrava, you know that such a principle of mutual applicability prevails in international law. How would you perceive this if another country recognized some persons living in its territory as Latvian nationals without a passport? ( A FRAUD’S ANSWER.) Depp. Mr Judins: “There will be something on the proposal?” ) That... Well, I'm sorry, but I think before you propose something. Colleagues, you are, however, Members, and that is the fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U163	The debate has not yet been closed. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U164	I will not agree with Mr. Cilevič. What he just said is that the National Association does not think what they are doing. In fact, they understand very well what they're doing, and they're very good... It is a very well thought-out provocation. Provocative of the country of Latvia, which they are constantly implementing. Why are they doing this? Because the meaning and essence of the National Alliance is to create tensions in society here, it's their political capital, that's what... they can get their niche. Because their problem is very simple. They have several lots in one wing that fight for their elite. It is in the interest of the national alliance to radicalise society as much as possible, to make society fragmented. And how can this be achieved? That you make someone in society feel abject that he is somehow... Got it, he doesn't have what everyone else has. Well, in some detail that everyone has passports, you won't have passports! That everyone has citizenship at birth, you won't have citizenship! In order to provoke the fact that someone here feels abject, he does not belong to this country. Of course, he will try to make this protest in some way. He'll go to some monument on May 9th to put flowers... what is your success, which you have done, what you provoked, first of all, to do with the efforts of the legioner of memory in order to get to grips with this reaction. What do you keep both your thumbs and think about how to fuel all this up even more. Let's figure out to blow up this monument at all! Hop, there's a wave right away! That is what you need. And so you're looking for every opportunity - every opportunity! - to threaten our country, our internal stability. This is important to you. The greater the internal instability, the greater your chances of collecting a larger elite for yourself. That's what you refined and finely do. In that sense, you're beatings. You really do get very good. Colleagues! There's nothing left for us like... just gradually mature society and start to understand what is actually what. There are political forces that are interested in reconciliation in the country, and there are those that are interested in national fragmentation, because only in this way can they exist. They are unable to offer anything else to our Latvian state. If you look at the contribution of the National Association, zero, except that always break the Latvians. ( Internouncing call.) To tame Latvians and Abort Gentiles - it is based on all this political capital. ( Internouncing call.) Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for a responsible approach to such proposals by the National Alliance and not to see them as colleagues in your coalition... That is why such proposals should be supported. ( Internouncing call.) Such an approach by the National Alliance is unacceptable in my view, and I call for a strong response to it and for it to be prevented. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U165	I closed the debate. The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U166	The proposal has therefore been withdrawn. We are looking at the fourth of the 12 proposals. Proposal No 4 has been tabled by the Development/About Group. . The Commission is not supported because, in the opinion of the Commission, the wording... the legal wording is not correct and describes a situation which, in theory, cannot exist in nature at all. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U167	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U168	5. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U169	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U170	6. - Member Gobzems' proposal to recognise and grant Latvian citizenship to non-citizens born in Latvia after 21 August 1991. The Commission is not supported by the above-mentioned reason that it is absolutely cardinal to change the scope and idea of the draft law, the spirit that was intended... which came from the Presidential Palace. This proposal has therefore been rejected by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U171	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U172	First of all, I have to say that the thought and spirit of the draft law were to unite Latvian society and put an end to the continued existence of non-citizen status... minimise this status. Consequently, none of the proposals... not only mine, but anyone else is directly connected with the spirit of this bill. For society to understand - in the territory of the independent, free Republic of Latvia as a whole so far... these statistics may have changed for a few people... 10 028 people were born, including 2993 under the age of 15. How many of these people have left the territory of the Republic of Latvia or how many have died - such statistics are unknown. So in this case, there are about 10,000 people, including children and infants. When they were born in Latvia, they did not get citizenship because of their own fault, but because of the fact that it has been popular in Latvian society to create this fragmentation, because otherwise, there would really be no thing for certain political forces to do in politics; it is their only contribution to disintegrating society. However, a divided society is the most vulnerable society to national security. It is internal fragmentation that can threaten our country's security, our country's development, our competitiveness and everything else. We have a great opportunity, and here we must say thank you to our former President of Latvia Raimonds Vējonis, who has been so brave to push this issue after 29 years of brainwashing, talking about Russians coming or coming. The Russians have been here a long time ago. They are already mostly people who are born in the territory of the Republic of Latvia; they all learn Latvian as one language; they study in educational institutions of the Republic of Latvia. There is no need to be afraid of these people. Just as there is no need to fear that very many people in Latvian society work in different foreign companies and are forced to talk in foreign languages every day - English or what... It doesn't change membership of a nation or membership... or, I'm sorry, knowledge of Latvian. My knowledge of Latvian depends on how well I have been taught at school and how well they are maintained in the family. I can only take away my Latvians if I do not have a self-esteem. There is a feeling that you, the National Association, with this issue, have problems that you are afraid of your own self-confidence. For no man in the world can be deprived of his belonging to any particular nation or nation if he cares for his tradition primarily in himself. What we can do. We can unify Latvian society with this proposal and we should not be afraid of 10 000 people, including infants and children. I call for a decision to be taken which will be in line with today's issue of the concept of national security, which includes a section on a cohesive society. Such a proposal is directed towards a cohesive society. Because it is quite clear that we have no other way to unite society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U173	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U174	Can I combine time?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U175	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U176	Colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! I will support this proposal, even if it does not receive the support of the majority of the Saeima, I will support the draft law in its original version, without any further proposal. Unlike Mr Dombrava, I believe that this is something valuable that previous President Raimonds Vējonis did, bearing such a proposal. What I mean so much about this... That is what I have said at first reading and I will not miss your time, it will not be repeated. I'm a little bit about what I heard today, and a little bit about history, about the future. If I did not make a mistake, it was Mr. Kirštein, who used the words “low-value complex”. I mean, yeah. I think that this debate, too, not only in this Chamber but also in the wider public, in my opinion, is a very serious sign of a certain complex of undervalue, because one of the main characteristics of a complex of undervalues is... fear. Fear, in a way, of itself... from simply because someone else is different from you (or perhaps has a different mother tongue or ancestors), he is somehow threatening you. I think we have this little-value complex and that fear of it... they also have an absolutely objective origin. And for the last generations, I think that's... The Latvian... the way in which Latvia was occupied... our opposition and desire to do so all the time so as to show someone with a finger. In fact, even earlier, in fact, non-resistance did not start only in 1940, it started in May 1934, when Latvian society, with the exception of certain citizens, including politicians, did not oppose the destruction of democracy. He allowed members of the Saeima to be taken to the Liepaja camp and held in custody without trial. All this has a clear consequence, and its fears are also visible today... about the Latvian nation and so on. Next year is a youth song and dance festival. I know you're all going there. I call all when those festivals take place, think... at least I always think so when I look at them... especially for pupils and young people at song and dance festivals... There you see that nation generation. I always feel safe at that time: no, with Latvian lifestyle and Latvian culture and its future, everything is absolute, in the best order. And only our own fear can... Our own fears of ourselves and perhaps of a little, a little different people divide our country and also language for a long time... these are our own fears that threaten us. And in conclusion, I'd like two historical comparisons like this... not comparisons, but giving examples of a time when we were not at all afraid of such things... The fact that someone spoke another language in Latvia was not a threat to Latvian culture and the existence of the country. Even in this hall until the May 1934 coup... At the last sitting of the Saeima... The honorable Speaker of the Saeima did not have to knock on a hammer when someone spoke a different language. There were Members who spoke German and Russian from this... conditional... These triples. All they had to do if they wanted their speech to appear on the vernacular was to submit it in writing, translated into Latvian within 24 hours, if I am not mistaken, after the sitting. Whoever did not submit, they disappeared from history. Nobody was afraid of it. It was a time when we were not afraid... And then there was a time in which we were very afraid. The time during which Latvia was administered by dictator Kārlis Ulmanis, who actually committed a crime in May 1934, in accordance with the Latvian Criminal Law, which was in force at that time, should be judged for life in coercion works. His time has still not been evaluated. He was so afraid that he took Latvian citizenship away from a number of Latvian patriots in 1939. Among them were many soldiers of the Lacples War Order - among other characters of the battles of Cesis and Bermontiad. But perhaps the most striking person is Felix Cielen - delegate of the Constitutional Meeting, Member of all four Saeima, Foreign Minister, later Ambassador to France, Spain and Portugal. Felix Cielen deprived him of citizenship because he was one of the most prominent opponents of the Ulman regime. We have where we're afraid to go. We're not there yet. But if I ask you to weigh my weight in the cup, whether we're going to be afraid that someone is speaking another language (I don't say that from this troupe) or whether we're going to focus on the fact that we could start to take citizenship away from our political opponents, then... I feel like it's a variable... this weight cup slowly tends to be that we could also take away citizenship from our political opponents, as we are already trying to take away everything else. ( Internouncing call.) I ask you to think about it. If we want to go ahead, we should first overcome our undervalue complexes and stop fearing ourselves... by yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U177	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U178	Dear President, Honourable Members! Unfortunately, we will have to make a correction to the Rules of Procedure because... The President said that the Member was based on the facts before he spoke, but we had to make a correction that all Members were based on the facts in their speeches, with the exception of Mr Gobzem. Because there's some deviation there, however, this man has. Because if he were based on the facts, he would have known that my father had never served in the army, because he had been imprisoned in a concentration camp, Mr. Gobzem, and it was only at the end of the 1960s. He couldn't even get a pension. If you're interested, I'll show you a rehabilitation act. So Mr. Gobzem obviously has some mental bias. ( Milestones.) But, okay, I'm not going to talk about it anymore. So for this proposal, honorable...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U179	I must once again appeal to the code of ethics of Members of the Saeima that a reference to the state of health of political opponents should not be allowed.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U180	But there are obvious facts, but we cannot deny, honourable Members. There are quite different things here. I thought... I agree that... To a certain extent, yes, perhaps... I agree. (Laughter) To some extent (Dep. A. Gobzem: “How is Slivkin there, huh?” )... To a certain extent, we may deny the fact that (Interior call.) there is no advantage in fact for citizens against non-citizens. There are also some privileges. If there were to be citizenship granted to everyone automatically by some kind of joint decision, then, Mr Gobzem, the rights of those who have such advantages would be violated. I can call you a visa-free trip to Russia. There are many entrepreneurs who almost every month have to drive... who have regular contacts. It is a great privilege - not to stand in line or arrange documents. There are people who are planning to move to other countries in the near future, and they do not want to, let us say, burden themselves with giving up citizenship, because there are also other countries where there is no double nationality. There is a part that does not want to link itself with the nationality of a small country in some way for principle reasons, and they too have the right to do so. We can't offend all this man... to a certain extent rights. If you look further, there is one proposal made by the Minister for the Interior, which also mentions the connection with parents. In any event, they are entitled to determine to a certain extent whether or not the child needs this nationality. The last remark, perhaps - what Mr. Schmidt said about fear. Does the National Association have any fear? Please, please! We are not only Latvians here, in the National Association, we also have people of other nationalities. Absolutely without any problems. But if you're talking about fear, Mr. Schmidt. Ask yourself, ‘ Are the Swiss fearful in some way? ’ They even have local referendums! To grant citizenship, for example, to immigrants from other countries, they are in a municipality, or their municipality, called... a referendum is still taking place, where citizens are still voting on whether or not they want to grant citizenship to this particular person. There is therefore my proposal that we should respect ourselves more and take more account of these interests. Because, once again, the only difference between citizens and non-citizens is the right to vote. This non-citizen, who becomes a citizen, even if he is for hostile purposes, can decide by his vote on the fate of the Latvian people and on the problems of the Latvian nation that are not desirable. So I'm calling you to reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U181	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U182	I've been thinking for some time whether or not to tell me something. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Do not say it!” ) I will, however, say. Unlike many of you, I was in this house during the barricades of January as well as during August. And I don't remember... not during the barricades of January, nor during the guy's... that someone would have chosen in some way those people who protected this house and also guarded those at that time. But one thing I remember is that there were people in this house who were ready to take their families and flee abroad during their dangers - both during the barricades and during the guys. And we are now talking about children born after 1991. We're not even talking about those people who were here guarding this house. I will certainly support this proposal. Then I put it in the opposite way that I believe... But, of course, I will not make such a proposal... that there have been people sitting in this house who would not deserve that they currently have Latvian citizenship. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “One of them comes to the table!” ) Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U183	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U184	Mrs Mūrniece, I would call on you to encourage the code of conduct of Members of the Saeima even when your party members are not talking about the facts. (Applause) And it's also a violation of ethics when you close your eyes to your party members.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U185	Mr Gobzem, I have to turn you off the microphone because the comments on the conduct of the sitting during the Saeima sitting are not admissible. Not allowed! This is also provided for by the parliamentary roll of order. ( Insight: “He didn’t know! ” ) Please address the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U186	Mr. Kirstein! You did not answer the question about the relationship between a possible KGB agent, Sliwkin... with the words “Slivkin”... ( Interface: ‘ Do... Somehow you missed this question. But if you're talking... finished... on this proposal - the problem is already hidden in the fact that all its policies are based... it is based on your policy... Inspire hatred and inspire fear...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U187	On the proposal, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U188	That is also about the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U189	On the proposal!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U190	The essence of this proposal is, as you say, exactly the opposite, encouraging the courage not to be afraid. Do not be afraid of the people who live here are born or born. Those who fear will never be able to defend their country.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U191	Please be precise on the proposal. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “Why can others talk, others can’t talk?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U192	For this reason, today's question is only about fear or courage. I invite you to join the party - those who are brave to raise loyal people to Latvia in the territory of the Republic of Latvia - instead of fearing and maintaining this fear for the next 29 years.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U193	I closed the debate. Is the Commission’s view yet to be expressed?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U194	The Commission did not support this proposal. Please, let's vote!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U195	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Member Gobzem's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 24, against - 52, refraining from - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U196	Proposal No 7 is for the Development/About Groups. Proposal for a Regulation of the Like the previous proposal, this has not been supported, as this proposal substantially extends the objective set out in Article 1 of the original draft law. The proposal was therefore not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U197	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U198	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, We invite non-citizens' children and young people under the age of 15 to be recognised as Latvian citizens, so those who cannot yet apply to become Latvian citizens themselves. There are fewer than three thousand such children and young people in Latvia today, and they are in a very similar situation to those born in non-citizen families before 1 January 2020, only they were born a little earlier. There have been objections: given that the parents of these children do not want to register them as Latvian citizens, can we then force them on Latvian citizenship? It should be recalled here that the UN points out that where parents are unable or unwilling to independently protect their children's rights, the State must act and guarantee the right of the child to citizenship. And this is exactly the case. We believe that the cohesion of Latvian society would only benefit if we took this very small step towards those children and young people who grow up in Latvia who were born in Latvia and who by all means belong to the Latvian people. In fact, they are ours. Moreover, as we know, the granting of citizenship to non-citizens' children is supported by the majority of Latvian society. I call for our proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U199	Name of Member Dace Rukšāne-Šchipčinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U200	At the Spring sitting of the Saeima, in which we debated the referral of the draft law to the commission, many opponents expressed the view that 13. Members of the Saeima should take account of the work of Members of previous parliamentary groups. I cannot fully agree with this, because it is us 13. In the family... That's why 13. There are many newcomers in the family - such as me, for example - to look for better solutions to the various challenges and problems. And the "Development/About!" groups. the proposal for the automatic granting of citizenship to all non-citizens' children and young people under the age of 15 - this is a solution that provides for a sense of belonging to these children, which is only about 2930, and these are people for whom Latvia is the only home. We are not inventing something new; rather we are adapting legislation to solve existing problems and shortcomings. Someone can say that 3 000 children are not many and there are no problems at all, but I would like us, as a country, to take care of every one of our children. Yes, the parents of these children have done nothing to ensure their children's citizenship, but only 12 percent of the non-citizens, when asked about obstacles to naturalisation, point to the reasons for making it easier to travel to Russia. Other reasons are different. Often reasons are lack of time and information, inability to direct public administration rules and procedures. I would not punish the children for choosing their parents and allow them to be automatically granted citizenship of our country, thereby increasing their sense of belonging. I call on Members to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U201	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U202	Colleagues! That proposals have been put forward to expand the population of the Gobzem side, which was supported by Shleser during the pre-election period and which was actively supported by the Group SAVE: it is logical enough. But it really seems strange to me to see that all the fractions “In Development/About!” Members are also ready to support this proposal, which is in fact in favour of the SASCAN, for the benefit of organisations such as the Russian Union of Latvia. It is not necessary to cherish the illusion that those families who did not wish their children to become Latvian citizens will now suddenly become loyal to the country of Latvia and potentially go and support one of the liberal parties. It's an illusion. That is the illusion that I am calling for us to reject - as is the whole of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U203	The name of Member Dace Bluke.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U204	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! So on the proposal that children who are non-citizens of Latvia and were born before 1 January 2020 should be recognised as citizens of Latvia up to the age of 15 if they are not nationals of another country. I want to remind you of three things. First. The proposal applies only to people already belonging to Latvia. These children live in Latvia mostly already in the third generation. They were born in independent Latvia, and Latvia is their only home. They have no other land to call their houses; they have no place to go to live, as you have called. The proposal applies to children of Latvia who are issued with passports by our country, and they are unfortunately non-citizens' passports. Every child has the right to citizenship. Children born in Latvia, parents who are non-citizens, should become Latvian citizens. Secondly. Through the maintenance and granting of the status of non-citizen to newborns for all years of independence, we place the responsibility for acting or failing to act on our parents on the children. Parents do not always make decisions in the best interests of their children. No wonder we understand that if our parents do not care or leave their children. Then the state intervenes and has mechanisms to act. If parents take care of their children but cannot earn enough and the family is poor, then the state and local governments also intervene and provide social support. Even if parents are not willing or unable to protect their children's right to citizenship, the State must intervene and act in the best interests of the child. Thirdly. I would like to remind you that the status of non-citizen was introduced as a temporary solution... and nothing longer than a temporary solution. The aim of introducing the status of non-citizen has never been to continue to grant it to children born in independent Latvia during an endless period. It is time to take steps towards ending the status of non-citizen. These proposals provide for this. I invite you to support automatic allocation... granting citizenship to all non-citizens' children and young people under the age of 15. These are children for whom Latvia is the only home and who already belong to Latvia. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U205	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U206	I will support this group on Development/About! Proposal. In fact, most of the arguments have already been put forward; I can only join them. I only have one such remark. And again, something happens to me Mr. Kirstein like a quote to use... Mr. Kirstein, you mentioned Switzerland, huh? This is a very good example, but I will take it in a slightly different section. I ask everyone to think about the substance... think and get... I will not, I will not give answers, but it is important for everyone to figure it out for themselves - why. It's quite impossible to imagine a situation that someone, let's say, was... The descendants of a USSR citizen or his successor in Switzerland would not want Swiss citizenship for their children. Or just as good - Norwegian, Finnish... And soon - also in Estonia... Why is that with us? Essentially. And when you get an answer to this question, life will become much simpler. In this vote too... (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U207	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U208	By the way, to blink and call someone or put someone in a madram -- that's a classic sign of a Czechs, right? That was what was done in Czech time. And I think Agent Slivkin knows it better than me. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) I will also support - I will also support! - the groups for Development/About! Proposal. It is a softer, softer proposal than my proposal. And here I want to reject the National Alliances again... these fears, which are sown from the barn, and remind Latvian society of what happened last week. Last week, the National Association, in a friendly manner, voted in favour of the waste business... Just like in the Riga City Council some members of the National Association, friendlyly surrounded with the respective... I mean, it's the mayors, too. What is the result? When it comes to the fact that something is at stake, even though there is no real danger, the National Association is coming up in the troupe and showing it its... It's like a face, but when business things have to be done, then you can do it together in your hand. It's a duality, it's a double moratorium! Perhaps in those votes that are not about business, you should do just as you work hand in hand on business matters with those you blame for national hatred or betrayal towards the state and so on... And to involve the children in all this... Absolutely innocent proposal for 2993 people... What 2993 minors can dangerously do to the Republic of Latvia? And in this respect, the proposal is to be welcomed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U209	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U210	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that citizenship is a value. And we don't have to take that value off. ( From a faction: “Children are not value? ” ) At present, any child has the opportunity to obtain citizenship if the parents have applied for it... up to 15 years of age. After the age of 15, children themselves have the opportunity to acquire citizenship on the basis of an application. In order to obtain citizenship, account is also taken of the success of these children in school. If the success has been sufficiently good, these children do not have to pass an appropriate language test. In this case, it would be better to think about getting this citizenship... automatic... What success and objects... should be arranged in school, Dep. V. Dombrovskis: “What success?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “)... That's what I'm calling for... that not just give free of charge without giving value to citizenship... instead you work with populism and devastation of citizenship status. ( Milestones.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U211	Dear colleagues, On the procedure. Before we continue the debate. Members Strīķe, Dzintars, Adamovičs, Latkovskis and Pavļuts are asking to continue the Saeima sitting without interruption - until the examination of the draft law “On the Termination of the Granting of the status of a Non-citizen to Children”. Do Members have objections? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Urbanovičs: “There are objections!” ) Who has reservations? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Jain wants home!” ) Please call us! We will vote for continuing the Saeima sitting without interruption - until the examination of the draft law “On the Termination of the Status of Non-Citizens for Children”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So let's keep the Saeima sitting until the bill is examined. The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U212	Mr. Butane and other Members! I would like to remind you that the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child is also in force in the Republic of Latvia. The first and second paragraphs of Section 6 of the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child state that black to white is: “In legal relations affecting the child, the rights and interests of the child are priorities. All activities relating to the child, whether carried out by public or municipal authorities, public bodies or other natural and legal persons, as well as by courts and other law enforcement authorities, must give priority to the rights and interests of the child.’ This is an imperative rule of law. The right of parents to choose cannot be higher than the right of the child to citizenship. It is the responsibility of the state to automatically grant citizenship to children born in Latvia, as human rights are provided for (Dep. J. Butan: “On the proposal! Look at what the proposal says! It's about a child under 15! Look at the proposal!” ), that every person has the right to citizenship and it is primarily children. I call on the fuel once to stop fearing minor people. They do not threaten Latvia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U213	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U214	Dear colleagues, There is such a UN document - the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is most popular, it is ratified by the most countries of all... the Convention on Human Rights. This Convention makes it very clear that every child has the right to citizenship since birth. So, Mr. Butane, the value is, you know, that's... read, please, this document, which you, as a Member of the Saeima, have long had to do. — Dep. J. Butāns: “Where did I say that there is no right?” ) All international institutions have repeatedly pointed out that it is a clear violation of children's rights to allow the child to remain without nationality immediately after birth. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Butan: “Select the proposals!” ) Please read the opinion of the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child on Latvia! So it's not a gift. You're in this position: now I'm going to decide who's a child's citizenship, who's not. He needs to earn... I'm sorry. The child has a right who... I will not repeat what has already been said... and, in support of this proposal, we will simply correct the gross violation of human rights that we have committed for several years. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Interdependence of the Muižniece.) With regard to parental rights. Yes, of course, parents have the right to decide on a child until the child has grown up, but the state must limit the abuse of these rights. Let me give you one example. I know parents who believe that tobacco smoke is very good for children's health and smoking in the presence of children. But we, the Saeima, decide that such conduct is punishable and prohibit it by law. Stay without nationality - for a child it is even more harmful than smoking in his presence. I invite you to support it!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U215	I closed the debate. The Commission's opinion, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U216	On behalf of the Commission, I call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U217	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - the groups for Development/About! the proposal submitted! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 35, for - 41, for - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U218	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Sanda Girgen. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U219	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U220	9. - Member Gobzem's proposal. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U221	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U222	The nature of this proposal is very simple. It is presumed that people who have completed educational establishments in independent Latvia and have received education in independent educational institutions in Latvia learn both Latvian and history, because otherwise it would not be possible. It would be quite logical if these people were to be granted citizenship. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Muižniece: “It’s not logical!” ) As stated above, the total number of people, including children and infants, is 10 028. The number of proposals in this regard is considerable - considerable! - less, given that children, infants, are about three thousand people. And those who have not finished educational institutions are also part of it. Consequently, I call for support for our education system (interface.) and to vote in favour of our education system being able to give education that is... people who are loyal to Latvia. Those who vote 'no'... In fact, those who vote against will, in my opinion, show clearly and clearly that they do not believe in the existing education system, do not believe what the education system has done for the last 29 years, and believe that our education system continues to give educational documents to non-lovable people in Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U223	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U224	Yeah. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to reiterate that the 9th proposal was not supported because it introduces a new criterion for acquiring citizenship, which is not the aim of this draft law. The Commission is therefore not in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U225	Let's vote! Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - Member Gobzem's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 25, against - 52, refraining from - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U226	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the groups for Development/About! Proposal for a Regulation of the Not supported, as well, the two previous groups on Development/Par! the proposals are not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U227	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U228	11. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Sanda Girgen. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U229	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U230	12. - That's Mr Dombrava's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U231	Members want to have a debate. The name of Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U232	Hello, colleagues! This is the last opportunity to speak about this draft law. ( The drug is noise. Substitution: On the Proposal! ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U233	On the proposal, though...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U234	It has to be acknowledged that both sides of the hall today have been marked by very uproar expressions and personal abuse. ( Intercretion: “All you can do about the proposal! ” ) I really don’t think (Mr. Moore!) ), that in some way it helps our society to become consolidated. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: “Everyone talked about everything!” ; dep. Golubeva: “Not everyone!” ) To be clear ( Dep. S. Riekstins: “Previously what was it?” ) - I, too, will not support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U235	Mrs Ozola, I really have to ask you to talk about the proposal. The proposal provides for the entry into force of the law. ( The drug is noise. (See the box below.) This is a very technical proposal - it is the time when the law enters into force. ( Milestones.) If you could talk about the proposal, I would be very grateful. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U236	I think that, at present, our societies are moving slowly, but very purposefully and safely towards a consolidated society. I am really humble in calling for a more understanding of the issue of citizenship in Latvia because of our society. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U237	Name to Member Janis Dombrava. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U238	With this proposal, we will succeed in bringing the Vējonis-led bill forward for one year, during which time we will have the opportunity to recast it, even if something strange... As a result of this strange action, the Saeima will adopt this bill in all its readings. In general, however, I call for support for this proposal but for the draft law as a whole to be voted against.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U239	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U240	Yes, on behalf of the commission. This proposal was not supported because Jānis Dombrava wanted this... this draft law either... ( FROM a fraction DECLARES: “Noract! ” (Laughter) ... I mean, as... Well, not to be at all. Even if honest, I wonder a little - why only 2021? He was 2029, let's take it, record it. But in this case, the idea is that the law enters into force on 1 January 2020. Consequently, this, last, proposal - 12. - the Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U241	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - Member Dombravas's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U242	On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U243	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on ending the status of non-citizen for children at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 58 (Applause) , against - 27, refrains - not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U244	The deadline is one week - October 3, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U245	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U246	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U247	The deadline for submitting proposals is 3 October this year. Colleagues, time to break. Please call me! Please have Members' presence regime! Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U248	Not registered: Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Inga Goldberga, Kaspars Ģirgens, Inese Ikstena, Ilze Indicksone, Armands Krauze, Maris Kučinskis, Janīna Kursīte, Atis Lejiņš, Arturs Toms Plēšs, Mārtiņš Staķis, Jānis Vucāns and Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U249	Interruption until 3 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U250	Dear colleagues, We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Taxes and Fees”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U251	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! In the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) we have reviewed the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” supported by the Cabinet of Ministers, which lays down detailed procedure for dispute resolution by the State Revenue Service together with the competent authorities of other Member States of the European Union regarding interpretation and application of the Arbitration Convention and tax conventions. This will provide taxpayers with a more effective double taxation framework. The draft law also aims to reduce costs for businesses when tax on the same income is paid twice or twice in two countries. It also aims to promote external direct investment by improving competitiveness. The main elements of the draft law structure are the definition of the term "double taxation", the examination of applications for the opening of a conciliation procedure, the conciliation procedure, the establishment of an advisory commission and the consideration of disputes in the Advisory Commission, as well as the final decision on the settlement of disputes and other issues. The draft law is a major technical amendment. In the Commission, the draft law for the first reading is also supported and supported by the urgency that I am asking for to vote on.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U252	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 61, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U253	I call for the vote on the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U254	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, against and refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U255	The deadline for submission of tenders shall be 11 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U256	And consideration of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U257	The next sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U258	Well, it doesn't come near. (Laughter) Could be 17 October after the deadline for tabling proposals. So the deadline for submitting proposals is really 11 October?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U259	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U260	And consideration of the Saeima sitting? ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U261	12 October. ( Milestones.) No, no... 17. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U262	On 17 October... This is what the Chairman of the Commission on Budgets and Finance (Tax) says: on 17 October. Let's listen to him!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U263	On October 17th.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U264	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 11 October this year...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U265	I'm sorry! On October 17th.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U266	Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 17 October this year. ( Milestones.) Thank you. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Declaration of Property of Natural Persons and Undeclared Income”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Lubova Švecova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U267	The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Declaration of Property Status and Undeclared Income of Natural Persons” is on the agenda (No. 370/Lp13), first reading. ( Creeping.) I'm sorry! The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Declaration of Property Status and Undeclared Income of Natural Persons” is related to the fact that, following the concept of development of the administrative penalty system, it was decided to transfer from the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations, decoding it, liability to special 130 laws, including to this law. Thus, the Special Law of the Sector – the Law on Declaration of Property Status of Natural Persons and Undeclared Income – includes administrative responsibility for non-compliance with the rules of declaration of property status provided for in Section 165.9 of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code. The amendments will enter into force at the same time as the Administrative Liability Law, when the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations will lapse. The Commission supported these amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U268	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the bill “Amendments to the Law on Declaration of Property Status and Undeclared Income of Natural Persons”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U269	The Commission set 1 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U270	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 1 October of this year. Draft Act Amending the Law on Credit Institutions, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Rihards Kozlovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U271	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, On 18 September this year, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission reviewed the draft law prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions” and supported the first reading. The aim of this draft law is to make it more effective and... to create arrangements for operational entities and process promoters to obtain from credit and financial institutions non-disclosure information which they are required to provide in relation to their activities... law... actions. In fact, this bill has been drafted jointly by experts... in cooperation with the Latvian Financial Industry Association... and, in essence, it unifies order with this law. The Cabinet of Ministers is delegated to develop the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which will also determine this common procedure. Therefore, in general, I ask you to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U272	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U273	October 18th, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U274	This year... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U275	October 18th.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U276	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 18 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U277	Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Excise Tax”. It is about another episode of economic development in Latvia, so to speak: years were spent on creating a biofuel industry, but then thought about the sector and... it was eliminated. That's why part of this production... There were exemptions from the excise duty for biofuel producers. Now, according to the European Commission's instructions, its discounts should be abolished. The situation is precisely as follows: on the one hand, without removing it without withdrawing its discounts, an infringement procedure on the part of the European Commission could be initiated, but on the other hand, removing its discounts in this way could represent a serious threat to hundreds of small farmers. At the Commission meeting, we learned that the Ministry of Agriculture is against this draft law, although, as I understood in the government sitting, the Minister of Agriculture supported the draft law. But that... in public... At Commission meetings, as you know, Members tend to vote with conscience, at parliamentary sittings - according to the coalition board's assessments, after... Most of these draft laws were not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U278	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar. ( The box “Do not let him go, do not let him go! ”) (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U279	Colleagues! It is not free to increase its excise duties, as its ecological footprint is of sufficient importance to this biofuel... Well, let's say that... to produce and use it... than the benefits of nature as a whole... Therefore, colleagues, I call on you to support the government that has sent this bill and to support our nature, otherwise... Otherwise, nothing will be good. Let us therefore vote in favour! Thank you. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U280	The debate is closed. Is there any more to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U281	Yeah. There were as many as two votes in the Commission sitting on a proposal from the chairman of the commission. The first vote was negative; in the second vote, more Members voted against or abstained than in the first vote. Well, then... As we know, the coalition council held its meeting on Monday (Intellect.) ... All of you will now show you the cards you have to vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U282	You have now reported on behalf of the Commission, if any. Please report on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U283	The Commission did not support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U284	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 56, for - 7 and for - 19. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals. ( Interface: “Step 18! ” ) The deadline for tabling proposals, Mr Dombrovskis! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Dombrovskis: The Eighteenth! ) The deadline for submitting proposals is 18 October this year. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Credit Register Act’, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U285	Dear colleagues, On 18 September, the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Credit Register”, which has been prepared by the Ministry of Finance and approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. The draft law provides for the use of technological solutions, which ensure easier remote identification, which could be very important for the development of FinTech companies in Latvia, in accordance with laws and regulations on identification of persons. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has supported this draft law, and on behalf of the Commission, I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U286	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading draft law on Amendments to the Credit Register Act! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U287	The deadline for submitting proposals is 11 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U288	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 11 October this year. The first reading of the draft law “On disposal of part of real estate “Ozolsalas” in Ķekava municipality, Ķekava municipality, for public needs – implementation of the main road project “E67/A7 Ķekava bypass””. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U289	During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 24 September, the draft law “On disposal of the part of real estate “Ozolsalas” in Ķekava municipality, Ķekava municipality for public needs – implementation of the main road project “E67/A7 Ķekava bypass”” was discussed. In order to implement the project “E67/A7 Ķekava bypass” it is necessary to dispose of part of the land plot of the real estate “Ozolsalas” in 0,8398 hectares in Ķekava municipality, Ķekava municipality. That part of the real estate is disposed of for the development of transport infrastructure and the disposal is the only way to achieve this objective. By decision of 1 December 2017, the Ministry of Transport confirmed the amount of a fair remuneration for the part of the land unit of the real estate Ozolsala in an area of 0,84 hectares. The joint owners of real estate, E. Petrova and M. Ernstson, have not agreed to the disposal of the part of the real estate Ozolsala corresponding to the amount of remuneration calculated. ( Insight: “Who was the second? ” ) Ernstson. The joint owners, G.Jēkabsons and M. Čerpinskis, have not replied. ‘ The State Roads of Latvia” has repeatedly addressed the owners of real estate both in person and by telephone, explaining the disposal process in order to conclude an agreement on the voluntary disposal of real estate. The representative of the real estate joint owner has indicated by phone that it will not be possible to conclude a purchase agreement with all joint owners. ‘ On 17 July 2018, the State Roads of Latvia” sent a repeated notice to joint owners of real estate with an invitation to announce the possibility to conclude an agreement on the voluntary disposal of real estate, setting the deadline - 31 August 2018. Upon receipt of the notification, the State Roads of Latvia has not received the consent of all joint owners to conclude a purchase agreement within the specified time limit. Taking into account that the agreement on the voluntary disposal of immovable property necessary for the needs of the Company was not concluded within the period specified in paragraph 1 of Article 11 of the Law on the Expropriation of Real Estate, the preconditions laid down in Article 13 of the said Law for the consideration by the Saeima of the draft law on the forced expropriation of immovable property for the needs of the company are fulfilled. The Legal Commission has supported the first reading of the draft law. I also call on my colleagues to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U290	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On disposal of part of real estate “Ozolsalas” in Ķekava municipality, Ķekava municipality, for public needs – implementation of the main road project “E67/A7 Ķekava bypass” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U291	The deadline for submitting draft legislative proposals is 1 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U292	The deadline for submitting proposals is 1 October of this year. Examination of own-initiative proposals The draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 417 Latvian citizens “State to support patients with severe disease melanoma, as is the case in Lithuania and Estonia”. Member of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications Andris Skride.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U293	On 10 September 2019, the Saeima received a collective application from 10 417 Latvian citizens entitled “State to support patients with severe disease melanoma, as in Lithuania and Estonia”, and on 24 September, yesterday... yesterday, the application was received by the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications, and was examined by the Commission at its meeting on 25 September this year. The Commission heard a representative of the applicants who pointed to the discriminatory treatment of existing melanoma patients, as well as possible solutions, e.g. by excluding the words “naïve patients” from the conditions of prescription of the national medicinal product eligible, thus ensuring that melanoma was initially treated at a level not lower than that of other European countries, including Lithuania and Estonia. The Commission unanimously decided to refer this Latvian citizens' initiative to the Social and Labour Commission for further evaluation, and the Commission asks to support the preparation of the Saeima's draft decision on the future of the 10 417 Latvian citizens' collective application "The State to support patients with severe disease melanoma, as in Lithuania and Estonia". Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U294	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 417 Latvian citizens “State to support patients with severe disease melanoma, as is the case in Lithuania and Estonia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Colleagues! The agenda of the sitting has been examined. I must inform you of the answers to Members' questions scheduled today. Member Dombrovskis, Agešina, Švekova, Papules, Cilevičs and Lochmeles-Lunovo Minister for Welfare Ramonas Petravičs on a possible reduction in the amount and cost of unemployment benefits. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but the oral Members do not wish to ask further questions. Member of the Ministry of Welfare of Klementyeva, Orlova, Rubika, Agešina and Ribakova, Minister for Welfare Ramonas Petraviča “On the action of the Ministry of Welfare to prevent cases of fraud of child parental benefits”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that no oral answer can be given. Member Klementyeva, Zariņa, Agešina, Orlova and Ribakova question to the Minister for Health Ilze Viņķelis “On possible cases of fraud of child parental benefits” and Member of the Minister for Health Ilze Viņķelis, Švekova, Ločmeles-Lunova, Zariņa, Krišāns and Cilevičs question to the Minister for Health “On possible fraud and restriction of competition in the procurement of the Ministry of Health”. The written replies received are not satisfied. The Minister informs that no oral reply can be received because of the presence in the USA. On the question of Member Stepanenko, Liepiņa, Smita, Gobzem and Sprūde, Minister for Economics Ralf Nemiro, about the Ministry of Economics' unclear position on the issue of support for tenants of denationalised houses. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but the oral Members do not wish to ask questions. So today's answers to Members' questions will not happen. New questions have also been received from Members. Members Zarins, Orlovs, Agešins, Urbanovičs and Ribakovs submitted the question “On the action of the Ministry of Economics regarding the results of the verification of the ‘OIC power plants’ connection scheme” that is submitted to the Minister of Economics. Members Zarins, Orlovs, Agešins, Ribakovs, Pimenovs and Rubiks submitted a question “On the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers regarding not ensuring that the increase in funding provided for by the Health Care Financing Law is not ensured for the payment of the health care workers”, which is submitted to the Minister of Health for reply. Members Zarins, Agešins, Rubiks, Krišāns and Pimenovs presented the question “On the rule of law of government decisions and understanding of the principle of the rule of law of the Republic of Latvia’s Minister of Justice”, which we hand over to the Minister of Justice. Members Zarins, Adamsons, Urbanovičs, Cilevičs and Krišāns submitted a question “On the legality of the actions of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers by refusing to provide Parliament with the information requested in the request regarding transactions carried out by the state enterprise Latvenergo”, which we give to the Prime Minister to reply. And the Members Liepiņa, Stepanenko, Sprūde, Gobzems and Schmidt submitted the question “On limiting cash costs to employees of public administrations”. Name for motivation to Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U295	Dear colleagues, Back in 1999, Prime Minister Andris Šķele issued an order to limit cash costs, which determined how remuneration should be paid to employees working in the public administration. And there's no word there that they should compensate for any costs associated with maintaining a current account or payment cards. As Janis Reirs, Minister of Finance, replied to us last week, the employees of the State Revenue Service have received such compensations and their amount is over 50 thousand in three years. Then we also want to know with this question what other administrations are, to what extent... I think that such compensation may have been received in other institutions as well. We want to find out the true motives and amounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U296	The question is submitted to the Minister of Finance Janis Reirs. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Time for notifications. Dear colleagues, After 20 minutes, all Members - with both allowances and those who have not yet received them - will receive security training organised by the Saeima Administration in the Baltic Hall of Saeima. The request to leave telephones and other smart devices in work offices or to assign someone else to them. ( Milestones.) Name for Maria Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, to report on the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U297	Not registered: Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla (Dep. D. Beitnere-Le Galla: “I am!” )... I'm sorry, yes, Sergey Dolgopolovs, Raivis Dzintars, Inga Goldberga, Kaspars Ģirgens, Inese Ikstena, Ilze Indicksone, Armands Krauze, Māris Kučinskis, Janīna Kursīte, Atis Lejiņš, Arthur Toms Plēšs, Mārtiņš Staķis, Jānis Vucāns, Ivars Zariņš and Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-26-PT13-2010-U298	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
