ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U1	Dear colleagues, So the system works. Work can be continued. Thanks to the Technical Department. (Applause) The agenda for the meeting on 19 December 2019 has started to be examined. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Waste Management Act” to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft decision “On the dismissal of Aria Ulasevičas, a judge of Zemgale district court from the position of a judge”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft decision “On the appointment of the Līga Ašiitok as a district (city) court judge” to be included on the agenda of the sitting and the Legal Commission asks for the draft decision to be included before paragraph 2 of the agenda. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft decision “On the appointment of Edite Turkopule as a judge of a district (city) court” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. The Commission shall ask for the draft decision to be included before point 2 of the agenda. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Public Prosecutor’s Law” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft legislation shall be included on the agenda of the sitting. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption is asking to include the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power” on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Latkovskis, Pavļuts, Pucens, Strīķe and Dzintars are asking to move paragraph 2 of the agenda of the Saeima sitting - draft decision “On expressing distrust to the Cabinet of Ministers led by Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš” - on... So we need to look at it as the last item on the agenda. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) There are objections. Please call me! We will vote for item 2 of the agenda of the Saeima meeting – draft decision on distrust to the Cabinet of Ministers led by Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš – to consider as the last item on the agenda! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. So this item on the agenda will be discussed as the last sitting (from the Group's perspective: 'I don't have a voting system!' ; dep. A. Neighbours: “Then we vote with our hands!” )... So we're going to vote again? That's what the Technical Department is doing, Colleagues. Colleagues! I have a question - have you taken off the voting cards (interim call.) - Before we get back to work? Because I... Please remove everyone and delay them back in the voting card system! Remove and put back!... How long? So the Technical Department is asking for a technical break, half an hour. Now it's 13.40. By 2.30 p.m. Technical Interruption until 2.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U2	Honourable Members! Honourable Members! ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Please take your seats in the Chamber. ( Milestones.) Please take your seats in the Chamber. Please remove your voting cards from the equipment! ( Insight: “Show that we have taken away! ” ) Please... We took it? Please insert voting cards in the voting panels! Did everybody do it? Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! ( The drug is noise. Sub-words: Yes! ; “ Ooo!” ) Please call again! Honourable Members, technical vote. Vote as you wish - for, against, abstain - but please vote! ( The drug is noise. (See the box below.) Please get the result! Thank you. Very good result. Very good result! ( Milestones.) So we can go on. Members Latkovskis, Pavļuts, Pucens (Sitting Manager knocked with hammer.) , Strīķe and Dzintars ask for item 2 “On expression of distrust to the Cabinet of Ministers led by Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš” to be moved and discussed as the last item on the agenda at this sitting of the Saeima. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) There are objections. Please call me! We will vote for item 2 “On distrust for the Cabinet of Ministers led by Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš” to be discussed as the last item on the agenda of the ordinary sitting of the Saeima! Please vote mode! ( From a political group, I am not working on a voting card!) ) Please see the result. For - 78, for - 11, for - 1. Decision adopted. Who doesn't work for? ( Interfaces: “78 Is not working! ” “It’s okay!” (Laughter) The decision has been taken. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Public Prosecutor’s Law” presented by the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power” presented by the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption be referred to the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections (Interface: ‘No!’) ) against referral of the draft law to the commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the granting of leave. For granting unpaid leave to Anita Muižniece, Member from 14 January to 16 January 2020. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for granting unpaid leave to Anita Muižniece, Member from 14 January to 16 January 2020! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 93, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. ‘ Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal, expression of trust or distrust of officials’. Draft decision “On the dismissal of the judge of Zemgale district court Aria Ulasevičas from the position of judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U3	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 17 December, the draft decision “On the dismissal of Aria Ulasevičas, a judge of Zemgale district court from the office of a judge” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on the judge of Zemgale district court to release Ārija Ulasevičs from office of a judge at his own wish from February 1, 2020.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U4	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the dismissal of Aria Ulasevičas, a judge of Zemgale district court from the office of a judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The decision ‘On the appointment of the Līga Ašiitok as a judge of a district (city) court’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U5	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 17 December, the draft decision “On the appointment of Līga Ašiitok as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I invite you to appoint Līga Ashitok as a judge of a district (city) court.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U6	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the appointment of the Līga Ašiitok as a judge of the district (city) court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The draft decision “On the appointment of Edite Turpopule as a judge of a district (city) court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U7	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 17 December, the draft decision “On the appointment of Edite Turpopule as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission of the Saeima, I call on Edite Turkopulis to appoint a judge of a district (city) court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U8	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the appointment of Edite Turpopule as a judge of a district (city) court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 94, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption asks the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power” to be reviewed at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. Order of business... ( Internouncing call.) Are there any objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Please call us! We will vote for the first reading without re-examination of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Judicial Power””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 71, for - 1, for - 17. Decision adopted. The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption is asking to review draft law “Amendments to the Public Prosecutor’s Office Law” at first reading without re-examination by the commission responsible. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Please call us! We will vote for the first reading without re-examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Public Prosecutor’s Office Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 70, for - 2 and for - 19. Decision adopted. Consequently, the draft law will be examined at first reading. Examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Elections of City Council and District Council of the Republic”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission – Member Dace Bluķe. Mr Valaiņš, you want to speak in the debate? Please turn on the microphone for Victor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U9	Could anyone explain why we are looking at this bill if the commission responsible has decided not to look at it today at the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U10	Yes, honourable colleagues. On December 12, in the Saeima sitting, we decided these two draft laws – “Amendment to the Law on Elections of City Council and District Council of the Republic” (No. 512/Lp13) and draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Municipalities”” (No. 516/Lp13) - as a matter of urgency to put on the agenda of the sitting on 19 December this year and also to examine it. This took place here in the Chamber with the consent of the Saeima Members. We have received a letter from the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government that the Commission does not support the forwarding of the said draft laws for the second reading for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima. At the same time, the panel did not decide to exclude these draft laws from the agenda of the sitting. Consequently, according to the decision of the sitting of 12 December this year, those draft laws are to be considered at the sitting of the Saeima on 19 December. At the same time, the commission responsible has submitted tables of the two draft laws, together with the opinions of the Commission, on each proposal and also on the draft law as a whole, and is proposing to the Members for decision. Consequently, the commission responsible must be deemed to have completed the work on the two draft laws and we can look at them at the sitting of the Saeima on 19 December, as we decided at the sitting on 12 December. Please turn on the microphone for Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U11	On the procedure. I am reading this document and it is written that the Commission has not supported the adoption of the two draft laws for the second reading. Therefore, Mrs Mūrniece, it is important to stress that the Legal Bureau has also pointed out that the parliamentary roll of order does not foresee the situation, there is no situation in the parliamentary roll of order - if the commission does not direct the draft law. It is not then put to the vote, it cannot be seen at all. As such rules of procedure, such procedure does not exist, it is not governed by the Rules of Procedure of the Seimas. For your part, Mrs Mūrniece, I would like to explain how the Bureau allows such a situation without such regulation and with the opinion of the Legal Bureau that such a draft law cannot be passed on to the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U12	Please turn on the microphone for Victor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U13	I'm on the same. I have at my disposal a document where the former head of the Legal Bureau, Mr Kusiņš, has made a similar situation, where recommendations are made on how to deal with such a situation. First of all, it may be possible to change the composition of the committee, maybe to change the committee of responsibility, but in the entire regulatory framework it is said that without the opinion of the parliamentary committee, it is not possible to view it at the sitting of the Saeima. The law does not allow this. Of course, the Saeima can vote and do everything in its mind, but yet I would call on the coalition and the opposition to respect fair rules of the game, and here you violate them. The representatives of the Legal Bureau reminded us today, even in the Commission, once again of all these possible solutions, and there was no solution that the Saeima simply took and voted.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U14	Please turn on the microphone for Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U15	Yes, honourable colleagues. Having also referred to Mr Kusiņš’ opinion, I would like to quote from you the ‘Regulation on the preparation, presentation and progress of draft laws in the Saeima’. Consequently, the Law of 3 July 2006. Paragraph 70(2) of the Statute states that the committee shall “take a decision on the adoption of a draft law for second reading at the sitting of the Saeima”. It follows that not only should the commission responsible give an opinion on each of the proposals submitted, but it is also imperative that a decision be taken on the progress of the draft law for the second reading. Otherwise, the stage of preparation shall not be deemed to have been completed. And only the commission responsible shall be entitled to take such a decision. That means... The commission responsible, as we see from the opinion, has not taken a decision to push this draft law forward. This means that we cannot look at this draft law today. This was also indicated by the Legal Office at the relevant commission meeting. Mr Danovska, representative of the Legal Bureau, said that it was impossible to vote on progress, because the vote at the commission meeting was the same - 6 against 6. This means that no decision is taken and the draft law is not moved further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U16	Please turn on the microphone for Inese Lībins-Egner.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U17	Dear colleagues, We are indeed in a situation of precedent. And so if the roll of order of the Saeima does not give us a direct answer on what to do on such a procedural issue, but the Saeima with its vote... in working order... has entrusted the commission with submitting this draft law to the Commission today... the draft law is submitted without a decision to direct it to this Saeima sitting, but... Unlike your 2010 precedent... These draft legislative tables are on the agenda of the Saeima sitting today. Work on reviewing the bill... on the proposals... has been completed. ( Internouncing call.) The Saeima Bureau shall not be authorised to take a decision to exclude any urgent draft law from the agenda decided by the Saeima, even more so if the commission responsible for such a request has not expressed it. We have not received a request from the Bureau to exclude the draft law from the agenda of the Saeima. No request has been received by the Saeima to extend the deadline for tabling this draft law (Interinstitutional statement) ... or any other request about which... which the Bureau could put before you today for a vote. Consequently, such an unregulated issue should be resolved by the Saeima by voting. The Bureau may not decide on such matters alone.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U18	Please turn on the microphone for Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U19	Yes, this issue is clearly and precisely regulated in the parliamentary roll of order. Thus, without a decision of the Commission, the draft law cannot be seen at the Saeima sitting. Otherwise, I have a proposal - well, then not only do we abolish the parliamentary roll of order as such, but we also do away with the commissions. So what do we do with those commissions? So what do we do with the procedure? From a legal point of view, the decisions taken by the Saeima are of two nature - in essence... and procedural nature. And the procedural nature is the one on the basis of which the Constitutional Court subsequently disputes and can repeal the adopted regulatory acts. That is why I also asked a question to which I have not received a reply from the Bureau so far - which part of the roll of order of the Saeima indicates that it is possible to consider this draft law at the Saeima sitting without the decision of the committee to direct the draft law to the second reading?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U20	Please turn on the microphone for Victor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U21	Well, I think colleagues, this is a difficult situation. We read the same document here (at least part of it). But... Mrs. Lībiņa-Egnere offered... called on the Saeima to take a decision, but the decision must be prepared for that decision. And I call for this draft law to be returned to the Commission and for the commission to be held, and it is precisely about the procedure then and... not to talk from the head of all here, but to talk about the possible solutions to the situation. I believe that this issue cannot be addressed today at the Saeima sitting, and I call on colleagues to respect it and not to violate the law at the moment.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U22	Ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed in a different situation, as Mrs Lībiņa-Egnere has emphasised. Not all issues in the parliamentary roll have been regulated and regulated in nuance. That is not possible at all. But unlike the opinions of the Legal Bureau mentioned above, this is a different situation, because the committee has sent the draft legislative tables to the Saeima, and so we assume that we are offering Members for decision. ( Internouncing call.) The Commission has not asked for these two draft laws to be removed from the agenda of the Saeima sitting. Such a request shall not be made to the Bureau. The Bureau therefore proposes that Members of the Saeima decide this issue here at the Saeima sitting, because on 12 December we decided to examine these two draft laws today, on 19 December. The Commission has done... draft the documents proposed to the Members for a decision today. This is a situation which is different from the one mentioned in the opinions of the Legal Office. Please, turn on the microphone for Gundar Many!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U23	President of the Saeima and honorary Mrs Inese Lībiņa-Egneres! Article 86, second paragraph of the parliamentary roll... And that runs counter to what Inese said a moment ago that this is not regulated anywhere. The second paragraph of Article 86: ‘The Bureau of a draft law which the commission responsible supported... shall put on the agenda of the Saeima’s next ordinary sitting...’. The draft laws have not been supported by the Commission. So, despite the fact that we set a deadline for submitting proposals in advance... Since it was an urgent draft law, we also set a time when we will consider... but does not exclude the second paragraph of Article 86. I am speaking simply right now, well, because I do not think anyone wants this law, which could be adopted, which could reasonably be challenged by the Constitutional Court. Well, maybe... Well, let us be collegial and honest both against each other and against those people who have elected us.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U24	Please turn on the microphone for Inese Lībiņš-Egner!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U25	I would like to respond very briefly to the remark that Article 86 of the parliamentary roll of order regulates the examination of the draft law at first reading. Indeed, first-reading... The Bureau may rely solely on a decision of the commission responsible. As for the second reading, depending on whether the draft law is declared urgent or not, the Rules of Procedure set a different order, and you also know, Mr Dauges, that the Bureau, when preparing the agenda, is based on a decision taken by the Saeima on which date the urgency will be examined... as an urgent draft law recognised at second reading. It is not a decision of the Presidium of the Saeima. At the meeting of the Saeima Bureau, when the agenda for that sitting of the Saeima is announced, there is no information about the decision of the committee. Often the commission takes a decision on urgent draft laws shortly before the examination of the draft law here, in the sitting of the Saeima. There are no deadlines for Members to have access to these draft laws. The Bureau has no right here, because simply the Bureau is not involved in this matter. The Commission shall implement the Saeima's decision on a time limit or shall request the withdrawal from the agenda or the extension of the time limit set by the Saeima. In the present case, the Commission did not request any of these requests. The Bureau has not even had the opportunity to put one of the committee's decisions to the vote. This is an unprecedented situation that the Commission has simply not indicated how we should act. Consequently, my call would be as a parliamentary state: to allow action to be chosen if the law does not make it clear, by means of a vote. That would be democratic.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U26	Please turn on the microphone for Sergey Dolgopolov!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U27	Dear colleagues, In a parliamentary country, the rule of law is first and foremost respected, which... accepted by Parliament. That's the point one. Two points. Here, a number of references by the Bureau to the annexed table show that it is necessary to establish the status of an official document for this table. This table has only an informational nature today, it is not an official document that should be annexed to the Commission's decision to direct the draft decision to the sitting of the Saeima. And the third moment. The last rulings of the Constitutional Court in all cases, where different norms of law are challenged... to a large extent, if not in the majority, are based on procedures. And in this case, if its procedure were to create even doubts about the existence of a violation of the law, it would already be sufficient for this issue not to be dealt with by the Saeima at the sitting, because we ourselves create precedents for non-compliance and disrespect of the law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U28	We also have no reason to remove these two draft laws from the agenda of the sitting because the Commission has not asked for it. On the contrary, the chairman of the commission has signed a letter of invitation to the Saeima Bureau, sending the whole stamp, with signature. It has been registered and both draft legislative tables have also been sent. Please turn on the microphone for Victor Valain!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U29	Yeah. I refer to this letter, which you mention. I am a member of this commission. When the Commission decided on this letter... it happened today at 10:35. The reason why such a letter... I don't know what to ask for... It may be that such a letter has been sent directly to the Bureau at its request. We simply informed the Bureau of what had happened in the Commission. In the Commission, we decided... We also mentioned that the exclusion decision, which would be the only legal decision at this point in time... the Commission was also voted but not supported. But this letter is only informative so that you have information that has happened in the commission responsible and not by calling you to do anything or not. This is an information message that... That's the motivation we sent to you. Well, if you are reading some other motivation in this letter, then it must definitely be put to the vote, because that is not the motivation why I have supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U30	Turn on the microphone for Gundars Many!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U31	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you once again... and disagree with the opinion of my colleague, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, because Article 86 is general regulation on what draft laws may be included on the agenda of the Saeima sitting. Go on. Rule 87 speaks of the documents required for the first reading. And the second reading is referred to in verses 96 and 96.1. Rule 86 speaks of the general order without any reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U32	Turn on the microphone for Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U33	And a little bit more from the case law. Procedural rules (as is the roll of order of the Saeima) are mandatory rather than declaratory rules. This means that the procedural rules cannot be translated, how to apply the... how we want to apply, but they apply as they are written. We can interpret the declarative legal provisions much more broadly: that is... as the substantive legal provisions that we... we can choose what to do in the situation. But... in any proceedings, including the parliamentary procedure, there is an mandatory regulation, from which the Bureau may not refuse its interpretation after a volunteer.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U34	Okay. Dear colleagues, I call on you not to apply any more for a procedure to talk about. Let us give a word to all those who have applied, but more call for them not to apply. Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U35	Yeah, thank you. Dear and honourable colleagues! I am neither a prosecutor nor a lawyer nor a judge (Laughter). Thank you very much. , but here we have heard a number of opinions, and we could continue to compete with each other until the next day or even next week, which is more legally qualified to give it the right decision. There is an explanation from the Bureau. We decide accordingly. If any doubt arises, the authorities concerned may seek and challenge it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U36	Turn on the microphone for Aldis Adamovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U37	Hello, dear colleagues! So it is not true that the panel has not made decisions. Both draft laws have been adopted by the Commission. The Commission has examined all the proposals and decided not to support these two draft laws. ( Interfaces: “Do not direct! ” ; “Do not direct!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U38	Turn on the microphone for Inese Lībins-Egner. ( Insight: “Do not lead to the sitting of the Saeima either! You can listen to it in the audio record of the sitting!” ) Let me speak to Member Inese Lībiņš-Egner!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U39	Dear colleagues, On the parliamentary roll, Rule 86, I do not undertake to interpret it in voluntarily, I am based on me and on everyone else... The explanations given to the Bureau that Rule 86 of the Saeima's Rules of Procedure only applies to the first reading. They were repeatedly referred to by the Legal Bureau to the oral Bureau today, otherwise the fourth paragraph would apply to other readings than the first reading, and the draft law could, despite the final decision of the committee responsible, request a hearing at the sitting of the Saeima. Such practice has not been in the Saeima that for the second or third reading the draft law applicants, contrary to the decision of the committee, could direct the draft law under consideration. Consequently, the Bureau indicated to me and to the other members of the Bureau that Article 86 was only applicable at first reading. So, on my part, I can just tell you... which is my duty as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U40	Turn on the microphone for Janis Izalnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U41	Colleagues, I think we have all heard arguments from both sides about what to do in a legally explicit situation relating to the parliamentary procedure. Given that this is not about any obligation on citizens, but this is a purely procedural question of how the Saeima should act in its own capacity, I think the Saeima as a whole is entitled to decide how to resolve such an unregulated issue itself, and to do so by voting in this Chamber. Consequently, I would like to call for a move to this vote... how we deal with this situation, which is not dealt with directly in the Rules of Procedure, as we do with our vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U42	So there is a proposal to vote in favour of both draft laws at the Saeima sitting. Turn on the microphone for Jūlija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U43	Dear colleagues, First of all, I would like to remind you that anyone can apply for a procedure. No application may be prohibited. That's the first. Question two: If we are talking about the issue under consideration, I would like to remind you that the commission responsible has not asked for these two draft laws to be included in the parliamentary sitting today. All that the Commission has asked for, to be placed on the agenda for the sitting of 12 December, to ask for a first reading and to declare it urgent, but nowhere is a document in which the Commission would have requested that the two draft laws be placed on the agenda for the sitting. The fact that they have appeared is a decision by the Bureau, but this is not a request from the Commission. ( Interface: “We have already heard it! ” ) And I would also like to draw you... draw your attention to the fact that the attached documents, which the panel has submitted at the request of the Bureau, are so called a draft law table... tabulated table of proposals. Not examined. And there is also a very large difference when it comes to the Commission's decision. This confirms once again that the Commission has not taken a decision and the Commission has not decided to direct these two draft laws to the Saeima sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U44	Please turn on the microphone for Sergey Dolgopolov. Colleagues, these arguments are starting to repeat for the third time. Please either provide new ones or move to work.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U45	Dear colleagues, If there really was no procedural document such as the Saeima order roll, the Saeima could really change the rules of the game in every meeting. Unfortunately, that document, which regulates all procedures, is summarised as one law that sets out all the procedures that take place in the Saeima. Therefore, in this case it would be accurate and correct to change the String of Order (it may be necessary to do so in order to rule out situations of this kind) rather than to resolve individual situations by ignoring the String of Order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U46	Please turn on the microphone for the Member Ivars Zariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U47	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues! I'd offer you... I would suggest not to continue the debate, because it is obvious, however, that there is no legitimate basis for this. And, as there is no legitimate basis, I suggest to my coalition colleagues that we look at this bill in the order of 'uncompromising justice', because the law does not have to be respected, the roll of order does not have to be followed. Thank you. ( Internoint.) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U48	Please turn on the microphone for Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U49	There can be lawyers and lawyers who have never been a lawyer, and I have never been a lawyer, but one thing I understand. At first reading, it was said that these draft laws would be seen today. And the roll of order is very smart in that sense: many things are intended. You see, the commission shared 6 votes against 6 and could not make such a decision. If the commission were decisive and could take a decision, they would certainly have taken the decision that has been taken in many other cases - to remove these draft laws from the agenda. Such a decision has not been taken. There is no need to fear democracy. In this case, a smaller democratic representation has not been able to accept quality... to make any decision, because the votes have been cast by 50 against 50, there are no other options than this - to pass it on to the larger representative. I therefore think it is necessary to vote in this case and to move on to work.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U50	Please turn on the microphone for Victor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U51	Yes, I will follow the instructions and will not repeat my arguments and... Colleagues, but this story is still about democratic values and about a fair game between the coalition and the opposition. And think about it! Because when we started looking at this issue, the rules of the game were all the same. You have lost this game and are now able to change the rules of the game in the course of the game. So this isn't funny. Think of what you're doing! ( Insight: “We don’t play anything... “)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U52	Dear colleagues, So I have heard two rational proposals in the debate on the procedure. The first is Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal to refer the matter back to the Commission. Unfortunately, at this point in time, we cannot apply this because, after the first paragraph of Rule 136, the proposal must be submitted in writing to the Bureau. That's not the case. ( Interface: “There is an application! ” ) There is a motion from the Speaker to vote in favour of examining draft laws at the Saeima sitting at the present time. ( Milestones.) That's enough! We have debated the procedure, colleagues. We have moved on to proposals (Minimum: "Where can you apply... ?” ; “Let’s vote!” ; “Let’s vote!” )... Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Elections of City Council and District Council of the Republic” (No. 512/Lp13) and draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Municipalities”” (No. 516/Lp13) examination of the Saeima sitting on 19 December 2019! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 52, against - 42, abstaining - not. Decision adopted. So these draft laws are seen in the Saeima sitting. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Elections of City Council and District Council of the Republic”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission – Member Dace Bluķe.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U53	Hello, colleagues! In its meeting of 18 December this year, the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government reviewed the draft law “Amendment to Law “On Local Government””. There was a debate on all the proposals and also a vote on all the proposals. 1. - a proposal submitted by the Legal Office. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U54	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U55	2. - a proposal submitted by a political group. The Commission was not supported. ( Intercretion: Vote!) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U56	Are Members willing to vote? Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the Group's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U57	3. - a proposal prepared by the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U58	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U59	4. - The proposal from Member Arthur Thomas Plesh. It was partly supported and included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U60	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U61	5. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U62	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U63	Yes, colleagues, this proposal is, let us say, in the terminology of sport, a fair game, and in this case, I think, whether this move, which you carried out earlier, to include this issue in the sitting of the Saeima today, will be evaluated, I think, not just (Interest.) ... not only in these premises, but also in other institutions such as the Constitutional Court (Interface: “Ventspils!” )... I would say, very probably. With regard to this proposal. Well, a fair game... fair game. If we look... Is there a difference between emergency elections for one year or five years? I think the difference is big enough, both in terms of how to prepare for it and in terms of how to... the natural duration of the action. The draft law presented at the moment is a very significant change in the electoral order. There are international recommendations (which are expressed to the state of Latvia and are internationally recognised organisations) that such amendments, which significantly change the electoral order, do not be made one year before the elections. This proposal... If you support it - this proposal or the next one - I will also vote in favour of the draft law as a whole. If it is not supported, I will not remove my signature from the amendments that have already been made... The President of Latvia is invited not to announce these amendments for two months and collect... to make a poll on the referendum on the people. So, my fellow Members, I ask you to think about what you are doing - the upheaval of power in a way. I can remind you once again that I think these amendments have been designed solely on the basis of party ratings, and that... the huge pile of lies accompanying these amendments... How can... who else has the question of whether or not these amendments are related to the dismissal of Riga City Council? Is there at least one person who thinks that this is not really the case? Daniel Pavilut certainly is. He certainly felt that these amendments were systemic and would put some order in order... I think that, so that it really is and indeed there is no doubt that these amendments are not prepared solely for the dismissal of the Riga City Council, this proposal is in place. It intends to extend this procedure to the new municipalities, follow all international recommendations that have been made to the state of Latvia, and does not cause any accusations from the opposition to the leaders of this draft law. I think it's enough to lie and we need to talk things openly. I would not be blaming you if you said openly that you prepared these amendments only because you want to elect Riga City Council for five years. You have good ratings - let's go, let's go, let's wish for five years! I think it's... its approach is not correct. What you have done today with regard to including this draft law in the Saeima sitting - in fact you are threatening this draft law yourself... the entry into force of the law. And I do not think that this is good legislative practice. I hope that you are familiar with the letter addressed to you by the President of Latvia, in which he calls on you to think about normal, correct, good legislative practices and what lies behind those words.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U64	Name to Member Daniel Pavilut.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U65	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Colleagues! When it comes to the proposal by Member Valaiņš and when the amendments proposed by the draft laws should come into force, I am pleased that we are now discussing, after a long, ambitious discussion within the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, essentially on procedural issues and not on substance. But for every case, I will remind you what the content was, the substance and the need for these draft laws were offered. What, then, is Valainis proposing to postpone? So, delay implementation. Not to reject the implementation as a whole, but to postpone implementation. So this is about how emergency elections are held and what practical consequences are there in the rare cases when municipal council has been dismissed in the Republic of Latvia and emergency elections are required. I would remind you that currently the law provides that if such elections were less than 15 months before the current municipal elections, such elections are not held at all and the functions and powers of the council are exercised by appointed administrators throughout this period. Is this desirable or not a desirable situation? All Members have had the opportunity to speak, they have had the opportunity to decide, they will have the opportunity today to decide at final reading on these draft laws. We, the draft lawmakers, felt that it was not desirable to change this situation. Colleagues! If the members of the opposition want to extort, hear something concrete, they like a reply from the draft lawmakers, I respect that, but allow them literally not to listen to such a request. For my part, I would like to motivate those reasons why such a draft law has been tabled. The first is the consideration of democracy, which we have spoken about. A more democratic situation, the fact that the leaders of the people in the local council are elected for a longer period before the elections. And the other as a utility consideration. This is the merger of the terms of the councils in the event that less than half of the time is left and the council in such an emergency situation is dismissed by a special procedure. ( Internouncing call.) Finally. Today I invite you to bring clarity to Latvian society, Latvian citizens, by adopting these draft laws on the order in which the next extraordinary elections of Riga City Council would be held - it seems much less inevitable. Since this process is also parallel to the Saeima... it is a different, separate, process. But I think none of us, being in a common sense, will deny that Riga is a municipality, so the decisions that we are discussing here today regarding the electoral system of municipalities would also affect the municipality of Riga. Thus, at this moment, when the parallel process here in the Saeima discusses the dismissal of the Riga City Council, based on repeated violations and the inability to exercise autonomous functions - in this situation, we as legislator have the responsibility to clearly define the rules of the game - how and when and how, and for how long, the extraordinary elections of the Riga City Council will take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U66	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U67	You know what? We also need to be able to win. You must be able to win, to respect you and to go into history as a great achievement. And why am I saying that? I will name two or three examples that are comparable to today's situation here in the Saeima, from sports life. And one example is Sochi Olympics. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Paviluts: "Are we going to talk about the proposal?" ) This is about the proposal. And about the procedure, Mr. Pavilut. This example is linked to the fact that... I think that our Skeletonists remember that painful situation, or the Bobsleigh supporters remember the conditions under which Russia won by doping, and how all this ended in the final. Because the use of doping is a non-compliance with the procedure... do not take account of the procedure. Or another example of sport. We had a barrier runner, Olijar, caught in the use of doping and then justified because the procedure was not followed. Because the procedure was not followed. And the result in the legal state is what? That the procedure must be followed. Mr Pavilut, if you allow me to talk about democracy here, then there is no democratic country in which the procedure would not be taken into account. I understand that you are not a lawyer, I understand that you have gambling sponsors. I understand that you want Mr Staķis to be the mayor of Riga, but the victory is more important, because otherwise all of you, coalition, you, the gambling party, you, those who are the co-runners of the New Unity, will have the same finals as the Russian Olympics, who are excluded from the big sporting life for four years. And I am sure that, in our country, the people will also exclude you from this great political life, seeing that the "uncompromising rule of law" means to violate anything: to break the roll of order of the Saeima, to violate the procedure that is being conducted in the Saeima, to ignore what has been written in the Commission. In principle, its commissions can also not be called at all. For what? Why do you do this? Maybe we just need to do so in the future that Ināra Mūrniece goes on the step of the Saeima and says: “It will be like this because we were told, I don’t know, Raivis Dzintars, Daniels Pavluts, Juta Strike... I got it, I read it. That's it!” What are we coming here to do, vote? What is the purpose of this process? Imagine the situation. What to follow the process if the Saeima sitting on the sick page... Like a sick person. Like a sick person. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Give your mouth!” ) And...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U68	Mr. Gobzem! Look at your opponent's state of health... Mr Gobzem, you have a microphone shutdown right now. ( Interface: ‘ That’s it! ’) ) I am rebutting to you the reference to the health status of my opponent, which, according to the Code of Conduct of Members of the Saeima, is not acceptable. ( The utterances: “Free! ”) “Go away!” ) Keep going!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U69	What I want to say to you (Dep. S. Riekstins: “Stop away!” )... What I want to say to you is that the procedure in the Saeima is essential. And the fact that you yell here at me does not change the situation that your “uncompromising justice” is to ignore nothing! Sandis Riekstins with his secondary education can go and learn this education. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “You can lower your highest law in the pot!” ) That's it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U70	Colleagues, calm down! Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U71	Dear colleagues, I... My main aim is also to thank Mr Pavļuta for finally saying that all this is being done in relation to Riga. That's a lot. Because it was previously denied: no, it is because of the fact that the municipalities in general have to regulate legislation, not only in Riga. Colleagues! I would like to thank you, coalition, really for this... about this lesson for all of us. Because in your fight against those you call 'cremlines', some 'East' and so on, putting yourself as such Western values, defenders of the rule of law and so on... What we will see when this release of the Riga City Council comes to an end - we will see that you will probably achieve this goal by illegal methods. And what's going to happen then, the fact that, at the end of these days or at the end of these days, you say... Okay, this Riga City Council will be dissolved, the next one will be elected for six, seven, eight years or... How do you decide there... But everyone will see or ask themselves a question - whether those who have achieved this goal - have so desired people who, in your opinion, do not abide by the law... He has repeatedly violated laws or so-called procedures, which he has spoken of here in such a disdainous way... Who are they? Who are they? Or... What is more important - the way or the destination? Are any methods good to reach the desired destination? Thank you for your... including us... for this really lesson, that it should not be possible to do so. You can't! Because then we'll see... you look in the mirror... You'll see who's going to be there. There won't be any rule of law there! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U72	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U73	Hello, honorable Bureau! Hello, dear colleagues! I understand, of course, that you may also have a great surprise to see me here today. But... I would also now like to apologise to the viewers who are watching and to my colleagues. I don't have a suit in my back right now because I just don't have it anymore, they're burned. ( From the group underscored: “The poor one! ” ) But when it comes to this proposal - my colleagues at the hospital, I... Well, I felt terrible like... Whereas I'm watching events from the edge that you can actually affect... and you have the rare chance that you are elected from among Latvians and can (Dep. Mr Gobzems: "On the proposal, Member of the Neighbourhood, on the proposal!" )... that you can make an impression... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “What do you think?” ) Dear colleagues! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Gobzems: “On the proposal, not on the hospital!” ) Dear colleagues! If we look... that the Riga City Council or, let's accept another municipality's dominion, we release... and it is about five years in this case, or let's say four years, as is also stipulated in the law, then I really don't understand logic. Who wants it? Well, maybe one candidate... I'm about to understand who would like, but... who else would like to start for one year on the capital city's thought without knowing about it... that you can't start... start working properly... This council must be released. And I'm going to come and vote against this idea with burnt hands, my colleagues. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Poor!” ) With my nose, I will press that button if I need to. That'll be it! But, dear colleagues, this is about... It's about the fact that there's... that period has been extended, yes, it has been extended. But who in the end wins more - citizens? Or, let's say... Whereas Mr. Valaiņš says that he has a game here all the time, a game, a game, a game... some bets are being placed. There's no game, Mr. Valaiņš! There's life here! Real life! Real people live in this city. Real, living people - with personal numbers, declared addresses! There's no game here! I therefore call on my fellow Members to support what has been decided in the Commission. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U74	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U75	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, This proposal is essentially about not changing the rules of the game. Imagine why the Riga City Council coalition was the longest time of Latvia's independence! However, Riga voters three times chose the path embodied by the chairman of our council, Nils Ušakovs. ( Interface: “Bedes on the streets of Riga! ” ) Colleagues! The municipality of the capital... Provides public transport free tickets for pensioners and pupils (Interface: “Demolition bridges and buildings!” ), free school lunch, implemented municipal construction program. What did you do in your presence at the Riga City Council? Lucer! ( Insight: “Where did Ushakov remain?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “) Since 2017, SASKA’S political opponents in the Riga City Council have consistently and unsuccessfully tried to demolish the most popular chairman of the capital. They never managed to beat us in a fair fight, so they invented a secret way. Their minister, Puce, a former thinker... unsuccessful, first deprived the head of the municipality of power (Interface: “Rightly did!” ), but now released the entire Riga City Council. It is an illegal and shameful step for Latvia. The whole of Europe will now see a violation of the European Charter of Local Authorities in our country. The President of Parliament took the floor yesterday at a meeting with Latvia's ambassadors abroad. Mrs Mūrniece noted the enormous progress our country made almost 30 years after the restoration of independence. In this respect, I would like to remind you that Riga Municipality was elected for the first time 30 years ago on an alternative basis. In these elections, the People's Front had won, although even Soviet troops took part in the vote. However, Riga Municipality worked for the four years planned for it. Even after independence, Members elected from the Interfront were preserved there. Did the fathers of the capital fear less of political opponents than they were today? I can identify the serious democratic regression shown today by the majority of the coalition. ( Inspiration: “Did you write a speech in the Embassy? ” ) The dismissal of the Riga City Council, a democratically elected council, will not affect the confidence of Latvian citizens in their state institutions, and most of the Riga residents will soon be voted again in the Riga City Council elections for the SASCAN. And we all sign for 13. The release of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U76	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U77	I look at what is going to be put in that fight against it... for the promised land - elections to the Riga City Council... not in the Riga City Council... everything: Saeima order rolls, laws, Constitutions, well, completely all the foundations of a democratic state, anything. I'm very brief, but, well... Mārtiņš Bondars certainly knows better how a former basketball player has their term, if any. There's a basketball situation where when you're in an attack, you're putting so much force on the move that you don't end up throwing. And that's exactly what you can see now. You are investing so much in achieving these extraordinary elections for five and a half years that it is absolutely clear that you will lose them. How I stand here! (Laughter) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U78	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U79	Hello, colleagues! With this I would like to say that what is happening at the moment is nothing other than legal nihilism. It is an absolute permissiveness, which I personally associate with with only two words: “totalitarianism” and “dicture”. Even the fact that we are currently discussing such a serious and vital issue for Latvia... with a bow in the office and with a show of some attendees... with the presence of some participants... You know, I just don't have words. I have already spoken on these issues and have set out the basic arguments. I think that all those Members who are really interested in studying this problem in depth and who are really interested in the development of democracy in our country have been doing this for a long time. But I repeat: what is happening at the moment is that it is the permissiveness of the majority of Parliament, it is a parliamentary dictatorship. And I'm not going to go down here today. The last thing I want to say today: I wish Artus's health and you a happy Christmas! “ Thank you! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U80	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U81	Dear colleagues! In this whole madness, which Didzis Schmidt has already said, that everything is ignored, there is also some happy news. And finally, in that vote... you have now voted here that this issue must be looked at... It appears very openly that the members of the CPV LV Group - Mr. Neighbours and Mr Blumberg - are members of the UKP Group. It's not... Well, there is no secret since the first government negotiations, where Mr. Neighbours is the first to take a stand against the JPV LV. ( Subtitle: “Neighbourhood created a KPV! ” ) And then I would call. I am very happy about the fact that the political groups are coming out of the way. ... for the sowing of the fraction. Thank you to my former colleagues from KPV LV. And I call on you to go further and to exclude both Artus and Aldi Blumberg from the CPV LV Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U82	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U83	Before Riekstins begins to run like an orangutan again, I have to be able to say the following thing. You understand, it is also beneficial for me to dismiss a thought that there are no political organizations that I represent, because it is clear that the extraordinary elections in the Riga Council would win the political organisation that I represent. There is no doubt at all about this. But here is the question of the procedure, and the procedure, even if I have favourable extraordinary elections to the Riga Council, is important in the legal state. And I would ask Mr. Neighbours not to come and feel sorry about what he has... What's the situation... that he will vote, but explain to his constituents why he will vote against the party he is chairing! How has he achieved a situation where he will vote not as the party he represents, in which he is the leader?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. ( Internouncing call.) Does this mean that the Neighbours are a member of the JCPOA? And according to its love for Utah, it is quite clear that Neighbours has long been a member of the JCPOA. ( Internouncing call.) That's one. And the second question in this case is... You shouldn't have been worried, dear friends, my coalition opponents! You don't have to call people here... You're afraid you're not going to have enough votes. But I will also vote in favour of the dismissal of that council. What are you worried about? You'll have enough votes! ( Internouncing call.) Just... only the procedure you need to follow. That's... The fact that Jutta Strike doesn't care if the rule of law... we know it for at least 15 years - at least 15 years! It's just... Just guns and handcuffs, it's the only one. That's what it's thinking in that direction. But the rule of law procedure is a priority. It distinguishes the banana republic from a high-democratic republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U84	The name to Member Boris Cilevič. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U85	Dear colleagues, I am ashamed of what is happening in the Saeima today. You are talking about the prestige of the country. And what do you do to yourself? You cannot agree with each other. At the last moment you figured out something and try to get it all through, completely ignoring both the Order Roll and... I am not talking about ethical standards. Mr. Pavilut! You are undoubtedly a very wise man (I have great respect for you!) , but therefore should not consider all the other people as silly. Do you really think that other Members, journalists, voters do not understand what is happening here today? Mr. Pavilut! Do you really think that there is at least one person in this hall who really believes that you want to release the Riga thought of the problem of dumping waste? Do you think there are at least a few people outside this hall who believe that there are problems with dumping, and therefore you want to dismiss the Riga City Council? The shippers have no problem with the disposal of their waste. I have been a Rigaman for more than 50 years, and these problems only exist on paper. And its problems were created by Mr. Puce to find some excuse for releasing the Riga City Council. People are not blind! Before the elections you very much wanted to undermine power in the Riga City Council. You lost. Then you started looking for ways to achieve this. You kept the mayor of Riga in the hope that the coalition will collapse right away and the power will fall into your hands right away. ( Interface: “On the proposal! ” ) Failed. The coalition has changed, but yet Riga City Council works and performs its duties. And now you can't wait until the next elections, it is imperative that you do it right away... I feel with you, Mr Pavilut. That's... There have already been various analogys with sport. You lost in the square, and now you want to win in the wardrobe. Well, let's go! But don't think that with that, you're going to deceive some people, except your party members and your supporters. Because what you're dealing with is a pure kind of charting. Mrs. Steel! For several years you have taught us what good administration is, and indeed you have done a lot to improve the administration system in Latvia. And today you offer to give back... hand over the draft law, not to the commission to which the draft law is subject, but to the commission where you are convinced that there will be a majority in the coalition. Do you not think that you yourself have undermined what you have invested in strengthening the good administration of Latvia? Colleagues, I understand that you live in your narrow world - such a political elite, coalition - you are the rulers of the world, now your hands everywhere. Why, though, are you convinced that people do not see it? The world is much wider, and you will not always be rulers of the world, because you will have to answer questions - people, voters and your own conscience. And I very much hope that you will find some ethical strength to change this behaviour. Indeed, let's think of Parliament's prestige and the country's prestige! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U86	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U87	You forgive me, my colleagues, I will not talk about the dismissal of Riga City Council. That's what I'm talking about. But some things I'd like to say. First. If this energy, with which Pavluta-Puce tandems is trying to solve these things... If this energy were dedicated to waste management, there would be no waste in Latvia at all. I think that Mr Pavļuta's statements on democracy, on the strengthening of democracy, are very funny today, because none of the proposals strengthens democracy. And today its debate on the procedure was very important not because - not because of the procedure - but because the Commission had a three-day discussion on these two draft laws. A serious discussion with serious proposals that indeed much can be changed in this area, but can't just mix it all in one quail. And this is already a procedural issue. This is extremely important: to separate what needs to be done today and to concentrate efforts to improve the system as a whole, taking not only today's steps but also several steps forward. I am not talking about the reputation of the state of Latvia, which we are wrestling with every... Unfortunately, with almost every draft law adopted. Unfortunately, that is what is happening. In this case, the offer... The commission included different offers and different types of solutions. And just because we couldn't agree on what's going on - that's why the commission also made this decision... by the way, the decision not to refer the matter to the Saeima and not to support the proposed proposals. Mr Valaiņš' initiative to extend the date of entry into force, on which we are now talking, is justified. Because that's the time when we can seriously hold back this ongoing discussion of democracy - the true democracy! - Upgrading... rather than achieving immediate solutions that can and may not give effect. No one can say today, everyone will be the winner of Pirre or anyone else, or we will act at all, as the song sings: “John Brown fell in his battlefield on his victories.” I call for support for Valaiņa's proposal. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U88	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U89	Yes, thank you, colleagues, for all those who have applied in the debate, talked about the proposal and about everything else. Mr. Pavilut, well, I already have that accusation for you and for your whole party... and, unfortunately, also to the people of respect... must stand and lie that this is not related to the dismissal of Riga City Council. Well, that's... I think there is no doubt that this is related to the dismissal of Riga City Council. And if that is the case, and if you wanted to incorporate such an idea... There were other solutions as well, and that would be fair: to say and to incorporate these solutions into the dismissal law itself, and not to do so today with the deception of yourself and society that you are currently doing. You didn't say that to the end when you were on the platform. Mr. Neighbours had a lot of trouble with his life. God’s Way of Life — Depp. A. Neighbours: “I’m fine! It's okay!” ), yes, but you also in a way confirmed that this is about the dismissal of Riga City Council, so you came here. And these are all interrelated draft laws. And we all understand it, except for “Development/About!” They are the only ones who do not understand, and they are the only ones that are different... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa: “Artus also doesn’t understand!” ) different charts. And it's really sad that all these proposals go through schemes. Well, let's say, Mrs. Steels yesterday... said it would be fine if I went... to go through the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission because, see, related to the budgetary issue. Well, that's... Well, it is clear to everyone that the only reason why, through the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, is... Well, my fellow Members, is that just because one Member is not in the Saeima right now, and that's it? And through there you can skip through... It would be in the Sports Sub-Commission that situation would pass through the Sports Sub-Commission or the Latgale Sub-Commission - what difference! I can go through as far as I want! ( The utterance: “Time! ”) ) But, colleagues, this draft law literally...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U90	Mr Valaiņš, the debate is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U91	Colleagues, 30 seconds, 30 seconds!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U92	That's... Well, let's be right against each other!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U93	Thirty seconds, colleagues! ( Interface: “The procedure has to be followed! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U94	Let us be right against one another!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U95	It's an important thing! ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U96	Mr. Valains, please! Let's be right! The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U97	Just climb up in the name of the truth... I don't like to be offended... that "Development/About!" I don't understand anything or I think I don't understand something. In my opinion, Development/About! best understand everything in this Chamber, but not those with them in the coalition (Laughter) , who think that “Development / About!” the plan is to start in Riga and create some coalition coalition in Riga. ‘ Development/About!’ the plan is to fill a place that may not be natural. And that's the plan. And that's what you're voting for, friends! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U98	Debate (Interfaces: Closed!) )... The debate is closed. Colleagues, there is an opportunity to apply for a debate in good time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzems: “Ivar, apply for a procedure!” ( ) What is to be added on behalf of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U99	I can remind you that this proposal by Mr Valaiņš was discussed, debated and not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U100	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U101	6. is a proposal from the Group's CPV LV, which was examined and not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U102	Members want to have a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U103	Well, colleagues, I'll keep it. The proposal is already the same. The draft law is the same. And I don't know - stupidity or wisdom - what you've done in this bill... Concealed, unknowing, but precisely “Development/About!” has prepared this bill so that... If so far it has not been possible, then it will now be possible for Members of other councils to test their luck peacefully in an extraordinary election. Perhaps the Chairman of Ventspils Council will also be able. (Applause) With this draft Development/About! has arranged things, let's say so that it can do so legibly. This could not have happened so far. So, well, I am calling for support for the CPV Group's proposal. All the factions... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “What about the ZZS? Are you serious?’ ) to support this proposal by the whole group... And actually a little sad... It's sad about the KPV LV fraction... Really talented Members... almost everyone. ( Internouncing call.) And... other more talented, others may not be as talented, but in this case, well, it shows your role in the coalition. I think you have really boldly begun, but unfortunately these two gentlemen from your own group have made a decision for you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U104	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U105	Colleagues, I will talk about things that have not yet been talked about - precisely from the point of view of the rule of law. I understand that the rule of law of coalitions does not bother and is not important to it, but I think it will be important for the Constitutional Court, who will see this law. I'd like to focus... a couple of aspects that are not discussed or specifically defaulted. Have you read the draft law that it contains? It is very clear there that these elections are taking place... they are direct, equal, covered and proportionate. If you do not support this proposal now, then this draft law does not fulfil these conditions. In particular, the elections will no longer be equal to all citizens. There will be citizens who will be able to vote twice in this election, and there will be citizens who will only be able to vote once. Equality no longer works. You have been told very clearly by the Central Electoral Commission: if now... such elections will take place immediately; they cannot prevent this situation. They are not ready for this. This means that the law is being violated. You offer now... Well, it's no longer a reproach for you, because it's no longer a reproach for you that you offer to violate the law, not to abide by the law. That is what you are doing now if you do not support this proposal. This proposal could save it. Another point is why this principle is being violated. On the one hand, that is, from the elections... on the voter side, on the other... And... of those who want to participate in these elections, who have legitimately relied on the law that is going to have these elections in 2021... and they will not now be able to participate; they will not be prepared if they preach immediately. It also violates their legal rights. It also undermines democracy. So right... The rule of law and democracy are being undermined by the solution you are offering. And that's the basis, I think, a very large, serious reason why such a law can be challenged and your goal will not be fulfilled. That's why it's so important to keep... to support this amendment. Otherwise, it happens that you are now dealing with this draft electoral law just like ports. You give a clear symbol, clear, beautiful... a fine definition that ports cannot be privatised, but then further develop a draft law so that these ports can be privatised. And here is exactly the same story. You claim one thing that the elections will be equal, and at the same time you make the draft law so that the elections will not be equal. Therefore, colleagues, I call: if you really really care about the rule of law, democracy... Well, maybe suddenly care about Christmas if, then, such an amendment should be supported. And I hope that the Group of the KPV LV will also support its proposal because it is justified and indeed necessary if we really still have justice and democracy in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U106	Dear colleagues, A submission has been received before we proceed to the debate. Members Strīķe, Dzintars, Pavļuts, Adamovich and Blumberg are asking to continue the sitting of the Saeima on December 19, without interruption in the examination of draft laws “Amendment to the Law on Elections of City Council and District Council of the Republic” (No. 512/Lp13) and draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Municipalities”” (No. 516/Lp13), and after the examination of these draft laws, declare a one-hour break. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Do Members have objections? ( Interfaces: “Yes, yes! ” ) There are objections. Please call me! Let us vote for an hour to be announced (Interface: “Two years!” ) Long break after examination of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Elections of City Council and District Council of the Republic” and the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Municipalities”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! ( Subtotal: “Why? ”) ) - 59, against - 33, abstain - not. Decision adopted. So let's keep the Saeima sitting until both draft laws are examined. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U107	This draft law and these proposals are with a very significant vote. And the vote is that the leader of the KPV LV party or Kapi LV party, will vote against his party. This has not been the case, at all, that a leader of his party in a proposal is voting against the interests of his party. By this I would like to say that it is very interesting whether KPV LV has not yet understood what the coalition is doing to them throughout this year? Is there really no self - respect for this organization? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Kursīte-Pakule: “Aldi, but you also voted against your party!” ) And one more thing. When we talked about parliament... and also on the dismissal of the Riga City Council or the elections of the Riga City Council... and, if this situation had been the case a year ago, in the summer, and if someone told me that Arvil Asheraden or Edgars Rinkēvičs would be the ones who will be the most encircled and the closest to Artus Village, it would seem to me that it is simply impossible. This vote is, in fact, not a vote on the dismissal of the Council; it is a vote on the imaginary seizure of power for five or six years... and later, as long as you want. If this question were just about the dismissal of the council, then I think there could actually be no such discussion. But this is a question of a bill that is contrary to democracy enshrined in the Constitution. The democracy enshrined in the Constitution provides for a four-year electoral cycle. Four years! ( Internouncing call.) And Mr. Pavļuta, who has musical education, not legal education, I have to explain. ( Internouncing call.) I must make it clear that, in principle, if we get to know the laws, then there cannot be the situation in Russia where Vladimir Putin also extends his own term as long as he wishes. And you can do it to me, Mr Pavilut, not to hesitate neither the Constitution nor the Rule of Procedure, because it has long been clear to me that you are not interested in these books. And today's votes, including those on this proposal, are complete proof of this. Complete proof! And that, Mr. Pavļuta, why you need such a Riga City Council is quite simple to answer. It's gambling! Gambling that you want to keep both in Riga and throughout Latvia. Because if you were against gambling, you would have been voting here a long time ago. Now you have a chance at least in theory... that you want gambling to continue to be, because it wants your sponsors. Your party sponsors. And that's why you're ready to break the parliamentary roll, the Constitution, the common sense... That's what you're doing. And I would like to add to Mr Dolgopolova by saying that I am very sorry that you, "development/for!" That seems to make itself a company... a party that takes care of... Why don't you fight that energy for medicine? Mr Medical Skride, why are you fighting with such energy for an undemocratic election process? It's your real face! And that's what you were doing today. I call for a 'no' vote, and I call on the CPV LV to draw conclusions on how the organisation would act if its leader voted against the party's interests - what is happening today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U108	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U109	Dear colleagues, So we are in a situation where the coalition believes that the majority is above everything. And it's your belief that you already need only 52 or 51 votes, so that you don't listen to any objections from the Legal Bureau or other lawyers and also the state... For example, in the objections of the National Chancellery... If we talk more about other draft laws... You believe that on your side is only right because you have one or two of the three excess votes that have already come to this end today. But, of course, you will not be able to work for a long time, because there are only a few voices on your side, but we have common sense on our side, there is the rule of law on our side, no matter how ridiculous this name may be for you, but on our side it is still alive and we very respect the rule of law. What I also wanted to add is that, with this move, as if saving public funds - which is really a very funny thing, given that you have just put your pockets full of party financing law on your own - you are currently violating the right of voters to this draft law. You are violating the electoral rights in the sense that you are denying voters every four years... Not uncommon... select representatives of the municipality at least every four years. With this bill, you will deny it. So there will be voters who will be forced to live with those Members... Perhaps with those Members who do not like you at all - that may be the case. They will be forced to live with them for five and a half years. And if they want to change something, it means that there will have to be some extraordinary elections again, and that is not the case at all. We will have to go back to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, and we need to have this extremely complicated procedure. But you're offended right now... with this bill... I understand that you will roll it further and further - until the President of Latvia. But you've violated not only the right to participate... the right of someone to take part in municipal elections (also mentioned by my colleagues), but you have violated, in my opinion, the most important point of the fact that voters... For the voters to you in principle... is to be warned because you just want to put this new name on them and make them live with it for as long as you want, and then you really will meet and re-elected for eight, 10, 15 years, I don't know what you want. You already have 52 pillars, but it won't be long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U110	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U111	How long it will be... Is that so? I think it's still going to be decided... Year, five, five and a half years... But what is the difference between the year and five and a half years? In my opinion, its main desire to achieve a five-and-a-half-year term is such an inevitable, customary desire that the political parties have, and its taste is already felt in the Saeima's elections, that it can simply promise blue miracles and come to power. And the difference is that if the elections were for a year, no one could afford to promise blue miracles. No one! If it's for five years, then I think in the coming months everyone will experience the fall of the skyman from heaven that doesn't seem like a little! Because politicians, I think, in the light of previous experience, that you can promise anything, triple everything possible, "3 × 500", wages, more... Well, whatever can be... Then also, the sky-scrapers, parks will probably rise in Riga... skyscrapers on the roof of those parks will be... and that's not going to happen! And that's going to be all five years! And there will be all green food in kindergartens... And kindergartens... and everything will be! And that is what awaits the adoption of these amendments, unfortunately, of all Latvian society, especially Rigans.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U112	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U113	Dear President, Honourable Members! Mr. Zarins, who provoked me to come and speak! I understand that the main thing, as Mr Zarins said, is that there are doubts that ports could be privatised, not that the municipalities are working badly, or that any changes should be introduced quickly, let us say. And then I got a question right away. Of course, I also do not support the privatisation of these ports, but... What's worse, Mr. Zarin? But if there is a port under the responsibility of the State and the municipality, one private owner uses (Interface: “another proposal!” )... it is about this “On the proposal!” ) and one or two of the ministries. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa: “Other law!” ) So do we need such municipalities that allow them to do so? But is it done, as the proposal said here, for some year or two? So what's worse? What is worse - if we change the municipality, or if the practice continues, which is also in the port of Riga? It's not privatised... How many relatives, wife, friend... I understand that, of course, a privatised institution will work much worse and the local authorities' properties are working excellently. What horror would have been privatised, for example, “Riga traffic”! But they already work as a private company now. It is formally a municipal enterprise (Dep. I. Zarins: “No need to talk about the proposal? What's going on?' ), but money already goes to all kinds of consultants, goes to various Riga City Council... Local government friends, relatives, and everyone... everything else. So we want to continue in this way? It was mentioned here that we have a great company... Let's say the same Latvenergo, which is a strategic company and buys turbines in Russia. And now it's a whirlwind (interfaces.) that there are some sanctions. It's a municipality... the same practice is in the municipality, the same practice we have in state enterprises. Maybe it's better, though, not to be afraid of what Mr. Zarins says here. I understand that every Social Democratic (Minimum: “He is not talking about the proposal!” ) that drives with a expensive jeep... that he is rising up and lying down with a terrible thought: “What will happen to the local authorities that I manage, where my friends and relatives work? Will they all miss them, or will they trench them? That's why we should postpone... “ That’s why I call for this practice to be changed and changed. Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “What is this about?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U114	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. He said: “He spoke about something else! Madam President," ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U115	On this proposal and on the rule of law, you remember last week's sitting of the Saeima, when Daniel Pavlut kneeled in front of Member Eric Pucen, remembering that moment? Daniel Pavlut said that he did not try to buy Eric Pucen at that time. I'm only going down when a man falls in front of another man's knees. And... and... and... This is an example of an understanding of the rule of law, Daniel Pavlut. The rule of law in your sense is either to buy voices, or to negotiate something in the Saeima hall or behind the Saeima hall door, or something... to narrow something, or to place in ports a friend of your party member Newup, for example. That is your rule of law, and you are currently doing the same rule of law with regard to the elections to the Council. Because the dispute is now only about the deadline for the elections to the Council, whether the extraordinary elections to the Council will be for one and a half years, or whether the extraordinary elections will be for an undemocratic 5.5 years. When you were an economic minister and issued its OIC permits... you now say that you will cancel the OIC. Where have you abolished it? That is also a question of the rule of law: to promise and not to do so. Vote for medical salaries and fail, and then say, “We were not responsible there.” But then maybe finally start to be responsible! Your elected President of State said that you should have Members who act legally and adopt quality laws, and this will be a test for Egil Levit, whether he is a defender of the rule of law in words or deeds. Will Egil Levit defend the rule of law when he has to declare this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U116	I closed the debate. For the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U117	In the Commission, the proposal was not supported. ( Insects: “There is no commission in the name of the commission! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U118	The Commission has expressed its views and the conclusion is that the Commission does not support the proposal. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Gobzem: “Do not agree, not support!” ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of 6. - the proposal submitted by the Group's CPV LV! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U119	Yeah. The draft law was debated by the Commission. The vote divided 6 against 6 and the Commission did not support the said draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U120	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Elections of City Council and District Council of the Republic” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to Law “On Municipalities”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission – Member Dace Bluķe.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U121	Draft law “Amendment to Law “On Local Government””. The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government reviewed it at the meeting of the Commission on 18 December. All the proposals were examined and all voted on. 1. - a proposal submitted by a political group. Not supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U122	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the Group's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U123	2. - a proposal submitted by a political group. Not supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U124	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the Group's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 20, it's 60, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U125	3. - the Group's proposal. The Commission was not supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U126	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the Group's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U127	4. - the Group's proposal. The Commission was not supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U128	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the Group's proposal! Please vote mode! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Papule: “Speak about the proposal!” ) Please see the result. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ( Milestones.) The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U129	5. - Group agreement proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U130	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U131	Colleagues! I will talk about the Group's proposal for consensus, because the next one is mine, which is exactly the same. If you do not support the Group's proposal, then I will not be able to vote, so I will talk about the Group's proposal for consensus. Purpose and nature of the proposal I understand that this bill is... is not related to elections of Riga City Council, but to urgent actions to be taken to improve the municipal system as such. And I think this is one of those things. We could improve and make more transparent the progress of administrative territorial reform and already add that the municipality can carry out population surveys and make some decisions based on them, clearly defining it. Because the law now contains, for example... For example, at the moment we can have a population survey in certain parishes... Olaine... the municipality is divided... at the level of the parish... attached to one or the other... I know that proposals of this type have also been tabled in this bill for second reading... Administratively territorial reform of the law... to second reading. There also offers not only local government as a cluster, but also parishes, separate parishes, to add one territory or another territory. I think if we would support such a proposal that we could make these surveys on the whole territory as such, we would avoid... mainly from the risks of constancy. We would have full information about what people in the local community think and how they think... more broadly than is currently the case. At present, this information has been shredded. There are the data that have been submitted here. At least for me, getting to know them... Of course, there are also those where it is clear... But if this order were to be determined by law, and if a whole municipality is added... If, for example, Jelgava Municipality and Ozolnieki are merged, then it is mandatory to carry out a survey in Jelgava Municipality and Ozolnieki on the modification of these areas. And the whole Saeima could get acquainted with this decision. Difficult subjects. I understand that there will probably be no support, but I thought it was my duty to come and tell, and to invite you to support. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U132	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U133	This proposal is not supported by the Commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele–Lunova: “It’s not in the name of the commission!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U134	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - the proposal tabled by the Group by consensus! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 30, 60, abstains. - No. The proposal is not supported. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U135	6. - an amendment tabled by Member Viktoras Valaiņa. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U136	There is no vote either.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U137	7. - a proposal from Member Regina Lochmeles-Lunova. There is no support in the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U138	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Mrs Regina Ločmeles-Lunova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 23, 60, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U139	8 / 8 - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U140	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U141	Dear colleagues, In this proposal, we are talking about the reasons for the dismissal of the Council. I propose that these reasons be limited to specific cases... cases such as violation of the Satversme and violation of court decisions. Because what we see today at the Saeima Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, when we talk about the case of the dismissal of Riga City Council, which was initiated on the basis of VARAM's opinion that the Council has violated the law... We have found that it is very difficult to defend the fact and ground of the violation of these laws by those who encourage it. And here we have actually come to a place that is not even even, in principle, regulated, because by nature, the violation of the law should be recorded by court. However, since there is no judicial intervention in this dispute at any time in this case and it is only a matter of legal interpretation on the one hand, on the one hand, the Riga City Council and on the other, then, in principle, the Saeima must now assume the role of a judge, which absolutely does not correspond to the work profile of the Saeima. The Saeima is therefore forced to make a political decision, which, of course, is not right from the point of view of democracy. In that case, the Saeima, as an elected institution of certain other individuals, will decide on the institution elected by other voters, and as a result of the combination and proportions of different political forces, this may become a political case. Therefore, given that compared to the work of the Saeima, which also in principle detect violations of the law (and several lawyers have spoken about it, which admits that the Saeima, for example when voting on the state budget for 2020, has violated the law on medical salaries adopted by itself), there is no supreme institution in this case, except, of course, the President of Latvia, which could initiate the procedure for dismissal of the Saeima. But fortunately, the Saeima and the big... The largest leader is, therefore, the Saeima voters who have already initiated the dismissal procedure. But unfortunately, the Council is in a much worse position in this case in the sense that it cannot be decided by its voters but only by another political person, who in this case is the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. And that would also be unfair from the point of view of democracy. Therefore (in particular, given that at the moment the Saeima itself, the parliament, which will decide on the dismissal of the council and on the justification of the dismissal of the council from the perspective of the law and which itself is very recently in the mind and in the eyes of many lawyers has violated the law), it is not even ethically to allow such a situation that someone who cannot throw the first stone yet throws the first stone. That is why I, honourable colleagues, urge you to really narrow these reasons... the reasons for dismissal, since the interpretation of the infringement or non-infringement is a very complicated procedure in this case, especially in view of the fact that at present a whole council, a whole elected body is accused of an infringement of the law, rather than a single Member who has specifically violated, for example, an administrative law or any other law that may be established by a court. But there is, of course, a very difficult situation. Therefore, so that there are no such situations in the future - I hope, of course, that we will also be able to resolve this situation by way of law - so that there are no longer such situations, I call on you to support my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U142	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U143	Mrs. Strike, if you and Mr. Riekstins have not been able to talk today, maybe get out of the Saeima hall so that there is order here, not just standing and shameful to Parliament! And I call once again, Mrs Mūrniece, as in a democratic country, look at how things are going in America! If there's no order in the Saeima, they're smashing with that hammer even when the opposition speaks, and not only when the position speaks. Look who... A sense of strip always... I am sorry, my ass is against the Bureau. Always! Always! And they're talking all the time! She's not interested in that process. Daniel Pavlut (this is already seen in Facebook), for example, looks at NBA basketball on the computer while we decide on the idea. He's already watched all the games! (Laughter) It's all right! Today, in the feisbuck... Get in my profile at night, you'll see it all! ( Milestones.) I'm sorry, you're acting here as a democratic state or a legal state... not even the banana republic, I'm sorry! Some third-class country! What the order in Parliament is here! What, then, should we do? We are talking about a serious democratic process - whether it is limited or not. By the way, we are talking in a situation where the same Juta Strike has signed that she needs a longer, without interruption, sitting. She can't withstand... She signs the need for longer, but at the same time she cannot withstand the length of the sitting. She cannot listen to the whole debate. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Butāns: “What does this mean?” ; dep. J. Salnieks: “On the proposal!” ) And this is about the proposal: that is your whole understanding of the rule of law! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Asheraden’s intermediate call sign.) The whole understanding of the rule of law is exactly that! And you, Mr. Asheraden, King of OIC, should be in subjection at all. You should, in fact, keep quiet! Cancel OIC and then come to the platform and talk! That's it... That's the question you've had for a long time... Before this Saeima is over. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Izalnieks: “The proposal is about what situations you can forgive!” ) And if we're talking about thought... on the idea of what you have also been in the mayor's office, the National Union - at the particular time you were in the mayor's office - nothing else - just as it was not in the previous Parliament or in this Parliament. You talk about national values, but national values work primarily in the context of the rule of law, which you should also respect. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Judin: The eighth proposal, Mr Gobzem! ; corrigendums: “Eighth!” ; “Don’t talk to the grass!” ) What I would call on the representatives of this coalition - well, if you cannot sit down, do not write applications that you need to extend the length of the sitting! For a break, go to the facilities or to the canteen (Dep. A. Judin: “Nothing to say about the eighth?” ), no matter, but don't make chaos in this hall! You are already embarrassing this Parliament with their behaviour, which is also visible... Also live live by the Saeima. BIP, which always... At the time of the debate, you can see video streaming, as the UKP Group behaves. And so it's in every sitting! It's not just today, it's not just last time, it's always! It's been a year! And I think that is something that needs to be openly discussed! Where are we? We are talking here about high democracy, high rule of law, but in fact we are somewhere else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U144	I closed the debate. I call on my fellow Members to speak about the proposal themselves, not just to point out to others. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Muižniece: “On procedure!” ; dep. U. Budriķis: “Mr. Mūrniece, about the procedure... “ On behalf of the Commission, is there anything to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U145	I informed you that Proposal No 8 has not been supported by the Commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “No commission!” ; methacrylics.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U146	The Commission has expressed its views and is available to Members in the tables. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 60, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U147	9. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U148	Please turn on the microphone member Anita Muižniece who wanted to talk about the procedure. (Interface: “Technical break! ”) (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U149	Yeah. I wanted to ask, I don't know, the Legal Bureau's opinion probably. Does the parliamentary roll foresee advertising to Members during the debate on their personal websites? Thank you. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U150	We ask the Legal Bureau to give such an opinion to the Commission on Mandates, ethics and application. So we are going on on on Amendment 9. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U151	Dear colleagues, This proposal also concerns the organisation of the procedure for the dismissal of the Council, particularly in the light of the experience we have gained in these days and practically in these hours, when we consider rather strangely prepared grounds for the MoEPRD and the draft law with an annotation. In principle, it can be concluded that we cannot leave the interpretation of the law to a single political person and the opening of this procedure for dismissal, especially in the light of what is also written in principle in the annotation of the dismissal of this council, which states that the dismissal of a municipality is the most difficult... the most difficult procedure, the heaviest one, if you can say so, punishment to the people's elected representatives for violations of the law, in the view of the Minister. This is why, especially in view of the fact that we are talking about political officials (the Hall of Noise) ... I can't hear myself anymore. Mrs. Moore, can you knock a little? ( Milestones.) Okay, thanks, if...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U152	Dear Mrs Stepanenko! Interlinks are allowed (Dep. A. Gobzem: “They’re not insular, it’s barrack!” ), but, colleagues...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U153	Thank you, Mrs Mourniece, yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U154	... However, be correct, they must not interfere with the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U155	Yeah. Thank you, Mrs. Mourniece. Of course. If we're talking so... on the proposal to return. This proposal provides for the right of the Minister to encourage the dismissal of a council, but this dismissal procedure is not credible to the other political person - the Saeima - but to the same voters who have elected it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Izalnieks: “I will wish him in an extraordinary election!” ) And so this procedure has begun with the Minister addressing the Central Electoral Commission and encouraging the referendum of the people. If more than half of the voters vote in favour of the dismissal of the Council, then new elections are held. This, in my opinion, is the most democratic process that we could introduce if, of course, you had this political will and you did not want to continue along this path of political composing, which you have already begun. I therefore ask you, honourable colleagues, to support my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U156	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U157	In the Commission, the proposal was not supported. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele–Lunova: “No commission!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U158	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 31, 58, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U159	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova. There is no support in the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U160	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - Mrs Regina Ločmele-Lunova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 30, against - 56, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U161	11. - the Group's proposal. There is no support in the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U162	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - the Group's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U163	12. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U164	Identical 11, so that it cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U165	13. - the Group's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U166	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Depp. Agešin: “He was affected! ” ; Subscription: ‘The Schemers!’ ; laughter, freedom of breath.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U167	Colleagues! Like the previous... My proposal, proposal 14, is exactly the same, so I will be speaking right now, when we are in the process of coming up with a proposal tabled by the Group in agreement. ( Interface: “Are you making it together? ”) ) I invite you to think and read the proposal. The proposal is that when this administration, administration, is in operation... shall be carried out by the Executive Director. Let me explain why. So far, the current order and all the dismissed domains... in principle, when there is the administration appointed by this government... everything is okay, order has been. But the question is, has anything changed or has nothing changed now? In a way, there has been a change. And it has changed very significantly, because the Executive Director as such is... You're... Together, we have voted for the Executive Director to perform completely different functions from 1 January of next year and much more extensive than has been the case so far. And its functions are directly entrusted to him, and he also has a certain different level of responsibility - that is, corporate governance. This is no longer happening at a political level, as it is at the moment... Chairman of the Board, Deputy... who's in charge of what he's in charge of. Well, in the Riga City Council... You will certainly follow up on what's going on there, but from 1 January it will be the Executive Director. I believe, however, that certain requirements must be met in order to be able to assume any kind of management of these capital companies at all. As in the ministries, it is the State Secretary or the Deputy State Secretary. If the Ministry remains without the Minister, it does not change what essentially leads the Ministry. And in this case, when the Saeima itself, with very serious and somewhat well-thought-out amendments, has, in my opinion, changed this model of management of capital shares, entrusted this really important part - already now - to the executive director of the municipality by removing it from the political level, it would be right to make these amendments right now too... that this new administration here is not the three appointed officials... Everyone is responsible... Look who these officials are, what responsibilities they will now have. They are assigned a completely different type of duty. And I call for support for this proposal, which is... submitted. This would, however, clarify and introduce this procedure in accordance with what it is and what it should be, in accordance with our own pre-established laws. Well, colleagues! I guess not, but now... support, please. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U168	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U169	The proposal is not supported by the Commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele–Lunova: “No commission!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U170	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - the proposal tabled by the Group by consensus! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 30, 59, abstaining. - No. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U171	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U172	Members shall not object. ( The box “No Vote! ”) ) and put to the vote. A little bit... ( Insight: “Let us then vote! ”) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of 14. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 32, against - 59, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U173	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U174	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U175	16. - Group agreement proposal. There is no support in the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U176	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - the proposal tabled by the Group by consensus! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U177	17. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. There is no support in the Commission. ( The utterances: ‘ Vote! ’) What is the proposal about? ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U178	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - Member Viktoras Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 31, 58, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U179	18. - the Group's proposal. There is no support in the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U180	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. - the proposal submitted by the Group. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U181	19. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U182	It is identical to the previous one and cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U183	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U184	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U185	This proposal does not change absolutely nothing. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Feldman: “Why did you submit?” ) This does not change absolutely nothing of the arrangements proposed by you. It only suspends its entry into force. This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 July 2021. With effect from 1 July 2021, when the new administrative territorial reform has entered into force... If this is the case, then the new municipalities will be able to get acquainted with this beautiful, well-thought-out law, which in no case applies to the extraordinary elections of Riga City Council. You will be able to learn and understand how to live further, what is the regulatory framework for their next four years, how to act, what will happen at the moment, if there are sudden elections. It will rule out the possibility that politicians, guided by some political motive, will want to release any thought legally, illegally... it excludes all of it and, in principle, removes any responsibility, any accusations from the opposition that the draft law may not be guided by the objectives it has been presented... and which is written in the annotation. Colleagues, as I have already said in the Commission, and today I will repeat from the parliamentary tribunal: if you support this proposal, I will personally support this law at second reading and even more. And even more. I will also withdraw my signature from the application already made by Members to the President of the Republic, Levit (Dep. Feldman: “You will be an angel! ” ) on non-announcement of these draft laws, which will no longer be a matter of concern, colleagues. ( Interface: “And the demand for the exile! ” ) I have not signed it. I call, colleagues, on you to support this proposal, however, and we will escape the very many unpleasant further negotiations that will arise if this draft law is supported in such a text. I call on you to support - and I will keep my name. I will also support the draft law at second, final, reading if I - 20. - the proposal, and I will take away any claims about how the democratic processes in our country are going to be carried out, and I will not, for some time, confuse you for any violations of these processes.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U186	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U187	Dear Members, What was the chance for this process... to participate in and listen to the reasoning both here and in the sittings of the Commission, then it is a disgusting... Some conclusions. Maybe you could keep it in mind. First. It is clear that the majority of the coalition will always, if there is a wish, achieve its own, early or late. This is a principle that the opposition should, however, bear in mind. ( The box “Ooo! ”) - if you are allergic Second. The wishes of each opposition party are to get into the position. There are several ways. The first way is to criticise, deny, search for excuses in order to undermine the position, but to gain an advantage in front of the voters. This principle is usually applied when the next elections are approaching. And the other way. The second way is to take into account why this party or the other party was not called or put under the heading. For example, farmers, to be honest, were not in position for one of the main reasons - because this... this principle - the fight against corruption - and it was a problem for farmers. But now it seems that the situation is changing thanks to Dana Reizniece-Ozola, who is trying to restore prestige to the party. Who knows! Who knows life long! Saeima (Laughter) ... Yes (Interface: Mr. Valaiņš, the signal!) )... The Saeima, I hope, will work to the end of its term. And maybe the position can ever also take into account this... That's why! - from this point of view, the parties in the position should be more rigorously criticised, because blind criticism can... Let us say that this principle may not be respected. ( Internouncing call.) Okay! Now maybe a little more... Another conclusion, which also shocked. It is a representative of KPV LV in the Commission. Very synchronously, the vote was taken together with the agreement and the ZZS. ( Interface: “It’s bad! ” ) Druscini was surprised. It's like a party of positions, as if that goal had been achieved. Three ministers - do we no longer need these ministers in the CPV LV? I don't know. I don't know! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U188	I closed the debate. Colleagues, the debate is closed. Whatever they were, they're already closed. (Laughter) Please, on behalf of the Commission... on the 20th proposal! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele–Lunova: “No commission!” ) The Commission’s opinion is set out in the following table... in the table! Please! ( Insects: “There is no commission in the name of the commission! ”) ; “We need to apply in time!” ) Please, on the proposal... Commission...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U189	I informed you that the Commission did not support that draft law. ( The box “Does not belong in the name of the commission! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U190	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 20. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer. Sub-words: ‘Wow!’ ) Please vote mode! ( Milestones: What are we voting on?) ; dep. Mr Bluķe: “On the proposal!” ; intermediate statement: "Proposal 20!" ; dep. Mr Bluķe: "Proposal 20." ) Please see the result. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported. ( Subtitle: “Where did the CPV 21 proposal remain? ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U191	The draft law commission has been examined. The vote divided 6 against 6. And the Commission did not support that draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U192	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to Law “On Municipalities” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 51, against - 42, abstaining - not. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, Time to break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U193	Dear members of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) Honourable members of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! In Colonel 16.35 we resume work in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U194	Name of the Saeima Secretary Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U195	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Dace Bluķe, Armands Krauze... Dace Blu is... Armands Krauze, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Lubova Švecova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U196	Thank you. Interruption until 5.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U197	Honourable Members! We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - draft law “On disposal of part of real estate “Ozolsalas” in Ķekava municipality, Ķekava municipality, for public needs – implementation of the main road project “E67/A7 Ķekava bypass””, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U198	Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 10 December, the draft law “On disposal of part of real estate “Ozolsalas” in Ķekava municipality, Ķekava municipality, for public needs – implementation of the main road project “E67/A7 Ķekava bypass” was discussed”. In order to implement the project “E67/A7 Ķekava bypass” it is necessary to dispose of part of the land plot of the real estate “Ozolsalas” in 0,8398 hectares in Ķekava municipality, Ķekava municipality. By decision of 1 December 2017, the Ministry of Transport confirmed the amount of a fair remuneration for the part of the land unit of the real estate Ozolsala in an area of 0,84 hectares. The joint owners of real estate Petrova and Ernstson have not agreed to the disposal of the part of the real estate Ozolsala according to the estimated remuneration, while the joint owners Jēkabson and Čerpinski have not replied. ‘ Latvian State Roads” has repeatedly addressed joint owners of real estate both in person and by telephone to explain the process of disposal, to conclude an agreement on voluntary disposal of real estate. A representative of real estate joint owners has indicated by phone that it will not be possible to conclude a contract with all joint owners. ‘ On 17 July 2018, the State Roads of Latvia” sent a repeated notice to joint owners of real estate with an invitation to announce the possibility to conclude an agreement on the voluntary disposal of real estate, setting a deadline of 31 August 2018. Upon receipt of the notification, the State Roads of Latvia has not received the consent of all joint owners to conclude a purchase agreement within the specified time limit. Information was received that one of the joint owners lives abroad and is not ready to go to Latvia to solve the issue of voluntary expropriation. Communication with other joint owners or their representatives has not taken place. In the light of the foregoing, this part of the real estate is sold to the development of the transport infrastructure and the disposal is the only way to achieve this objective. No proposal was submitted in accordance with the established procedure. The Legal Commission has supported the third final reading of the draft law. I call on my colleagues to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U199	Please call me! We will vote for draft law “On disposal of part of real estate “Ozolsalas” in Ķekava municipality, Ķekava municipality – implementation of the main road project “E67/A7 Ķekava bypass”” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Mobility”, third reading. Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption (Interface.) ... I'm sorry, colleagues. No, there are proposals for amendments to the agenda. Members Bondars, Strike, Dzintars, Paviluts and Izalnieks are asking for amendments to the agenda of the Saeima sitting and to consider draft law on the Council (inter-referendums.) ... So, honourable colleagues, these signatures are being withdrawn. So let's go on with the Saeima sitting. Draft law “Amendments to the Mobility Act”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption - Member Mārtiņš Staķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U200	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption at its meeting on 10 December this year examined the draft law in question. There are seven proposals in total. 1. is the proposal of Mārtiņš Staķis, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, who defines the purpose of this law, including measures to support the defence industry and their implementation. The Commission was supported. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U201	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U202	2 is also a proposal by Mārtiņš Staķis, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence on support measures for the implementation of the defence industry. And that was also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U203	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U204	3. - It is also my proposal. This provides for the exclusion of Article 5 of the draft law. The Commission supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U205	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U206	4. - a proposal by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence on the arrangements for the implementation by the Ministry of Defence of design competitions to support the development of military or dual-use products. The Commission supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U207	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U208	The next three proposals are similar in nature. A representative of a non-governmental organisation of the defence industry who... which will be put forward for cooperation with the Ministry of Defence - that he must also, if necessary, be granted special permission for access to state secrets. Consequently, proposal 5 was partly supported and incorporated 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U209	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U210	Six more. - The proposal of the Legal Office is partly supported and included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U211	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U212	And accordingly, the 7th proposal has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U213	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U214	Therefore, please support the draft law at third reading as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U215	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final reading of the draft law amending the Law on Mobility. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -69, against -no, abstain - 14. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” (No. 367/Lp13), third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U216	Madam President of the Saeima. Members! Members! We are looking at the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” (No. 367/Lp13), third reading. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has received some proposals. 1. is the technical proposal of the Legal Office specifying the title of the chapter. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U217	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U218	2. is the proposal of the Minister for Finance, Mr Reira, who has also been supported by the Commission, and this clarifies the reference point to be taken into account when calculating the amount of the penalty for the number of non-registered persons in the working time accounting system. In the past, it meant that we should count... and the reference point is the number and number of persons found on the construction site. This is currently being clarified by the number of persons to be recorded in the electronic time record system. The Commission supported it. Please, please, give me your support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U219	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U220	And 3 is the proposal of the Minister for Finance, Mr Reira. Please, please! This proposal provides for administrative liability for unpaid personal income tax to apply to a private person until 2021. The rules adopted in previous readings provide for 2022 as the deadline for taking up responsibility. The Commission did not support Mr Reira's proposal because it understood that... At present, there is still a complex system of differentiated accounting for the non-eligible minimum, and there are still very many people - about 10 000 - who have not made declarations, so they do not even know what status they have vis-à-vis the country - who are over-taxing or who will be obliged to pay. Members of the Commission therefore believe that this deadline - 2022 - would be appropriate, i.e. with a longer deadline. Consequently, the Commission has not supported this proposal by Mr Reira, and I ask you, on behalf of the Commission, not to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U221	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U222	These are all proposals, and I would therefore call for support for the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U223	Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” (No. 367/Lp13) at third, final reading. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour, Member Evita Zālīte-Grosa.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U224	Hello, colleagues! Let us work on the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance". Ten proposals were received to the third reading. Briefly, I would like to recall the substance of these amendments. Hence, it is necessary to establish a supplement to the family state benefit as a form of additional income that is not taken into account when assessing the customer’s material resources. Develop the content of the social rehabilitation services of people dependent on psychoactive substances, complementing the range of recipients of services. According to the task given by the Cabinet of Ministers, to clarify the delegation given to the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the regulation of psychosocial rehabilitation services for children in palliative care and the regulation of psychosocial rehabilitation services for persons with oncological disease, as well as to specify the range of persons who have the right to receive psychosocial rehabilitation for persons with oncological disease. And the last one. In order to encourage the participation of persons with disabilities who receive municipal social assistance for at least three months in measures for the preservation, restoration and acquisition of labour and social skills, increase the number of hours of participation in such measures from 12 hours per week to 15 hours per week. Ten proposals have been received. 1. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare, Kriš Lipshan. Commission support included in proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U225	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U226	2. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U227	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U228	3. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U229	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U230	4. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U231	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U232	5. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U233	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U234	6. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U235	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U236	7. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. Partly supported and included in proposal 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U237	6. ... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U238	Hey!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U239	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U240	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U241	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U242	9. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. Incorporated in proposal 10.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U243	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U244	And 10. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U245	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U246	Please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U247	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final reading of the draft law on social services and social assistance! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Arms Movement Act’, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Aldis Blumbergs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U248	Good evening, colleagues! On 10 December this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption examined proposals for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Arms”. A total of six proposals were received. Proposal 1 is the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Sanda Girgen, who defines... provide for the definition of ‘munitions’ and ‘arms’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U249	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U250	2. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, which lays down responsibility for... if a medical examination or test for the determination of alcohol concentration is refused during transportation, transfer of weapons. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U251	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U252	3. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Sand Ģürgen, which is of a technical nature and actually clarifies the numbering of articles... and minor clarifications in some definitions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U253	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U254	4. - the proposal by Member Bergmanis, which provides for the use of certain types of peintball weapons in guns. There is no support in the Commission, but with the idea that perhaps for the third reading it will be specified and then it could also be supported... But... the Commission is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U255	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U256	5. - a proposal from the Minister for the Interior. This involves the decoding of administrative irregularities... to the special law.... Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U257	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U258	6. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Sand Ģürgen, which is linked... intends to link the entry into force of this Law with the entry into force of the Law on Administrative Liability. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U259	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U260	This would call for support to be given to the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U261	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Arms Movement Law at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U262	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U263	The deadline for submitting proposals is 20 January 2020. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption - Member Mārtiņš Staķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U264	Colleagues, welcome again! At its meeting on 10 December, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption examined this draft law. One proposal was received, which is a proposal from the committee responsible. The wording is slightly clarified and supplemented. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U265	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U266	Therefore, please approve the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U267	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guards” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U268	Member States shall determine how such reference is to be made and how
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U269	15, huh?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U270	15 January
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U271	15 January 2020 - deadline for submission of proposals. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” (No. 421/Lp13), second reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U272	Colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined this bill for second reading. Four proposals have been received. 1. - the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which clarifies the wording of the article on liability in the field of international automatic exchange of information. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U273	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U274	2. is the proposal of Prime Minister Kariņš, who has been tabled in place of the Minister of Finance, which provides for liability, i.e. a fine of up to EUR 3 200 for failure to comply with the rules on reportable cross-border schemes. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U275	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U276	3. is a proposal put forward by Prime Minister Kariņa in place of the Minister of Finance, clarifying the wording of the article, complementing the number of entities with a financial institution. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U277	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U278	4. There is also a proposal by Prime Minister Kariņš to extend the period provided for in the transitional provisions, instead of the Minister of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U279	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U280	I invite Members to support the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Taxation and Fees" at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U281	Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” (No. 421/Lp13) at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U282	The deadline for proposals is 27 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U283	The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 December this year. Draft law “Amendments to law “On Judicial Power”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U284	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Legal Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power”” before the second reading, received five proposals, and I will report on them in turn. 1. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Specify and specify the circumstances which should be fulfilled in order to enable the Minister of Justice to direct the candidate for the post of a district (city) court or regional court judge. This clarification is supported by the Council for the Judiciary and also by the Legal Commission. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U285	Members... ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) wishes to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U286	2. - also the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Mr. Janis Bordens. There is a editorial nature, the Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U287	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U288	3. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. There is also a editorial character. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U289	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U290	4. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns, which is of a technical nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U291	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U292	And finally 5. - The proposal of the Minister of Justice, which is editorial in nature, specifies the time when certain norms of the law enter into force... that not from 1 January 2020, but at the same time as the entry into force of the Law on Administrative Liability. It is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U293	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U294	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U295	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 85, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U296	On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for the deadline for the submission of proposals to be set at 6 January 2020.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U297	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 6 January 2020. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Disciplinary Liability of Judges”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiniņa – Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U298	The Legal Commission has reviewed the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Judicial Disciplinary Liability” before the examination here, in the sitting of the Saeima, at second reading. A total of 13 proposals have been submitted. 1. is the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns, which is of a technical nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U299	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U300	2. is the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan, which is editorial in nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U301	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U302	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns, which is editorial in nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U303	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U304	4. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns, which provides for the right of the Judicial Ethics Commission to request information from the Penalty Register about administrative violations committed by judges in order to assess possible violation of the norms of the Judicial Ethics Code. The Legal Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U305	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U306	4. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns, which requires the Judicial Ethics Commission to request information from the Penalty Register about the violations mentioned by me at least every six months. And it is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U307	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U308	5. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns, which is of a technical nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U309	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U310	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission supports the above-mentioned proposal 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U311	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U312	7. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns, which is of a technical nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U313	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U314	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission supports the above-mentioned proposal 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U315	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U316	9. - a proposal from the Legal Office which is of a technical nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U317	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U318	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Legal Office which is of a technical nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U319	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U320	11. - a proposal from the Legal Office which is of a technical nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U321	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U322	12. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns, which is editorial in nature and specifies transitional provisions regarding the period of entry into force of certain provisions of the law, also providing that it shall enter into force at the same time as the entry into force of the Law on Administrative Liability. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U323	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U324	And finally 13. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns, which is editorial in nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U325	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U326	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U327	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Judicial Disciplinary Liability” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 83, for - 1, for - 1. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U328	For this draft law, too, the Legal Commission is asking to set the deadline for the submission of proposals as of 6 January 2020.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U329	The deadline for submitting proposals is 6 January 2020.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U330	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U331	Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Public Service Regulators”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U332	Yes, colleagues! We work with amendments to the law “On Public Service Regulators”. These amendments were designed to... The main objective was to ensure rotation of the Board of Regulators so that there would be no sudden change of the entire Board and the Board at all without competence. We have received 18 proposals for the second reading. 1. - the proposal made by Member Ata Leiens, which is linked as once to the way in which these members are appointed. Partly supported, included in proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U333	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U334	2. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Like what I said about this appointment. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U335	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U336	3. - Lenny's proposal. On how to ensure... also on this connection with rotation. Incorporated... partially supported, included in proposal 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U337	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U338	4. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U339	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U340	5. - A proposal from Member Ata Leiens. Also associated with rotation. Partly supported, included in proposal 6.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U341	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U342	6. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U343	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U344	7. - A proposal from Member Ata Lejiņš, which proposes that the regulator may obtain the necessary information free of charge. Partly supported and included in proposal 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U345	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U346	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U347	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U348	9. - A proposal from Member Ata Leiens. Associated with what the public could be involved in regulatory decision-making. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U349	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U350	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs relating to the manner in which the regulator may lay down requirements for the performance of his functions in respect of the keeping and organisation of records of Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U351	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U352	11. - A proposal from Member Ata Leiens, which is similar. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U353	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U354	12. - the proposal made by Member Ata Lejiņš, by which he proposes to increase the fee due to the regulator from 0,2 per cent to 0,23 per cent of the net turnover of the service provider. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U355	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U356	13. - A proposal from Member Ata Leiens. Associated with compensation for dismissal or dismissal of members of the Board. The Commission is not supported either.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U357	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U358	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative nature proposal. Replace the words ‘valid’ by ‘applicable’. Supported and included 17. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U359	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U360	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which is linked to rotation, stating that, in the event (whoever may join in the near future), the term of the members of the current Council will expire - in order to prevent everyone from having to come to an end at the same time, longer time limits than those laid down by law are provided for. President-in-Office - for seven years, for two members of the Council - for six, and for two members of the Council - for five. Thus creating the situation so that, as if it were the next time, all will not end at once. This does not, however, completely eliminate this situation, but partly address it. The Commission was partly supported and incorporated in 17. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U361	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U362	16. - A proposal from Member Ata Leiens. Similar, analogous proposal. Partially supported, included 17. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U363	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U364	And 17. - a proposal from the committee responsible aimed at introducing an appropriate rotation of the chairman and the members of the board. So what I said. To avoid a simultaneous expiry of the term of office for all. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U365	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U366	And 18. - A proposal from Member Ata Leiens. The entry into force of amendments to Section 31 (1) of this Law on 1 January 2022. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U367	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U368	I call for support for this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U369	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Public Service Regulators”” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U370	Okay. The deadline for proposals is 7 January... No, 20 January... Next year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U371	Then next year, which January?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U372	20 January
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U373	20 January The deadline for submitting proposals is 20 January 2020. Dear colleagues, Changes to the agenda for the Bureau meeting were tabled. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks to change the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft law “The Law on the Dismissal of Riga City Council”. Are Members... Thus, Members obviously want to talk about and against. ‘ Aldis Gobzems, the Member against’, has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U374	Given that, in principle, in this Parliament, it has come to an end... Whatever the difference, as you say, I'll vote... but it is essential to leave one small part of the protocol, and that part of it is. This bill comes to Parliament for consideration with the opinion of the Saeima Legal Bureau, which is negative. Consequently, the Legal Office of the Saeima has given its opinion that there is no appropriate legal basis to promote such specific draft laws. Clearly, you, the coalition, will vote and... and it is clear that when I look at the substance, I will also give my reasons why I will be voting in favour in the final. But here I want to say one small detail. We remember history - the history of parliament! There have been such situations in Parliament. One of these situations was related to pensions. At the same time there was a negative opinion of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, then there was a Constitutional Court. And the parliament lost in the Constitutional Court. Saeima For the Importance of the Legal Bureau... The Legal Bureau of the Saeima is, by nature, a neutral institution within the parliament and does not play in adequate conditions for one party or the other - neither coalition nor opposition - but gives indications of the quality of the laws, the quality of the draft law, the quality or the quality of the law, whether it is legal or not. This is the task of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. And it has to be said here that the Legal Office of the Saeima has given an opinion that such a draft law does not, in fact, comply with any rule of law - with its content and with the grounds on which it is drafted. I invite you to take a look at the examples that have been in our own history, in the history of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia, at the similar situations, if the Legal Bureau of the Saeima has given such an opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U375	Colleagues! Thus, the Member has spoken against. Members Dzintars, Strīķe, Bondars, Pavļuts and Latkovskis are asking to include this draft law on the agenda of the sittings before the agenda item “Amendments to the Law on Medical Treatment”. We must vote in favour of the amendments to the agenda. Please call me! We will vote for amendments to the agenda of the sitting to include the draft law on the first reading of the law on the dismissal of the Riga City Council and to consider it before the draft law on medical treatment! Please vote mode! ( Milestones.) Please get the result! - 51, against - 38, abstaining - not. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Tobacco Products, Plant Smoking Products, Electronic Smoking Devices and Their Liquids”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Normunds Gunna.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U376	Hello, colleagues! The Social and Labour Commission supports the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Tobacco Products, Plant Smoking Products, Electronic Smoking Devices and their Liquids” prepared for the first reading. The purpose of the amendments is to transfer the administrative penalties included in the Latvian Administrative Violations Code to the regulations of the sector. Given that restrictions on the movement of tobacco products are also included in other laws, this law will only include a few... Part of this limitation. The individual provisions are intended to be amended, but I will report on this in more detail at second reading. As I said, the amendments have been supported by the Commission and I call on colleagues to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U377	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Tobacco Products, Plant Smoking Products, Electronic Smoking Devices and Their Liquids”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U378	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 31 January 2020.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U379	Thank you. Deadline for the submission of proposals - 21 January 2020... 31 January Draft law “Law on the Dismissal of Riga City Council”, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission... Who will report, Mr. Bondar? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M. Bondars: “Mārtiņš Steins!” )... Member Martin Stein. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U380	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Minister! Resurrection! In the budget and financial (tax) commission we have examined the draft law “The Law on the Dismissal of Riga City Council” (No. 530/Lp13). As the Legal Bureau pointed out in the Commission, such a draft law is not a typical draft law on the Saeima. Given that the Saeima decided to refer the draft law to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission... In the commission, we looked at the draft law for several hours. There was a wide range of views in the Commission. The discussions were intense, dynamic, and there were conflicts of legal arguments in the discussions. Members asked questions and received answers if they had to answer. As a result, Members had to accept a difficult task, assessing the arguments. The Commission also held a vote on the failure to look at and hand over the draft law to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. That was as follows: for -3, against -7, refraining - 2. As a result, the proposal was rejected and the draft law was reviewed by the Commission. More about the arguments and the Commission. The draft law provides for the dismissal of the Riga City Council and the appointment of a temporary administration. The aim is to prevent the situation that the Riga City Council allows illegal action and does not comply with the Law on Waste Management, the Law “On Municipalities” and other regulatory enactments of the municipality’s autonomous function to organise municipal waste management. When preparing the draft law, Riga City Council's actions were evaluated, while performing one of the autonomous functions of the municipality - the organization of municipal waste management function. The assessment of the actions of the current elections is also subject to the action of the previous elections of the Riga City Council, considering that the Riga City Council, since 6 December 2012, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Latvia adopted a judgment in the case No. 2012-01-01 “On Compliance of Para 12 of Transitional Provisions of the Law on Waste Management with Article 1 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia, insofar as it applies to contracts concluded without applying regulatory acts on public procurement or non-compliant regulatory acts on public procurement”, has not ensured proper implementation of the decision of the Constitutional Court. What is the legal basis? What are the infringements of the legal provisions? Violations of the Satversme. Following the announcement of the Competition Council on the interim regulation, the Riga City Council did not take any action to ensure the continuity of the provision of waste management services and do not pose an anthropogenic disaster risk related to potential damage to the environment and public health. If the collection and export of municipal waste in the administrative territory of Riga... Observing the failure of Riga City Council to ensure the performance of its functions in compliance with the Waste Management Law... to solve the situation, in which there were no actions established in regulatory enactments regarding waste management agreements between waste producers and managers and waste managers, and to ensure the right of every citizen to live in a favourable environment, provided that the state cares for the preservation and improvement of the environment, as stipulated in Article 115 of the Satversme. Violations of the law. Section 91(1)(1) of the Law on Municipalities, Section 8(1)(3), Articles 16, 18 and 20 of the Law on Waste Management, point 12 of the transitional provisions. Violations of the Cabinet of Ministers regulations. 2 April 2013 Regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers 184 ‘Regulations on separate collection, preparation for re-use, recycling and material recovery’, points 2 and 2.1. Regulation of the Cabinet of Ministers of 3 June 2017 No. 328 Criteria and procedures for assessing the accessibility of the separate collection service for citizens. And non-compliance with judgments. Judgment of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Latvia of 6 December 2012 in the case No. 2012-01-01, which I have already mentioned, non-fulfilling. As the Commission said, the waste on the streets of Riga is not because the Cabinet of Ministers and the Saeima have established an emergency situation that gave the right to ensure the management of waste outside the legal regulation. Colleagues! It is precisely because of the exceptional situation that there is no waste on the streets in Riga. Due to the failure of the Riga City Council, the Cabinet of Ministers had to declare the emergency situation. The waste management function is an important municipal function, the failure of which has very serious consequences. In September 2019, Riga City Council called on the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development to immediately engage in solving the situation by applying legal instruments provided for in the Law “On Emergency and Exceptional Situation”. On 12 September 2019 the Cabinet of Ministers adopted an order No. 432 “On announcing the Emergency in the Administrative Territory of Riga”. The Riga City Council had not acted properly after the announcement of the emergency, therefore the Cabinet of Ministers was forced to extend the declared emergency for the second time, for a further period of three months - from 2 December 2019 to 12 March 2020. It is two times when the Cabinet of Ministers had to resort to such an emergency solution as the announcement of the emergency situation, because the municipality was unable to perform its autonomous function. It's nothing! This proves violations of the law most directly. And the Riga City Council still does not comply with the law. The irregularities identified are still valid and have not been corrected. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zariņš: “What violations?” ) The exceptional situation already did not give the right to fail to comply with the law, it merely gave the right to provide a service. The Legal Office referred to several cases, considerations to be followed. The right to be heard is of great importance to the parties involved. It is necessary to evaluate the proposals made, to assess the arguments and to justify proposals that are not supported. The Legal Bureau indicated that it is important to listen to the representatives of Riga City Council and to listen to the opinion of the Council; to clearly understand the legal basis for encouraging the dismissal of Riga City Council; violations must be during the term of office of the existing Council; violations must be repeated; other means of monitoring have not been sufficient to prevent violations; violations must be existing... there must be existing violations of the law which the Council violates; the dismissal of the Riga City Council must prevent the violations from being eliminated. The Legal Bureau also indicated that the Saeima is a place to discuss the substance, and a place to eliminate doubts. According to the evaluated legal basis, the political decision to dismiss or not release the Riga City Council has to be followed. The Legal Bureau also indicated that if the draft law will be assessed by the Constitutional Court, it will use audio recordings of both the commission and the Saeima sitting, it will evaluate both arguments presented in them and not presented. In the opinion of the Bureau of Legal Affairs, the debate should continue at second reading in order to improve the quality of the reasoning. Both the head of the panel and I call on my colleagues to continue the debate at second reading as well. ( Interface: “What was the opinion of the Legal Office? ” ) Commission had a wide representation of ministries, officials and officials. VARAM rebutted the arguments of the Legal Bureau, the arguments of the Riga City Council, answered all the questions asked. The opinion of VARAM is reflected in detail in the annotation of the draft law, but also orally representatives of VARAM, the Minister himself and other ministerial officials, expressed and answered questions. The Ministry referred to the fact that the violations were committed by the Council of this term of office and referred to the finding of repeatability. The Ministry also mentioned that it has repeatedly addressed the municipality and maintained active communication. Riga City Council had the opportunity to implement all recommendations of VARAM, to prevent violations, but among the priorities of Riga City Council these violations have not been eliminated. The temporary administration has all the same powers and also the same responsibility as the Council. The temporary administration will have to issue binding provisions of the law, ensure enforcement of the judgment of the Constitutional Court and management of municipal waste. The draft law was harmonised in the responsible ministries - Justice and Finance - and coordinated by the State Chancellery. There was also a reference to disobeying the municipality in the Cabinet. The Cabinet of Ministers is just the initiator. The decision - whether or not to forgive - shall be taken by the Saeima. The Saeima, the committee responsible - the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission - invited the Riga City Council to the meeting and listened to its representatives. The Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development also pointed out that there has been intensive correspondence with Riga City Council all year round, and on 21 November the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development requested explanations, clearly motivated by the fact that the Riga City Council has repeatedly violated the law. In the Commission we heard a broad representation of Riga City Council – the opinion of the Council was expressed by the Chairman of Riga City Council Olegs Burovs, sworn lawyer Edgars Atlācis, the director of the Council's Legal Board Jānis Liepiņš and the head of the Housing and Environment Department Environment Department Evija Piņķe. The Riga City Council considers the draft law to be unlawful and indicates that the reasoning is insufficient. The Chairman of Riga City Council also expressed thanks to the Cabinet of Ministers and the Saeima for declaring the emergency situation so that the Riga City Council does not arrive in the waste mountains. The representative of the Latvian Association of Local Governments pointed out that there was no objective for the draft law, but we found in the committee that the purpose was mentioned and shown in the documents of the Commission, and was expressed also from the VARAM side. The aim is also reflected in the material available to Members. The Latvian Municipal Union asked for the opinion of Riga City Council to be included in the annotation, but it was expressed in the Commission and was available to members of the Commission and all interested persons. The Latvian Municipal Union also called for a thorough analysis. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “What was the opinion of the Legal Bureau?” ) As a result, the Commission has supported the urgency of the draft law, and I call on the Saeima to decide on it at the moment.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U381	Dear colleagues, we are therefore called upon by the Commission to decide on urgency. Mr Dolgopolov, did you want to talk about urgency? So, 'no' urgency, if? It's a matter of urgency. One for, one for, one for. ‘ Therefore, you have applied to speak to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U382	Dear colleagues, The closer the midnight, the brighter and better the work is going on. But it's not a story. Speaking of urgency, the Germans have such a saying: “Langsam, aber gut!” In this case, there is no window or gut. Because the bill caused us to do so (Dep. J. Iesalnieks: ‘In the state language!’ )... the draft law has led to major disputes not only at the political level, but above all, and most directly to lawyers... between legal professionals and legal bodies. So... talk about the rule of law - the compromise or the uncompromising rule of law - is very sweet and very pleasant, but this is about the rule of law as such at all. Therefore, all arguments about and against must be assessed. So this process can't be over an hour... and the discussion - how valuable it would be to the Saeima Commission, especially in such a serious Commission as the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. One point. Two points. Not only must these arguments be considered, which are "for" and "no" the progress of this draft law, but the substance of the matter must also be seen as such, because in any case... we must make a decision, not on waste, we have a decision, a political decision, on the dismissal of the municipal council. That's a point two. Three points. It must be said, and it must be very sad, that today's discussion of accompanying laws, which, naturally, are not in any way related to the proposed draft law, yet... there will not be as easy and as easy as was intended. It should therefore be taken into account. That's a point three. And point four. I understand very well the author, the applicants, the wish to accept... either the commitments of the New Conservative Party or Development/About! commitments to adopt this draft law before Christmas and New Year. It is a good idea, but it may be dedicated to March 8 or May 1, to the day of solidarity or to another day. However, I would ask you to think ten times before you vote in favour of granting urgency. For my part, however, I call on you to get rid of excessive emotions and to vote 'no'. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U383	Colleagues! We must vote in favour of declaring the draft law urgent. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Law on the dismissal of Riga City Council” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U384	Proposals?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U385	Let us start a debate. Name of Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pucem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U386	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Highly honored Saeima! There are several things I have to tell you about the prepared Riga City Council's dismissal law. First. Thank you to the rapporteur for the bill, Mr Stein, for the very detailed presentation of the arguments he has heard at today's sitting, as well as the assessments... work. We have prepared the draft law on dismissal of Riga City Council, and according to the law this is really a special case. Article 91 of the Law “On Municipalities” establishes the right for the Saeima to dismiss the municipal council in certain cases, as well as establishes the procedure... and who are entitled to submit such a draft law. And according to law, only the Cabinet of Ministers has such rights. The Cabinet has also supported the preparation, examination and submission of such a draft law to the Saeima on 17 December this year. But the road to December 17 has been quite long. The municipality of Riga has been the object of enhanced supervision of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development all this year, as well as in the past, during the previous Minister. Why is that? First of all, because there were reasons. Multiplely significant public scandals related to the work of Riga Municipality encouraged the Ministry to pay more attention to the work of Riga City Council and to evaluate its activities in a focused manner. In the framework of this year, it also coincided with violations discovered in the municipality of Riga regarding the supervision of shares and capital companies, which, unfortunately, has also led to a major scandal, which is related to several criminal proceedings and investigations. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova’s intermediate call. At the same time, within the framework of this year, we had to face a special situation with regard to municipal waste management in Riga municipality. And here are actually two groups of actions. On the one hand, during this period long, repeated, concrete Riga Municipality... violation of the law. On the other hand, during this period the municipality of Riga also failed to perform its statutory functions and did not provide the citizens with the services provided by the law without ensuring the full exercise of the citizens' right to the environment. For offences. On 6 December 2012, the Constitutional Court adopted a judgment in the case on point 12 of the Transitional Provisions of the Waste Management Law. This judgment ordered all municipalities, not only the municipality of Riga, to take certain actions from 2013 to ensure compliance of their activities with the regulations of the Waste Management Law. Since then, Riga Municipality has not complied with the norms of this law. In accordance with the procedure laid down by the Law on Waste Management, the selection of municipal waste managers has not been carried out, and currently there are no existing agreements on municipal waste management or... contracts for this... The city of Riga. ( Internouncing call.) The other thing. On this case the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development has repeatedly warned about the case, requested explanations, issued warnings on this - 2019. - during the year, but also in 2018 and 2017, when this Riga City Council is elected. As a result of this situation, it was not... it wasn't... Riga Municipality has not complied with the judgment of the Constitutional Court and has not provided for the Law on Waste Management... the selection of appropriate municipal waste managers. The Cabinet had to make a very special decision (and it was decided on 12 September this year). The decision, which in fact is appropriate in the territory of the Republic of Latvia very rarely, is about identifying an emergency situation. The Saeima supported this decision. And actually both the Cabinet of Ministers and the Saeima in their debates on this issue... Has evaluated this issue very closely that this is in fact an opportunity for Riga Municipality to organise its activities, to ensure action in accordance with the law. However, during the period from 12 September to 12 December Riga Municipality did not take action to ensure the choice of waste managers in compliance with the Waste Management Law. The competition to select the compliant waste managers was announced on December 12, this year, on the day when the period of the emergency came to an end. For this reason, during the whole period of the extraordinary situation we asked Riga Municipality for information on what they were planning to do, what is their intended action, but instead we received reservations about what was not done. The second significant violation is related to the fact that Riga Municipality has not issued binding regulations for municipal waste management that comply with the regulations of the Waste Management Law. Such regulations have not been in force in the municipality of Riga since 2016, and both in 2017, 2018 and 2019 (in this year in particular - seven times!) The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development has invited Riga Municipality to issue regulations that comply with legal norms. Why is this also important? You remember the situation related to the attempt to buy domestic waste management service providers as a result of a public-private partnership. The municipality of Riga announced this... together with the limited liability company Gatli EKO... procurement procedure, public-private partnership procedure, in a situation where the binding rules established a completely different procedure for the management of municipal waste - division of Riga into three zones, mandatory rules for different service providers in these zones. This was the case at the time when the Riga Municipality announced a tender procedure based on a completely different principle. Binding regulations were finally adopted at the Riga City Council, after repeated reminders, in November of this year, but they were adopted in breach of the Waste Management Law, which obliged me, as Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, to suspend several points of activity in these regulations. Finally, part three. Does the municipal waste management service, which is currently received by the residents of Riga municipality, comply with the requirements of the law? The answer is no. The law has long laid down requirements for municipal waste management other than those provided for in the city of Riga. Multiple reminders and attempts to ensure the provision of such a service are unfortunately not successful. On 21 November this year, in the light of the above facts, I officially recorded as Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development the fact that Riga Municipality has repeatedly violated the law and that the case referred to in Section 91, first paragraph, point 1 of the Law “On Local Authorities” has entered into, which can serve as a basis for proposing the dismissal of Riga City Council. I warned about this fact in Riga municipality and asked for explanations in Riga municipality. I also received a reply to that request on 29 November. The answer is also set out in an annotation annexed to the draft law and made available to all Members. In this reply, Riga Municipality does not actually explain what steps they intend to take, but only points out that the violation of the law does indeed still exist; that they still think about how to prevent it. And so far, until 19 December 2019, has not been prevented. If circumstances occur, this does not mean that the Cabinet of Ministers is obliged to submit the law on dismissal. The law establishes the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to do so. So such a right also means an obligation for us... The Cabinet of Ministers shall assess whether the submission of such a draft law is necessary. The evaluation of the necessity of the draft law has also been included in the annexation of the draft law, but its essence is that the municipality of Riga during this special test, which the Cabinet of Ministers and the Saeima had determined for it due to the exceptional situation, has unfortunately shown that it is unable to fulfil these obligations and there are no indications that it will change. In these circumstances, I considered it my duty to guide the draft law “The Law on the Dismissal of Riga City Council” in the Saeima... In the government and then in the Saeima, it was discussed in the order of the Cabinet of Ministers. Opinions on this were delivered by lawyers of the State Chancellery, lawyers of the Ministry of Justice, it was agreed with lawyers of the Ministry of Justice and the State Chancellery, and the prepared version was a joint decision of the Government. The draft law is relatively simple. It provides for a decision on the dismissal of Riga City Council. According to the law “On Municipalities”, the Saeima must establish a temporary administration. The Cabinet has proposed a draft composition of the temporary administration, but of course, the Saeima has every right to adjust this composition if it deems it necessary. Today, for example, one of the Members of the Commission, Member Reizniece-Ozola said that it would be necessary to have a larger Council... the composition of the temporary administration. Of course, the Saeima can decide if it considers it necessary... determine the scope of temporary administration functions, as well as what is very important, since the Law “On Municipalities” and the Election Law of the City Council and the City Council of the Republic do not provide for electoral procedures in the event of extraordinary elections, this Law sets certain time limits to ensure the conduct of elections, and also the potential way in which the election date could be determined, i.e. after two months... on the Saturday after two months after the entry into force of this Law. This deadline was obtained during the consultation process with the Central Electoral Commission as necessary for the organisation of the elections, given that the elections are, however, also large... a cross-cutting measure. Finally, the law lays down the procedure for paying the remuneration of members of the temporary administration and the rates of pay. Now, if I may, I'll use a little... and, in this speech, I will perhaps also include my own personal political assessment in this situation. I have noticed that some highly honourable Members of the Saeima tend to pay attention to themselves with various figurative terms. I'll try it, too. Let's imagine a big ship with an appropriate team. At one nice moment, the driver agrees with the chief engineer that he will no longer submit to the master and become the oldest engineer officer, while the master will have his own cabin. After that, your item leaves the ship radiant, because he, seeing, has wanted to become the master of the ship since childhood and has now been offended. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Gobzem: “Do not get real! It's too complicated!” ) Gradually, the entire team, including chefs, is involved in the dispute, and therefore no one really has time to work. In line with today's vote, this comparison problem is that no one is currently trying to collect waste at the same time (Dep. I. Zarins: “They collect themselves!” )... At the same time, the problem has also broken mechanisms, lost course and now also cards. In the case of Riga City Council, this is not just about waste. To a certain extent, it can be said that the mess in this area is just a more shocking expression of how the Riga City Council has worked so far - poor quality street repairs, bridges in emergency state, corruption scandals in various local government structures, intrusive house management - and more, and more. ( Internouncing call.) The problem is that Riga City Council management does not deal with most of its issues under its responsibility. One part may be corrected. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, To some extent, it is not even so important which politician or political group is more responsible for the current situation and which is less. It can't be that the capital becomes hostage politicians to each other's disputes and outskirts' intrigues. ( Interface: ‘ Really? ’) ) It is necessary, so to say, to re-start the situation, which would simply put politicians back on the ground in the Riga town hall and make them reflect on what is going on. Dear colleagues, I will notice that part of you feel uncomfortable in this situation, when the parliament has to make such a decision on the municipality of Riga. Maybe it's better not to intervene so we don't have to throw it down later? The problem is that the Saeima will challenge it even if the current situation in Riga continues. Why did the Saeima allow such a mess in Riga? In short, Parliament's remoteness will ultimately do nothing, even if we look at the personal interests of the Members of the Saeima. The Saeima may, of course, pretend not to see what is happening in Riga, but, believe me, it is the government that is to blame and you too... those people who are your voters outside Riga and who will have enjoyed the current Riga City Council, working or studying in Riga, or visiting the capital with some other purpose on their skin. After all, the negative events in the Riga City Council have been the main theme of all television news programmes for more than a year. ( Intercretion: Mr. Pouce is in second place.) ) The current management of Riga City Council claims that the situation is not so bad and right away, everything will be fine. Tell me, what exactly would allow us to believe in such promises? Even for the small reason that those who have shown their ability to do so will remain in the same number and the level of their personal... The level of credibility is about the same as in the Soviet Union - I think the Central Committee of the Comparty will understand that the country needs reforms, and these reforms will be implemented. Honourable Members! I can imagine that there are those among you who do not feel certain about different legal terms, because it is really not easy for a non-legal person to understand them very often. For such people it may seem that in the decision on the dismissal of the Riga City Council, lawyers have definitely reduced something, something, as they say, has drawn behind the hair. You know, I wouldn't even insult such suspicions. However, I would like to draw your attention to an important aspect. It is not so that all Latvian lawyers would work for VARAM or for the government. And that means that any decision of my or my ministerial colleagues will be modestly assessed (in a good sense) by other lawyers and experts, and they will not delay in pointing out errors, if any. You can think of me as you want. But I don't think I'm avant-tourism and want to add to the very tense work schedule - for full happiness! - the scandal of the legal validity of the decisions. It is simply not in my interest. The draft law has been harmonised both by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice and by the State Chancellery. Even before the submission to the Saeima, the Ministry, in cooperation with the State Chancellery, developed the draft law according to the views of its lawyers. I would like to draw your attention to another argument in favour of the starter in the municipality of Riga. I think it is not necessary to prove the role of Riga in Latvia's economy. Riga can give a lot of good impetus to the national economy. At the same time, the great influence of Riga also means that recession or stagnation in Riga is detrimental to Latvia as a whole. I and my colleagues in the government and you, honourable Members of the Saeima... It is self-evident - we are interested in the development of the Latvian economy more rapidly, because it will also be easier to fulfil the promised voters in Kurzeme, Latgale or Zemgale. None of us are pleased with the voter's accusations. We need to understand that Latvia's economy, if we compare it with a car, can put new doors, replace tyres, repair electronics, but if the engine doesn't work as it is, the car won't become better. In other words, today's vote is not only about the Riga City Council, its dismissal, but only essentially... for a handful of politicians, it is a vote on the future of Latvia, and I call on you to adopt it today. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U387	Honourable Members! Members Strīķe, Dzintars, Pavļuts, Bondars and Latkovskis are asking to continue the Saeima sitting without interruption until the examination of the draft law “Law on the dismissal of Riga City Council”. Do Members have objections? ( Milestones.) Please call me! We will vote for the Saeima sitting to continue without interruption until the examination of the draft law on dismissal of Riga City Council! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 57, for - 26, for - 1. We're going on without a break. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U388	Dear colleagues, Minister! I would like to thank Mr Puce for his openness. To be honest, I did not expect the last part of it to be compared. Well, perhaps some things can even agree, Mr. Puce. But, you see, there's such an interesting thing in our country. If you spoke here without saying that it is about Riga's idea, then people could think very easily that you are talking about the country, about your government and about the coalition. What is... How big is this difference? So, Mr Pouce, of course, the question is: "A, what are you offering specifically?" Are you exactly the person who is ready... which is ready for Riga... so to say, to take power and bring it to the light, as your colleague said, to a prosperous European city? Is it ready to do this by any of your colleagues in this group? No one has said ready yet, no one! Just decided, Mr. Pouce. And what exactly do you offer to Rigaers? ‘ Let's go, Nile!” Is that so? ‘ Latviska Riga!” Is that so? There is no such offer. But okay, now at... Colleagues, to case! Here Mr. Pūce (at least in the first part of his speech) has tried to show himself as such a professional, neutral, objective Minister of Local Government Affairs, who has found violations of laws in the activities of a particular municipality and is now proposing that the Saeima dismiss this municipality. But, colleagues, for that... I think no one in our country believes this and can not believe it, because Mr. Puce himself participated in municipal elections in the same Riga, participated with the slogan “Gāžam Nilu!” - No, Mr. Pouce? He then spent a couple of years in opposition, just like there are several people here. I so realized that this experience has traumatised them very much. So, Mr Pouce, you cannot be seen as a municipal case for this neutral and objective supervisor. You are an interested party. So what is going on here looks more like a political process where a party that has lost one vote in other elections now organises just a bad political settlement at municipal level. That version must also be, and that is the case. Well, it's... It's quite the same as the facts. If we look at that court, so how does that court look, then imagine it's the court where the prosecutor is the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, who himself is an interested party, participated in the elections, lost... His party intends to take part in the next elections. So... Go on. In this trial, at least in the part of the government, the party to the trial, even as I understood, was not allowed to sit in the government. Why, Mr. Pouce? What is this about court proceedings, where you do not even give the Riga City Council the opportunity to defend itself, to speak up in defence? The Riga City Council, as it told us today at the committee meeting, did not even submit this draft law as such... Who's this court? Which court does not even give an opportunity to get acquainted with the charge? Go on. You say that the Riga City Council, let us accept, has violated the law. But you yourself, Mr. Pouce, have violated the law as a government minister. You have violated the law on medical salaries, you have not complied with the decision of the Saeima on the termination of the OIC, you (Interface.) ... You're... Without inviting the Riga City Council, the municipality, to their government sitting, you have violated the law “On Local Government”. So... then it turns out that you too... We need to lay down our minister's mandate, Mr. Pouce! Go on. Colleagues! We're here... It's for us... What does it look like, the whole process? So the government takes a decision on Tuesday, and it is already on Wednesday at that extraordinary meeting that all this is passed on to the commissions. Which commission is it being handed over? Not the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, which is usually responsible for the profile, but the Commission for Budget and Finance (tax). Why? Because the opposition in this commission is currently less than one Member. If there were fewer members of the Foreign Affairs Commission, then it would probably come to the Foreign Affairs Commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele–Lunova: “No, for the Sports Commission!” ) Or perhaps in the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. ( Internouncing call.) The Constitution contains a specific article on the formation of commissions. Do you think colleagues that the Constitutional Fathers thought they could direct any draft law to any commission? Is there not a violation of the Satversme as such in substance here? Let's go. We are told here that there has been some ambitious discussion and that everything has been heard. It just doesn't correspond to the truth, colleagues! This simply does not correspond to the truth. We Members of the Commission were also unable to understand whether or not certain violations of the law had occurred. This could not be understood either by the Legal Office. On a direct question to the Legal Bureau whether the Office can confirm whether, in their view, the specific article of the law in question, the particular paragraph was infringed, the Legal Bureau replied in the negative: no. That's not... That the Legal Office has not seen such facts as to allow such conclusions to be drawn. Thus, in essence, everything we have is that Minister Puce criticises Riga Municipality for failing to act on the organisation of the disposal of waste. The Riga City Council answers: no, no inaction, we have done it, it and it. The Minister says: no, what you have done is not enough. Colleagues, it is very difficult here to see if there has been or has not been a violation of the law. Then the majority of the committee simply proposes: debate, debate to end and to start voting, and after the vote it also takes such a decision! Consequently, there was no debate in substance. What's said here... Mr. Stein said from the mall, he doesn't. Mr Stein himself, by the way, has not asked any questions at this committee meeting, something that is absolutely clear to him in this very difficult legal case. That's why, colleagues... Oh, and, by the way, my fellow Members, there is no word of corruption here. Not a word! So you, the coalition, have told the Riga Council about corruption, corruption, corruption for a whole year. You too, Mr. Pouce... You've all told me. Why, then, is there no word for corruption in this argument? Is it then that you deceived the public about this corruption? Why is it not forgiven by the Riga City Council because of corruption? I would understand something then. If you are talking about corruption, then dismissal for corruption. ( Minister J. Pūce: “Look at the order where Ushakov is suspended! ” ) But now? There is corruption in the Riga City Council, but there is some kind of waste crisis. Well... It's not quite logical, colleagues. So sum up, colleagues. Everything here is felt for absolutely white threads. The reasons are political. There is no waste crisis, or what is - it is artificially created and invented. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Malt: “There is! Riga itself demanded an emergency!” ) you needed an emergency. ( Dep. J. Iesalnieks: “The Riga Treasury is empty!” ), and I think it is absolutely clear to the whole of society. Some of the public regrettably believe that this must be achieved - 'Gāž Nilu!' - using any methods. Also illegal. Unfortunately, some of the society seems to think so. It also considers the majority in this coalition. But, as I said before, this route is more important than the destination, colleagues. What has been achieved by illegal methods would not be living for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U389	The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U390	Dear colleagues, The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development decided to encourage the release of Riga City Council, because, according to the Ministry, the local authority had not been able to perform one of the autonomous functions of the municipality - to ensure the management of municipal waste. The draft law provides for the dismissal of the Riga City Council and the appointment of a temporary administration in the administrative territory of the city of Riga in the composition of three persons, disapproving issues, including financial issues, regarding the rights and duties of the temporary administration. The draft law establishes that the elections of Riga City Council take place on the first Saturday, which becomes effective two months after the entry into force of this law. I believe that the draft law must be justified and well prepared so that, in the event that the said law will be assessed by the Constitutional Court, it would be consistent with constitutionality and it would be certain that all legal aspects have been respected and all procedures have been correct. I think this is a very bad practice - to change the general norm at a time when we think about a particular situation. Such one-off cases often look bad, even very bad, wrong and legally incorrect. I believe that the draft law on the dismissal of Riga City Council drafted by the Ministry lacks sufficient legal arguments. And I will use only legal arguments in my speech, not political arguments. The dismissal of a citizen's elected representative is regarded as a restriction of the will of the voters, a very serious restriction on the rights of the municipality. In order to allow for an objective assessment of the draft law prepared by the VARAM, it is also necessary to assess the information included in the annotation, its compliance with the principles of law, in particular the principles of equality and proportionality. There is insufficient legal argumentation in the case of violation and non-compliance of re-laws of the Riga City Council, annotation does not provide an assessment of whether the Riga City Council, taking into account the events of recent months, could or could not effectively resolve in the future issues related to the organisation of the municipal waste management function in accordance with the requirements of regulatory enactments. In any case, I am not convinced that all the possibilities and all the instruments have been exhausted to resolve this situation without dismissal. It is not clear whether the objectives - organization of the municipal waste management function in the administrative territory of Riga city according to regulatory enactments - can not be achieved by other actions. Therefore, I believe that we need to find out quickly whether the right action is chosen for the case in question. And I do not understand why this draft law was given urgency. Moreover, the annotation does not provide a vision of how the interim administration will effectively resolve the organisation of the municipal waste management function. Go on. Riga City Council was given the opportunity to express its views on the draft law prepared by VARAM only today during the sitting of the Parliamentary Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Representatives of Riga City Council in Government sitting - in person! - were not heard. This is a violation of good law if someone does not know. I don't think you know. Moreover, no opinion of the municipality was found at the government meeting in the e-portfolio of the Cabinet. I think that consistent action by the Ministry of National Defence and Regional Development is necessary when comparing the case of Riga City Council with that of other municipalities. This is something I hope to expect, because other municipalities violate the law, and we all know it. Currently, only the activities of the Riga City Council in the area of waste management are evaluated, but almost no assessment is provided for the activities of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development as the Ministry supervising municipal activities. By the way, there is no political opposition to the extraordinary elections of the Riga City Council or to the new term (Interjection.) allow to work until the current municipal elections. Listen carefully! (Laughter) “Conciliation” does not support amendments to the law, which would allow Riga’s intention to elect for a longer term than the usual four years, namely for five or more years. These amendments are, in my opinion, an expression of disrespect for the people of Latvia, and we cannot support them and will not support them. WELCOMES and other colleagues, opposition, are currently preparing their response steps not only on the issue of the draft law on the dismissal of Riga City Council, but also on amendments to the law, which is intended to increase the term of election of municipal councils to five years. But perhaps they will be challenged in the Constitutional Court, because both approaches, in my opinion, are not based on either the Constitution or other laws. By the way, in the debate on this draft law, I see the benefits as well. It is clear that this document also has a broader role to play in encouraging other municipalities to comply with the law. Because there are, of course, cases where municipalities do not comply with the law. Thus, under the Law on Municipalities, there are grounds to dismiss other municipalities as well. I will vote against this draft law because I do not see that the Riga City Council is not dealing with waste management. No exceptional situation in this area is visible or noticeable. I would also very much like to clarify what the rapporteur said. This report was very incorrect and not true. I explained what Martin Stein said... on the Legal Office of the Saeima, in particular. If you want to talk and prepare for laziness, then... This is something you need to change, Mr. Stein. I invite you to prepare carefully for the event. You're only working on the first term. And that's my advice to you. ( Internouncing call.) So... Listen carefully, especially to you. A representative of the Saeima Legal Bureau, who you said nothing about or even lied from the Saeima Tribunal today, – Edvins Danovskis – warned before the final decision of the Commission that if the case came to the Constitutional Court, the Saeima would not be able to defend its decision, because the concrete violations of Riga City Council law were not sufficiently assessed and discussed before the first reading. Therefore, the representative of the Legal Bureau, Danovskis, recommended that the commission not direct the draft law now for the first reading. (Applause) Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U391	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U392	I realize it's a late evening, I really want to go home and relax after hard work. In the previous term, Mr. Nanozol was sitting here, who opened his speech with the words “Brothers and Sisters!” I'm not going to start my speech here with such words, because we're neither brothers nor sisters... Unfortunately. ( Internouncing call.) We are not even opponents, because each other, especially those on the right of me, considers us to be enemies rather than thinkers. And it's a very pitiful and dangerous position, because we are all Latvian citizens, we all love this land, and we all fight to make life here more beautiful, better, more consistent, more normal and so on. That's not what we're talking about. (Interface: Only in all foreign policy votes - for Russian interests!) ) I will say that you can run away as far as you want. I would invite you to go out of the podium, to speak out of the podium - so that yours (interface.) words should be recorded on the vernacular so that your slogans remain in history. Juris Puce is very humanist, and I will not hide it, but to be honest, since he has served as a minister... Here, too, is the tendency that often people also find themselves in need of fire, water, and water. , cups and so on. The problem is elsewhere. Talking about cases of dismissal of Riga City Council. Well yes, maybe really in every municipality has its own dome with its own utches and its own problems, each dome can find a number of things that are refutable, which may not satisfy the population, which does not satisfy politicians. But in this case we only talk about the Riga City Council, the capital city. We're talking about dome failure. By the way, the lawyer mentioned corruption cases, scandals in Riga traffic, other organizations and so on, and so on. Yes, it can really be found in any municipality. That's it! Even if we're talking about waste. We have 19 municipalities that do not comply with the requirements of the law, including the requirements of the Law on Public Procurement when working in the field of waste. The question is, why do we have different approaches to the capital and other municipalities? I am not talking about the fact that there are no problems in the management of Riga or elsewhere, this is the case. But it would be good if the Ministry, when monitoring the work of municipalities, took... when analysing their work, take into account all considerations in general, adding opinions of the State Audit Office on audits, adding other – even criminal cases, which also appear in one other municipality. Today, here we need to talk about the dismissal of Riga City Council as a matter of urgency. Why? Because someone really wants an extraordinary election. As far as urgency is concerned, I said that this issue is not clear and understandable from the point of view of the outcome. No one can be proud today of the fact that he has a victory in this election - whether it will be for five or six years, or for one year, or otherwise. We are juggling with democratic principles, with everything else. The only thing that has not been said today, either in a ministerial address or in a presentation by the committee responsible - what is the attitude of Rigans towards the actions and movements planned by the Saeima? How do the Rigans assess this case? Then some of the debates that were on public television showed that the Rigas were rather sceptical about politicians' settings in this case, and perhaps not without reason. You know, it would be very good to apply it, let's say, to your life experience. I remember very well that in the very long past, when I was elected as Vice-President of the Riga City Council in 2001, the newspapers were full of the headings “Now in Riga the Red Flags” and “Now in Riga will speak only Russian”. It was. That's history! But even in those times, none of the politicians represented in the Saeima, nor the Cabinet of Ministers, even thought, intended to dismiss Riga's thought simply because they did not like that time... the elected ruling coalition. It is true, it is our recent history. That is why I think that this is not just about the draft law that we are talking about today; it is about what we all treat our country, the capital of our country. That is very important, it is very important. It creates the image of Latvia and Riga in the world. Don't forget it! ( Internouncing call.) I call for this draft law not to be supported at either first or second reading. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U393	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U394	Good evening, honourable colleagues! I had the honour of working with Sergey Dolgopolov at the Riga Council as a Member from 2001 to 2005. It wasn't that easy, too, then others... The nationalist parties were also dissatisfied with the fact that we, the People's Accord Party, together with the social democrats came to power. Now, maybe it's a success story... on how our party together with the party “Fair to Serve Riga!” served in Riga for 10 years. Ten years! That's... Only the former Mayor of Riga Armitstead, whose monument stands at the National Opera and Ballet of Latvia, can be compared. But it was 130 years ago. It is not possible to compare what was 130 years ago and what was happening now. What has been done in those 10 years? What was the Riga City Council 10 years ago, when it came to power “The Accord” (or Ušakov - what do you like)? What was the budget? There was a great debt, unfortunately. The debt has been reduced, and very many kindergartens and schools have been renovated and renovated. You see how much playfield has also been built! Gian (The Head of the sitting knocked down with a hammer.) at schools, they're lit up in the courtyards; there kids can play out and... be healthy. Special sports centres at Riga schools like Krišjānis Baronas Park, at 80th school and at Imants School. These are huge sports centers, where many young people and young children gather in the evening. Yes, of course, managing a large farm with a budget of one billion is not easy, especially if you are disturbed all the time. And then maybe special procurement procedures that you can mention there... with “Riga Transport”... But I would like to ask you: a do you not remember that scandal when it was “Fatherland and Freedom” under the authority of the Riga City Council? The scandals with Daimler-Chrysler for the first Mercedes buses in Riga have still not been completed... Still there, gentlemen? So that we remember that even then the Riga City Council was not fired, there were no thoughts like that! But Riga transport remained more comfortable for Rigans, for disabled people and for everyone. The trampolines drive faster, they are much more comfortable. But in other countries where the city serves as the capital of the country, the state allocates 20 percent of its budget. Here, in Latvia, Riga pays 20 percent of taxpayers' taxes every year... from Riga, Riga, taxpayers... funds to the national educational fund, which then... Where are you going? They don't know. The problem there was, which I can also mention, that a large row on kindergartens. Ladies and gentlemen, all children living outside the city of Riga cannot now be welcomed by Riga. I'm sorry... where does not count Riga, where it does not pay taxes in Riga, a is paid in Ķekava, Balozija and other districts, which will count as the richest municipalities after Riga. Also built in those years and renovated many... all theatres belonging to the city of Riga... beautiful, well repaired after those huge years... What you didn't do when you were in power, we did it, and it also requires money. You can mention a scandal about those streets - Krišjānis Baronas, Valdemars - that do not go so easily. But it's your fault, because we in Latvia, unfortunately, have no employees who can do it in a short time... The special terms of the competition are also... We've got Chuck Street standing up... has not been repaired because nobody wants to go there because there needs to be a lot of investment. Please, the state can take part in it, but, no... For breaking bridges... Yes, it is. Do we have all the bridges in the country... Is that so? We only started to repair Jurmala highway this year. For 30 years, no money had been invested there! The Pskov highway, too. Only one stage was repaired in a few years and now. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Kols: “Where is the border of Riga? What other highway in Jurmala?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ It’s not Riga... It's your duty, sir! And then... Because... You write in verse 5... provide by law that managers and members of the administration are allowed to combine their positions with those from which they came. Well, the city of Riga is huge, it's not a political organ that you think you're making politics there. It is an economic activity - for public transport to go, for heat to be, for public utilities to be available to all Rigans. We need to prevent all its accidents, all communication... there are trubs below the streets in Riga. I cannot imagine how those people, such as State Secretary VARAM, can connect two posts. Perhaps, Mr. Pouce, you have nothing to do with it in the Ministry if the State Secretary can work in the Riga City Council? Do you think it is to come for one hour, sign the papers, and all - can go on to your job? That's not the case. And that load, it's supposed to be 3,64, it's about 3,000, as I understand... money. Well, unfortunately, only three political groups here... to those administrators. Two... Somewhere you, gentlemen... You disappeared somewhere. Some also disappeared as in the port board of Riga and Ventspils. Haven't been in power... and now you've taken it out. The question is also - since the budget of Riga has been approved, divided and we are at the end of the year, from which means will you take the coefficients - 3.64, 3.2 and 2.55? I call for this draft law not to be supported, and I myself will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U395	Name to Member Viktor Valain. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U396	Colleagues, before I start, I would like to say, well, the principle is one, and I think everyone will join in that any municipality, in accordance with the laws in force, would be forgiven if it violates the law, does not respect anything. Most importantly, any municipality deserves to be released in an appropriate manner, respecting all requirements and norms of the law. Let's start with how the draft law has reached us. Of course, the whole process started, someone started talking... Well, let's... this wave has begun, and on this wave everyone is gradually climbing over, and now the process has gone, and now it is no longer to be stopped. But yet, if once the process has gone... we all know the many scandals in the Riga City Council that have happened. Couldn't it really be possible to prepare this bill of dismissal so that it would meet any requirements of the law and that it would not be... Now it's become... Very, very high probability that the Saeima will lose in the Constitutional Court. Unfortunately, the Saeima... And here I am talking about all of us... opposition, position - we are all the same. The family is. And it's very bad if there's a high risk that the Saeima will lose. And here we go... the fact that the bill itself is already at the moment the first concerns emerge... and first concerns appeared in the government already when the National Chancellery pointed out that there was a lack of legal assessment. Colleagues! What happens next? The opinion of Riga City Council is heard with great distress. And then - it is pointed out that this evaluation must be carried out by the Saeima; then the Saeima will be the one to evaluate. It has already entered into the government so that the Saeima takes a final decision on any issue in which any discussion takes place. Give it back to the Saeima: let them already there then decide on the matter! But when does this question come to the Saeima? First thing. It is proposed to move this issue... From the committee responsible - the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government in which I work - I think (I could not blame any of the Members who have been working there for a long time)... and has an understanding of municipal cases, an understanding of municipal issues, - this issue is transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which has no connection with municipal issues. Of course, this is clear to everyone: the political situation, the distribution of votes, the problems of the coalition. Towards the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. But also in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission... In the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, I think there would be no such question... but on the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, I understand that this debate has been about everything - about and around. But the main tasks that this commission had to carry out, unfortunately, have not been fulfilled. And I am very sorry that the rapporteur of the committee responsible does not argue on behalf of the Commission about the main thing that has now been written in all the notes... The rapporteur, who reported on behalf of the commission responsible, forgot to say that. But I'll get there. The commission responsible had to assess the violation of the law... If any of these events occur. Of course, there is the Ministry's opinion, and of course, in this case, when the government itself said that the Saeima had to assess whether or not it had been, then the Saeima also had to evaluate it. Appreciate infringement, assess... and, most importantly, to assess the arguments of Riga City Council in this case as well. The question is, is it what the responsible minister, Puce... The question is, could the Riga City Council avoid this? And here I have to say what... Unfortunately, Mr Pouce deliberately avoids this being said in the context of this unfortunate waste management agreement... It is already clear that not only the inhabitants of Riga will suffer; all residents of Latvia will suffer because of the mistakes made. Currently VARAM together with Riga City Council worked on these rules, this contract worked together, it was not just Riga City Council. The Riga City Council worked together with the Ministry of Finance and institutions subordinate to it and the MoEPRD and institutions subordinate to it. And the question is, was this violation, which is being accused by Minister Puce, possible to be prevented? Did you consider this in the committee responsible? I think that this aspect has not been fully assessed by the committee responsible, in an appropriate manner. The question is: if it was possible to avoid or could not be avoided, will the dismissal of the Council change something in this situation? Or, when we come to the new council... and here, my fellow Members, I would ask you to abstract from the stories of a better life for the Rigas, but in essence... Whether when the new term comes, let alone the fact that they will tell about international competitions and yet all kinds of things, or the new term is something in essence... Not to talk about details, but in essence, will you do something differently? Are these newly elected Members... Whoever they are: whether any of them here in the Saeima, those who sit down, or any other external political power that is not represented in the Saeima... Could their actions take this process further in any other way? Was this question, which is one of the main issues that the Commission was supposed to assess, examined by the Commission? I don't think so. The question also why so much the government avoided the argument of the Riga City Council when it decided on the government for reasons beyond my grasp. This is not understandable to me so far and suggests that this draft law is prepared... is politically motivated. Colleagues, I think this is the case... Today you are in power. Today, you have every opportunity to vote, you have a majority, you have come together, you have Members, you have 50 plus votes, and you can vote for it. The Saeima can all, the Saeima can vote everything, any intention to forgive, no matter - Daugavpils... Something's not gonna happen... there is also a representative of the ‘Interface’. Forgive Daugavpils City Council! Let's find the basis. Colleagues! I think this is a very dangerous precedent that the Saeima is doing, and this is, in my opinion, a very high level of power. Because it is true that you have started much of the elections and lost it, and now, through the political situation, you want to come to power with political instruments. In a democratic country, this is unacceptable, and in a democratic country, colleagues, the struggle for power is taking place in elections. No matter how it happens, it happens every four years. If someone wants to use these instruments that have been given to the Saeima at the Ministry's disposal on the issue of the dismissal of the Council, then there must be and treat with respect those who you forgive, because in this case you and absolute, let us say, disrespect the Riga Council and all the inhabitants of Riga because the reason to forgive... Unfortunately, I do not see this here. Colleagues, at the moment when you talk about corruption, bad governance and, God only knows what all kinds of violations, I join many of those things, and I also believe that Riga is not well managed and Riga City Council deserves dismissal. But legal dismissal, properly prepared dismissal. At the time when the State Chancellery indicated that something is wrong here, colleagues that the draft law was not legally prepared, Riga City Council gave its rebuttal. You have not assessed these arguments by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission in substance. And that led to what the rapporteur did not say in his report. What is written about in all the news is that the Saeima's Legal Office (in my opinion, the only neutral in this situation!) with full responsibility (I think they were aware of its consequences and the importance of their views!) stated that there were no grounds for voting in favour of this draft law at first reading. Colleagues! This is a very serious argument. I think that if you hear such an argument... It's hard for me to imagine how politicians... you can simply cross a question of such importance and hope that the Parliament's prestige will not suffer from it? The prestige of the Saeima will suffer in the most direct way, because they will be you; the Saeima Presidium will later look for a lawyer's office that will go and represent the Saeima, because as far as I understand, the Saeima's Legal Office will not do so. This assessment... Well, we could still work in the evening until 11 a.m. or 12 p.m.... no matter how long it takes, in the morning to come... You could have done it to the end, until the Saeima Legal Bureau says that at least conceptually is okay and that we can vote for this. But you have not done three basic things in the responsible Commission - the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. I believe that this draft law is tabled in violation of any fundamental democratic principles. These three things, in my opinion, are not being respected. First of all, with regard to that... Was it possible to prevent the infringement in which VARAM itself participated for years? Was it possible for the Riga City Council to avoid this? In my opinion, there was no way out of this. The question is, will the newly elected do something differently? They too will be able to tell them what they want, about international competitions and even more they know what they will not be able to do anything else.... The only reason... reason why this draft law has been tabled (and I remain with this position, which I mentioned at the beginning!) , is only that there are about 175 gambling halls in Riga, the closure of which is currently on the agenda of the Riga City Council. Development/About! sponsors are gambling business lobby, and Development/About! , I think want to keep the gaming halls in Riga. This vote is just about gambling medicines! Colleagues! I call for 'no' and respect for our legislation.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U397	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U398	Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Minister! The world has a law of energy immortality - what you give, it's what you get against. And often... politics has already seen that decisions are made under the influence of the authorities, which are themselves suffering. And if it were only at a private level and only affected by our pockets, reputation, career, as individual Members or Ministers, it could also be a mistake. Well, in a way, puns also teach you to become smarter. But unfortunately, with the adoption of such a law... we risk not only our individual pocket, reputation or position; we risk violating the rule of law of the state, with state funding and undermining the reputation of the state administration, because it is likely that if really the law is adopted in the version that is currently the case, there will be judicial proceedings in the country - there will be constitutional proceedings - and the state will lose. Such conclusions arise not only by reading the annotation and content of the draft law, but... particularly, following today's discussions in the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax), where the opinion of the Bureau of Legal Affairs really played an important role. Mr Danovsky stressed for his part that, yes, it is a bill that is not typical of the Saeima. And that is why the procedural aspect is particularly important. And especially because the examination of this draft law at the Cabinet of Ministers violated Section 87 of the Law “On Municipalities” – no opinion of the municipality was asked in writing or in person, orally. Then the entire decision load and the discussion in essence move to the Saeima. And Mr Danovsky also mentioned the factors or principles that must be taken into account when deciding on this draft law. And Mr. Stein made it quite precise... that violations of the law or of any other regulation must be detected... that they must be repeated, existing... that this action will prevent the infringement from being a last resort. A few other factors. This should have been a qualitative discussion on the substance. And, colleagues, there is no one in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission right now. It didn't happen because it was two minutes before the beginning of the Saeima sitting... Despite the fact that not all arguments were taken into account and discussed in essence from the Latvian Municipal Union, from the municipality itself, nor was it possible to hear the views of the Ministry itself and the opinion of the Legal Bureau, even the Members were not given the opportunity to ask all questions in essence. We could not conclude from many points of view even on this: there is or there is a violation of a specific law, and there is also factual evidence of it. Mr Danovska also pointed out that it was not possible to assess whether any norms had been violated as soon as the discussion had taken place, because only the statement had been made, the facts were not at our disposal, and the Legal Bureau was not at its disposal. There is no fact at all - I can assure you. That's one thing about the process. The other one, too, is by nature. One of the essential principles is indeed the question of whether the dismissal of a council is a last resort and whether it will resolve the situation in substance. I think one of the principles on which we are not even able to discuss is that, while you are released, the waste problem that you mentioned will already be resolved by nature, because opening up offers is at the beginning of the year and the choice of managers will be decided by a council that will not yet be released. So what are you going to do at this point? Will you, as the US Government, remove the Riga City Council from the list of sanctions? Will you cancel the decision to dismiss the Council? Will the situation be resolved in substance? If at the moment this municipal administration, which, by the way, does not work for a long time... and I assume that this is also one factor that should be taken into account when assessing how much could or could not be done in this short time, and whether any other superman would have done better than this municipality's management. It is important to take into account whether the three people who will be placed under the temporary management of the municipality will be able, by nature, to deal with the issue of waste and all the other daily economic issues that must be ensured under the management of the municipality. Three people - State Secretary of VARAM, Head of Legal Department of the Ministry of Finance and Head of Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice. I believe that merging this task with its direct job responsibilities in the ministries that are maintained for them cannot, in principle, be achieved. I do not know, maybe the State Secretary of VARAM is not working, the Ministry is not running, but I know that Mr. Liepiņš, Head of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Finance, is working and even very, very much, remaining after working hours and the beak is dealing with his basic duties. Where else to lead Riga City Council! It's not serious! I would like to conclude by returning to where I started again - if Mr. Pūce, along with this draft law, put his tooth or at least a little finger of the left hand in the pledge, that there will be no Constitutional Court and the state of Latvia will not lose it, then you could think about it. Otherwise, I think that you are simply pursuing your political ambitions in a rude way, not thinking about the people of Riga, nor about the reputation of the public administration as a whole. I therefore believe that this law cannot be supported in this form at present. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U399	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U400	Dear colleagues, Dear Mr. Pouce! I understand that you do not want to listen to what Members of the opposition are now saying. I’m not at all (Minimum: “There’s nothing new there!” ) does not repeat the arguments that have already been made here. I just want to ask you, Mr Pouce, the same questions that I asked your party member, Mr Pavlut, today. Do you really believe that there is at least one person in this hall who really believes that Riga City Council is being fired because of the removal of waste? Do you really think people are so naive? Do you think that outside this medicine, you will find some people who believe in it? I think, yes, some will be happy because - long ago you should have got those Russians out of the dome! But none of them shall believe that you do this for the sake of the waste. It is quite clear to everyone that this is a completely artificial excuse. Who will believe in that dung excuse?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'm sorry. You talked for so long, and thank you for being so open. We can see... see very clearly how dissatisfied you are that you - so wise and good - cannot roll in Riga City Council. You still have this complex since the opposition. You are simply not used to working in opposition, and you are indignant that some others are sitting there and making decisions. I'm a Rigaman with more than 50 years of age. Well, there's no crisis! And, Mr. Pouce, you never tried to write horror movie scenarios? You would certainly succeed because the natural disasters that you described here - well, it can really frighten perhaps many people who do not live in Riga, because the Rigans know what is happening. I was also a member of the Riga City Council, and I know how it happened there. I will not repeat what Mr Klementyev said: real corruption, real court judgments. There was never a talk about the dismissal of Riga City Council. This is an excuse, and people see it and understand it very well. You're lost in the square, and now you want to reclaim in the wardrobe, because there's not enough time left. Come on, let's go! I think that it is a purely political thing for us, because your people will not solve anything there; it may be that they will be able to help some sponsors there, but not more. And you will lose again. There are, of course, no arguments. And if you really listened honestly to what my colleagues say from the opposition, you would understand... Well, that... then that, sorry, well, does not withstand any criticism. But if you're in a coalition now and quickly, you're going to get it out of the way until someone has thought about it before someone leaves it... Well, that's how your coalition works. There's nothing to do with such a tough company. But don't think that really people believe you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U401	Name to Member Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U402	Good evening, again! I was rather ashamed at the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission today that our capital has been so far off that it has to be encouraged to lay off. I did not ask questions, because the officials convinced me. I am convinced by everything I see in Riga every day. Unlike my colleague, Vjačeslav Dombrovskis, I am reading annotations of the draft law and documents that are available to all Members. I base my opinion and decision on these documents. And I would also like to point out that the opinion of Riga City Council was briefly expressed... only briefly stated the chairman of Riga City Council, but for the most time spoke a tied lawyer. Irrespective of the fact that in the commission... At the meetings of the Commission, the director of the legal administration of Riga City Council, as well as the head of the environmental management department of the Housing and Environment Department, were all present. These two officials of Riga City Council even refused their opportunity to argue and explain the events again. I had enough of what I read in the annotations and in the documents. I was convinced by the legal assessment made by VARAM. There were both facts and arguments on which... which officials, a large part, repeated several times. To say that there are no facts and irregularities, forgive me, is to say nothing. If further details are needed, this can certainly be done at second reading. I regret that Juris Pūce as Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development is not longer than 11 months, because I think Riga's thought about violations should have been dismissed yesterday. For years, suspicions have been about a number of violations. How many opinions of the State Audit Office are not available? I very much hope that we will still see and experience who will be responsible for Riga schemes in foundations, whose use of funds has been questioned by the State Audit Office. Our capital deserves much better governance and calls for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U403	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U404	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Members! Today, before the last meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, I had a conversation with... I even accept... one of the 10 best Latvian lawyers. And I ask what exactly happens today legally? I said, “I think you’re ruining the reputation of lawyers.” To whom he answered me quite objectively: “No, you are ruining the reputation of the Saeima, not we are legal.” This issue of the dismissal of the Council, which is on the agenda today, is, of course, nothing new. I had a third encounter with it. Since 2003, I have been more or less present in Parliament, and I was also the Minister of Local Government Affairs at that time. Just like now, Mr. Pūce, I was extremely tempted to release the Riga City Council in 2005. I still had a press secretary who always wanted to make such a fighter from me that... Well, so to speak, you'll be well elected if you do it well. Violations were... Well, no less, because this, let's say... it must have some purely irreparable tradition of Riga City Council... I can really say with a clear conscience that there has not been anything like that in Valmiera, and I hope it will not be in the near future either. ( Internouncing call.) Yes, but then, looking at everything, I understood very well that it was “too short”. I can, of course, come with that call for forgiveness, but I won't... The next time I faced dismissal... was Minister Gerhard. The elections were coming, and the Minister, with the support of all others, including the coalition, brought this message once again that we would release the Riga City Council. Then it was clear... before the elections. I called the lawyers who... Indeed, there was Top 10 in Latvia (not I am a lawyer), and they put it in points -, there is or not. Whatever I wanted, I realized that maybe two people could sit here where the ZZS is sitting more... because it's extremely hard to fire someone... the biggest... Riga... the largest local government in Latvia, but since they said... including the current Head of the Legal Bureau, which with... I think that the Legal Bureau has indeed done a great deal of work today, standing in its position as lawyers and maintaining the reputation of its Latvian lawyers, unlike what the majority of the Saeima is doing today. Then I also publicly said: “It is “too short”. We cannot refer to the 2014 irregularities, whatever we wish." But I really did not have any arguments, ladies and gentlemen, when one of the journalists informally asked me: “What do we do with them... How can we release those dungs?” To what, of course, I said, “Well well, then look for something!” But that cannot be the case if something happens, if we know. This cannot be justified if it is not put together in points. In time, when it did not ignore the parliamentary roll of order and the existing legislation, the legislator had already placed enough obstacles to not being so easy to release... Maybe they're too complicated... Maybe as practice shows... Maybe that law, the local government law, needs to change something, but now the law is what it is. And whatever I want to fire... Well, I think now... Also... I listened to the entire record of what was said by the spokesperson of the Saeima Legal Bureau in the Commission. Well, I think it is necessary to agree that we will enter into a very unpredictable situation after a year and a half - when the Constitutional Court newly elected opinion... There will, of course, be elections. Well, as far as it is concerned, it will. But then there will be a question: where to put those who have been suspended? Then there will be a lot more questions. And it will be a great chaos. And next, that's the point why we, too,... The STECF does not, in fact, support this dismissal. Because I feel that way... I've read all Jack London about those harsh times in Alaska and... ice... gold-seekers... Well, because it was... the biggest concern was... There was a great role played by those who helped people -- dogs that drew everywhere... They were the greatest helpers. And then the question was: what happens when the blood appears? When blood appears, there are very big soaps, because... Yeah... Well, then there's both people and their helpers inescapable. And I feel like now... blood has now appeared. And if we try so intensely to violate all legislation, to elect, to do that... Well, it's like you have to go, you have to go ahead... The last time the situation was similar - when Shleser’s saying “Hit!” appeared. . It was at the time when the law of security here in the same spirit, ignoring what was then... “New time” indicated that there will be soap. They're so... that there will be a referendum. And yet it was like that, even until the night, but we're going to get out of what we've decided. We also cast it out, including my vote. It ended up, as you know well, with... with the fall of government and people on the street... Of course, apart from the fact that... The President brought all these laws back. And I have the feeling that history is receding from time to time. And now with this precedent... not for moral but purely for legal aspects... will be something very similar. Because one is... Of course, we have all the signatures imposed... and the signatures have been imposed this time, not by talking, but really real knowing that we're making... Well, we mean our own roll of order, we love the laws that Parliament has passed. Then there will be a two-month break. And then there's the President's decision. And another point. After the elections, I also had a conversation with the judges of the Constitutional Court, and I did not understand why they said that “our time is now coming.” I asked: “Why is your time? - said: “There is a feeling that the Constitutional Court will have a lot of work.” And I think there are three draft laws going on now, where... the Constitutional Court will really have something to do. That's why I want to think a little bit about it, but... May all of us have a happy future! Merry Christmas and Happy New Year!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U405	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U406	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, I'd like to talk about something else a little bit now... No, no, about the same, but about something else, about what happened in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. I am being criticised here for not having a word in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, someone who had no chance of getting to the word, someone who had been interrupted, or someone had too little time. You know, I would call on those people who do this not to deal with three “M” - lying, misleading and embarrassing - because every meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) was given an opportunity... including the Riga City Council. If the Riga City Council is willing to justify itself, then there is an opportunity to write a letter, and every member of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission received this reply and wrote it. I understand, colleagues, that one is in position and one opposition, but at the moment we decide legal arguments, and when it comes to the procedure: we spent hours in order to be able to justify what they are doing, and not only, including the Latvian Municipal Union. If one of these things tells me now that he or she did not have the opportunity, they are lies, deception and embarrassment.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U407	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U408	Dear President, I will ask for a joint statement...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U409	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection. ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) And? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) Are there objections to merging the two times of the debate? ( The box “Let it speak! ”) ) There are no objections. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Riena: “But Regina promised not to talk anymore! It has already been a happy Christmas!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U410	Can I talk? Thank you. Hello, colleagues! “ Good evening! ” ) Fully accepting the indications that the three “M” letters – MMM – are bad... I accept this, so I will talk about legal arguments. As you know, before the draft law “Law on the dismissal of Riga City Council” came to the Saeima, it was discussed by the Cabinet of Ministers. I will begin with the extent to which the democratic procedure was followed in the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers. As is known, no letter was added to the documents of the Cabinet of Ministers, which was sent from Riga Municipality on 17 December 2019. The size of this letter is 11 pages. I'm gonna kill you just a few... a few pages, because perhaps if I asked Members of the Saeima or at least Members of the Budget and Taxation (Financial) Commission to raise their hands, or if they have all read this letter, I fear that the answer would not encourage either the Saeima or specific political party groups. So I'll quote. ‘ Letter from Riga Municipality of 17 December, addressed to the Cabinet of Ministers. On 17 December this year, taking into account the fact that the Riga City Council was not the moment of this letter’... So on December 17, that's, last night... So on December 17 the Riga City Council was not... “The Riga Council has been informed about the underlying factual and legal arguments of the draft law on the dismissal of Riga City Council, as well as in accordance with the principle of local government... and the principle of good law and Article 87 of the law on local governments, the Riga Council has addressed the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Puce, asking to send the Riga City Council an opinion to submit this draft law. No reply from VARAM was received to the indicated request before this letter was drawn up. Therefore, although the Riga City Council has not had a proper opportunity to express its views on the draft law prepared by VARAM and annotation before examining the matter at the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, we would like to express our initial observations on the unlawfulness of the draft law.” The Riga City Council was still naively hoping that it would be given the opportunity to express its arguments in the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers. No, no, no! As we know from the press, there was no such opportunity for the Riga City Council, it was denied. So I'll read a couple more from this letter. Only legal arguments. No MMM! There we have other specialists. According to the Riga City Council, the best indicator of the fact that the municipality has dealt very well with waste management issues in the territory of Riga Municipality, despite the decision of the Competition Council of 9 September 2019, is that no one in the city has to face the situation that the waste would not be collected and/or exported or that it would not be done in time. In addition, it should be noted that the adoption by the Saeima of the law on the extension of the declared emergency situation by itself collection and disposal of waste in Riga city does not ensure. In any case, local authorities need to take decisive, swift and legitimate action to ensure the collection and export of waste. Seeing the situation on the streets, courtyards, squares and so on, no reasonable person has any doubt that the Riga City Council has successfully coped with it and there is no threat of an anthropogenic disaster, the threat of uncontrolled growth of rodents and other parasites, as mentioned in the annexation of the draft law on the dismissal of the Riga City Council, prepared by the MoEPRD, does not exist. According to the Riga City Council, none of the features mentioned in Section 91, first paragraph, point 1 of the Law “On Municipalities” can be seen at its disposal. Thus there is no reason for the dismissal of Riga City Council, the adoption and promulgation of the relevant law. On page 1 of the draft law, it is stated that when preparing the draft law, Riga City Council's actions were evaluated in order to perform one of the autonomous functions of the municipality - namely, organisation of the waste management function. On page 3 of the annotation there is an indication that “PRAM, according to the regulation stipulated in Article 5 of the Law “On Municipalities”, other state institutions, including the prosecutor’s warning of the State Audit Office, the Special Prosecutor’s Office of Organised Crime and Other Divisions, provided information on various violations in activities of the Council, Riga City Council officials, institutions and capital companies, non-compliance with the principles of good administration.” Taking into account that the annotation of the draft law both directly and indirectly points to the fact that the activities of Riga City Council are assessed in the framework of the draft law “Legislative Dismissal Law of Riga City Council” only in the context of the organisation of the waste management service, it is not understandable what information provided by other state institutions in the field of waste management is mentioned on page 3 of the annexation and how this information is related to the Riga City Council’s actions to organise the implementation of the waste management function. Thus, the Riga City Council cannot give explanations and comments on the information provided by the specified institutions in this regard, nor can it consider whether the indication included on page 3 of the annotation is reasonably related to the Riga City Council's actions in the area of waste management. Thus it is obvious that there are currently no violations of the regulatory enactments on the part of the Riga City Council, which... organizing the implementation of the autonomous function of the municipality in the field of municipal waste management... give the basis for a discussion - even a discussion! - about the need for the dismissal of Riga City Council. When assessing the possibility of applying Section 91 of the Law “On Municipalities”, the following arguments should be taken into account in addition: First. The need to respect the principle of proportionality. Second. The possibility for the temporary administration to change the current situation. Third. Interim management competence. And the fourth. Application of the principle of proportionality. The first point. The need to respect the principle of proportionality. The third paragraph of Article 8 of the European Charter of Local Government states: ‘Administrative supervision of local authorities shall be exercised in such a way as to ensure that the intervention of the controlling authority is proportionate to the importance of the interests to be protected.’ The obligation of the legislator to respect the principle of proportionality is also specified in a number of judgements of the Constitutional Court. As is clear from the annexation of the draft law, it does not try to analyse why, in this situation, when, as indicated above, there are no violations of the laws and regulations governing waste management, it would be reasonable to decide at all on the application of the extreme means of influencing the work of the municipality - the City Council. In the view of the Riga City Council, such action, leading the draft law without any detailed assessment of compliance with the principle of proportionality, is clearly contrary not only to the possibility of applying Section 91(1) of the Law “On Local Authorities”, but also to the Constitutions of the Republic of Latvia and the European Charter of Local Authorities. Second point: The possibility for the temporary administration to change the current situation. In order to recognise a justified dismissal of the municipal council, it should be stated that the appointment of the temporary administration could, but indeed, be able to change the existing situation, an existing infringement, the existence of which, as indicated above, cannot be seen, but should be a clear vision of how the temporary administration, acting as a matter of urgency, could change the situation. As indicated above, when implementing the negotiation procedures and concluding waste management agreements with “Clean R” Ltd., “Eco Baltia envira” Ltd. and “Lautus” Ltd. on 26 and 27 November 2019, the Riga City Council has provided for the examination of the case a suitable solution for the collection of waste in the territory of Riga municipality. On 4 December 2019, the regulation of the open tender procedure for the provision of municipal waste management services in the administrative territory of Riga was approved, which provides that the deadline for the submission of tenders is 16 January 2020. This is before the deadline for ending the declared emergency. Thus, it is not understandable what changes in the field of the organization of municipal waste management could be made to the dismissal of the municipal council and the appointment of the temporary administration, as also the interim administration will be bound by external laws (which provide for the procedure for selecting the manager of municipal waste), including the procedural time limits set in the Law on Public Procurement, as well as the regulation of the waste management law on the validity of concluded agreements. To sum up the above, it should be recognised that it is not possible to ensure the organization of municipal waste management in another way as currently implemented by Riga City Council. The third point. Interim management competence. According to the draft law, the temporary administration would consist of three officials: ‘(1) the head of the temporary administration - Edwin Balševics, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development; (2) the deputy head of the temporary administration - Artis Lapiņš, Director of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Finance; (3) the member of the temporary administration - Aleksejs Remesovs, Deputy Director of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice.’ While not calling into question the competence of any of the designated persons and the capacity of the administrator, it should be pointed out that, in this case, when seeing such significant violations in the organisation of municipal waste management in particular, the management of the interim administration and its composition should include specialists with specific expertise in the field of municipal waste management in order to enable the interim administration to deal effectively and legally with an alleged crisis. However, as can be seen from publicly available information on each of the candidates, these persons are not recognised as specialists in municipal waste management issues. This fact provides additional grounds for the assumption that the draft law is directed not by an urgent desire to solve the real problem of municipal waste management in Riga city, but by a political settlement with the existing composition of Riga City Council. In the view of the Riga City Council, such action cannot be recognised as justified or proportionate to the existing legal and factual... The situation in Riga city is in the field of municipal waste management. And one more question. How many municipalities in Latvia are currently in a position to comply with the Public Procurement Law and Waste Management Law agreements with waste managers? Was the situation of the Riga City Council unique until the signing of the PPP agreement? Latvian citizens need to know that on 6 December this year, Vara sent letters to 19 municipalities... Forgiveness, 20 municipalities with a request... and an indication that these municipalities... these municipalities... several dozen municipalities face problems with the conclusion of agreements on waste management. Thus, the residents of Latvia need to know that the following municipalities are threatened with dismissal: Aizkraukle Municipality Council, Auce Municipality Council, Baldone Municipality Council, Brocēni Municipality Council, Dobele Municipality Council, Dundaga Municipality Council, Durban Municipality Council, Jelgava Municipality Council, Ķeguma Municipality Council, Livani Municipality Council, Livani Municipality Council, Ludza Municipality Council, Madona Municipality Council, Ogres Municipality Council, Rozava Municipality Council, Saldus Municipality Council, Varakļāni Municipality Council, Ventspils City, Viesīte Municipality Council and Zilupe Municipality Council. So we're going, Latvia! And the last one. On how topical the export of waste in Riga is... Does VARAM have no other priority?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In particular, if we look at the latest findings of the State Audit Office this year... For example, let's take a look at how the richness of Latvia, namely peat, is being exploited in Latvia! Is it really not obvious to all the Members sitting here that the situation in this area needs to be corrected urgently? Does that not bother you? Not to mention the fact that the entire Latvian population is being stolen for hundreds of millions of euros with the help of OIC! So that I ask you not to vote in favour of this bill, because it is a shameful Saeima. And, as pointed out by Parliament's Legal Office, there are so many legal grounds in this draft law that it is called into question by the Satversme... contest in the Constitutional Court. So I ask the Saeima whether you would really like to undermine the reputation of this Parliament even further. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U411	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U412	Although an individual seems to be important in politics, the work of the team is much more important, and this concerns both the vote of the Saeima today and, of course... In a way, it can also be praised to the SAVE, who has always managed to hold up as a team, defending their own, using any methods under any circumstances. Whether the people themselves are stunned by corruption scandals or already placed behind bars, the team is always closely united in defending their own. And methods also fit any. Let's remember at the beginning of this year, when in Bolderaya the house ladders were distributed in the premises of the house, where he took Ushakov, dressed in prison clothing, with the logo of the National Association and the inscription "Cause of the Russians". I think this is not just a question of how it is being tried to present various foamy channels. This is, however, a question of quality in the management of Riga. And I understand that many Rigans have not seen something better because of living conditions, but MEMBERS OF THE SAID (Interface: “Golden bridges have seen!” ), who have traveled around the world actively, including Mr Cilevič, have certainly seen how various things have been handled not only in the East but also in the Western countries. Ten years in the management of Riga is a long period. If you look at critical eyes, do you really think that there is a satisfactory situation with how easily the city center can be reached? Do you really think that the inner courtyards, which often look like a chandelier, where the cross-section of the machines and the infrastructure are not developed, are a good example of development? Is the fact that there are so many houses in Riga, many apartment houses that are not warmed up, and nothing is done to improve the technical condition of these houses, houses is a good example? Has something been done to normalise the rental market in Riga over a period of 10 years? It is in a catastrophic situation: young people have to have huge sums to rent, rent, but never get to their home. Can anyone in Riga feel safe during the night or during the day in all Riga microdistricts by just walking on the street? However, should he be careful that at some point someone does not attack or steal anything? What has been done in the course of 10 years in the development of the port? Basic... or, for example, we would use more than one boat on the same route in ferry traffic. Are you really satisfied with the situation that there are so different attitudes towards Latvian citizens? The mother with a child who comes from a small town in Latvia receives much worse treatment and much more expensive services than any drug addict in Riga who has not paid any tax. I think we all want us to be proud of what Riga is like in the future. I do not know what will happen after the forthcoming municipal elections, but I am sure that there will certainly be no worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U413	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U414	Good evening, colleagues! Clearly, the legal arguments... It's just comical what's talking about there. Everyone understands, everyone understands the true causal relationship to the release of Riga City Council, and there is nothing to do with the waste there. It's simply divided into two parts. Some bluff and imagine that they believe in it, others don't need to do it. That too... That's all. Clearly, there is some political obsession with the fact that you will succeed in taking over Riga. As it is said here, I think... As I said today, this is a wrong approach. This fight will be to lose. But a few words about their political background. Just something like that... Some things have fallen out of the discussion. Me too... I'm not Nila Usakova or Andra America Administration in Riga... management in Riga fan, absolutely not, especially in recent years. And I think they've had something... Why is all this so? I think the same thing as here... That power and money, and lack of critical thinking, ignoring any opposition arguments lead to a very fast arrogance that... Well, what's wrong with that. But... Only the difference that Ushakow needed eight years is enough for less than a year. It's such a one-size-fits-all difference. But one nuance is very interesting yet... I understand that you also don't like how Ushakov and America managed Riga. But now Ushakov and America are gone. It does not matter how someone treats it, why they are in Brussels, what they are doing there. “ But the eggs were left! ” ) They are in Brussels. They're... they are in Brussels. But... Do you know what's in place of them? Well, those who's... Those who are in their place are not yet... well, whatever they are, have not really done anything else to show or work. But what is instead of them? What, then, is providing that coalition today? What provides the coalition that is in power at the moment, what do you want to forgive? What, then, provides him? Friends! ( Internouncing call.) Okay. Two of the BIPs - Keish and Clein, if. One of the Developments/About! - A bird. And... How do you say that? ... Long-term candidate of the National Association for the post of mayor - former Minister of Justice Baiba Broka. Listen to me! You are forgiving yourself, you are voting for your own forgiveness today, that is. And I am in favour of my forgiveness, definitely, right!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U415	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U416	Dear colleagues, I would like to add a little to what is possible from a legal point of view... also a little disappeared from the context in this whole story. Today, the Minister tried to tell us such an image... I tell you about a ship in which crew members have had some of their side effects, while the ship is somehow going, so to say, by itself. In principle, the minister spoke of himself in a very prophetic way. Because he's the ship... I don't know, his ministry or he himself... And then he shares them... their personalities - maybe a cook or a captain's assistant... But actually... The truth is that the Minister is currently busy with political games, trying to really clear the area of his sponsors and, using the possibilities of the new party financing law, to take Riga with all the means that have now been allocated to him, thanks to the voter's support, unfortunately. And why do I think so? Because, in principle, the Minister instead of playing his political games, should actually do the things he has to do - well, he has to run the ship, he has to cook, he has to work with the mattresses - but he doesn't do it. He does not arrange the legislation under his Ministry, although it is one of his primary tasks. We, too, at the Commission of Requests this week made sure that the Minister was one of the ministers who had delayed administrative reform. And he didn't even know that some laws even... were not even developed... and released somewhere... to the Cabinet of Ministers meeting. And all the more so if we are talking about this situation in which we are always hearing that there is a waste crisis, that something is wrong. We look at the agenda of the Saeima today, and today's question on the Saeima's agenda is the draft law on "Amendments to the Waste Management Act", which is urgently to be adopted by the Saeima. These are the “Amendments to the Waste Management Act” that were so needed after the end of this emergency situation, but, once again, the Minister was late, he was once again dealing with some side-effects. Because what can we read in public space? September 11 - When for the first time... and domino also today, giving its first... At last the first... the explanations in the present case, pointed out: in a situation where the Competition Council intervenes at such a stage... the dome is not a legislative organ, the dome cannot invent new rules for itself, the dome works with the laws that, for now, dome... the City Council has at its disposal. Therefore, since there is nothing to do in this situation, when hands are tied, the question is, of course,... the request to declare this exceptional situation in order not to leave Rigaers without services. And so that this exceptional situation, in which there is an emergency intervention in a process that the dome cannot influence... so that this exceptional situation is legally arranged, so that there are no several such situations that... which was born in September, Minister Juris Pūce again in the program “Daily personality with Velta Puriņa”... he somehow very often shows up there... announced publicly on 11 September: “We will take advantage of this emergency from the Ministry”... we're talking about the first emergency... "as an opportunity to drive changes in the waste regulatory framework that will ensure both the competitive environment and the management of waste after this three-month period." Dear colleagues, Who has not fulfilled his obligations? Who has taken on these political games then? Who then does not run the ship where that ship has to go? We also read an annotation... Indeed, the annotation of this draft law also states that these regulations are necessary for the adjustment of the temporary legal framework in the territory of Riga municipality in the area of waste management following the end of the government order “On the announcement of an emergency situation in the administrative territory of Riga” supported by the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia... as well as a framework for dealing with emergencies applicable to all emergencies. Well, there's a little delay in this draft law - honourable colleagues, do you not think? I therefore believe that, in this situation, the Minister should come here and explain by whom he had taken up all this time that he missed both the Law on Administrative Responsibility and that law... What was his direct duty... that he had to come to September with this bill here, to the Saeima, and arrange. For we know that the Minister also said in September: “The problem is not in the waste, the problem is in the law.” But today he's forgotten it. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U417	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U418	Dear colleagues, I think I have a recommendation for you on what you should do further with all its rule of law, so to speak, the main officials. I think you need Martins Bondar, a.k.a. “MMM”, to appoint both Prosecutor General and Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. I think he could be excellent in dealing with absolutely all aspects of the rule of law and problems in our country. Lemberg's trial... It's about 10 years. Mr Bondara will be done in a day's time. Minister J. Puce of VARAM: “Preceeded! ” ) He... He will announce in advance that there is, so say, the accused, and give the day to each party to prepare. Okay. One side will, of course, be prepared well in advance. Then the trial will probably take him when he has a lunch break. He'll give you two minutes to the prosecutor, two minutes to the accused, and that's it. Judgment ready! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Malt: “Efficient!” ) What is there now... What are some details there to listen to?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Yes, of course, Mr Bondara as... Both as a prosecutor and as a judge, the judgment has already been known in advance, as is the case with his colleagues, absolutely everyone, the judgment is already known. What's to blame is already known. What to listen to, go into some details, but it's all... It is not at all an uncompromising rule of law; it is simply a rule of law. The rule of law is completely uncompromising! - Other. So... Mr. Bondar! I will remind you of what has really happened in that commission. We have an annotation that we can... I am absolutely sure that no one has read it from this coalition. I'm gonna kill you one part. That is the level of evidence we can say. Okay, the first point is just a lira absolutely. The municipality, the municipal charter, the bla-bla-bla... I guess we need to fill in some number of pages. Second point: The second point... Thus, we have found multiple violations of laws and regulations in areas of activities of the municipality. The violations were committed on several occasions and systematically throughout the period of the elected Riga City Council in the elections of 2017 in local governments. It would be logical to say concrete what these infringements are. Now, listen! ( Internouncing call.) “A number of applications from private individuals, the Ombudsman and the Riga City Council were received to the VARAM, indicating possible violations.” (Laughter) For example, a natural person’s application of 29 July 2019, a natural person’s application of 27 August 2019 (Dep. D. Interdependence of Reizniece-Ozola.) and so on, and so on. It's like... These are the offences! Application level! VARAM has received applications, understand! We asked the Legal Bureau: how do we act in this situation? The letter from the Legal Bureau was as follows: you, honourable Members, have two stages in which you have to work. In the first stage, you need to find out what the direct infringements are about. You need to clarify the facts of these violations. And only when you have detected these violations, talking about specific laws, specific articles of law, parts and so on - only then can you move to the second part - a political evaluation of how serious the violations are. Whether they are enough to release the Riga City Council, and so on. For us, colleagues, during the meeting of the Commission, since there is no such list in the annotation... Here's all that - received at the application level. It took us an hour... We had an hour going to extortion - literally from the representatives of VARAM! - a list of articles. Then we tried to organize the process to tell them what the violation is specifically, to reply to the Riga Council, so that the Legal Bureau would say that it agrees that the violation is. Because the office said they can't say anything. I have tried to do this on several occasions, Mr Bondara! What did you do? You closed the commission meeting. There was no substantive examination. Point. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U419	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U420	However, there are things... I think that the entire composition of the Saeima has already taken a decision as to how it will vote. And regardless of what is happening in this debate, I think this debate is more... one thing is clear: this bill... The law will come to the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court will evaluate it. And this debate, as the rapporteur, Mr Stein, has already pointed out, is in fact already an apology for the judges of the Constitutional Court who will assess this particular situation. And the way in which the legislator makes laws. Of course, looking at the way in which the law is passed through the Saeima, it is absolutely clear that the Saeima Members have not read the letter sent by the President of Latvia, where he points out, as a matter of fact, that the principles of good lawmaking have to be respected and this is a particularly important moment for this. But I would like to talk about the drafters of the law - the VARAM - and their understanding of compliance with the law. Whatever... strangely, in my opinion, VARAM is the only ministry from all ministries, where the minister defends his honour to the end. For example, members of the Saeima approached the Procurement Supervision Bureau... initially - at the Ministry itself, pointing out that the Ministry does not comply with the norms of the Law on Public Procurement. And what's the result? In contrast to VARAM, the Procurement Monitoring Office has, however, listened to and is currently conducting an inspection of your activities. There's a result, we'll see who's right. The Minister's actions regarding Ikšķile municipality - this issue is already assessed by the Constitutional Court. As regards the action of the Minister on the dismissal of the Chairman of the Riga City Council, this issue is in court, and I think it shows that the Minister is not always right and that the activities of this Minister are extreme. They cannot normally be resolved, and they end up either in court or... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Salanist: “Unsatisfied... !” ) I don’t judge in court... by no means. I'm just pointing out that the Minister's actions are not the first... This is not, in my opinion, the last time a minister with his... Well, let's say the arrogant attitude, realizing that there are majority votes in the Saeima and no one will remove him from office, does not look critically at what the Ministry does, and takes advantage of the opportunities, gets into such a dubious situation both about the purchases managed by the Ministry itself (as it should look from the beginning on itself) as well as about the decisions made. In particular, the decisions taken by the Minister have already been challenged in court and are being reviewed by the court. It would have been right if the Saeima had also dealt with the issue - such an important issue! - in accordance with good legislative practice, which unfortunately has not happened here. I believe that this vote is politically motivated, and those who vote politically today on the dismissal of the Riga City Council... That vote will not be based on how it should be, on violations of the law... That is what the debate is saying here. It is mostly political, and I can also dislike a lot of political things, but I will never dare to climb into the table and just say politically: ‘You see, we can vote, we will vote!’ If there is no violation of the law, it must not be done! And in this case, I mean, the Ministry and the ruling coalition... maybe not in full composition, but in partial composition... Today, very arrogantly violates the law and the mandate assigned to them.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U421	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U422	Another one, colleagues. The fact that today the Minister told us a lot of spirit and extensively about non-compliance. Then, of course, I would also like to remind the Minister that, if I am not mistaken, he has certainly also looked at the issue of medical wages as a representative of the government and, most probably, has also violated the law by voting against the raising of medical wages, so voting in favour of a budget that is contrary to the law. But, you see, there is no one who points it out to the Minister, and there is no one who removes the Minister from office in accordance with the order in which the Minister intends to remove 60 people's elected Members from office. And indeed, as my colleague said, we have to look more... really have to look in the mirror. And more. I would like to remind you that VARAM... In my opinion, the Ministry is in a very bad position. That measure that is being implemented by VARAM now - now, a little bit of it is glowing feathers, and a little of it is... smoke cover, because in fact, there could be a very serious problem in the ministry soon, because the OECD and the European Commission have said very negatively about meeting European objectives and the ministry is the main responsibility in this situation, and the sanctions that could follow for this failure will, of course, come back to us all. And what is being accused? It is the organisation of a waste management system... poor organisation, i.e. insufficient statistics, unclear allocation of responsibilities between ministries, industry and municipalities, and the absence of a systemic approach. We have also, in principle, made it clear today that there is some kind of raging along some topics, but there is no systematic leadership of the Ministry's policy on reforms. Administrative liability law, sorting the waste issue is not a priority of the Ministry. But what is the ministry’s priority? As we have seen from the budget debate, the priorities of the Ministry are to hide the raising of wages under different titles, to pay ourselves football grounds and, of course, to keep the tax on natural resources divided into interests. It is in the interest of the Ministry, and the Minister is already fighting for it, not about what he may not be particularly interested in. Yes! Ordering laws and further arrangement of the system - no, it's not interesting! And, of course, ministers are much more interested... instead of asking questions about administrative territory reform, he is more interested in driving, filming and telling about how good he is, and answer phone calls where he simply explains that, you see, reform is good, you're stupid. This is the approach of the Minister, the Minister is entertaining, and the Minister... Don't do anything! However, the Minister has to look more at himself in the mirror. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U423	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U424	Mrs Mourniece, I ask you to remove those bells that are in the hall, otherwise I will not hear what I am talking about myself. ( The transcripts are: “Nothing is going! ” ) I would like to make a couple of arguments about and against the dismissal of the Riga City Council. But before I start doing this, I would like to inform the whole Latvian society that because the Law Office, risking its jobs and with its bonuses for Christmas, has today expressed a legally correct opinion that the draft law prepared is not of legal quality... lawyer Juri Puce... most likely no bonuses will be received during this Christmas season. And you have to know it for society as a whole! And the opposition has an obligation to defend the Legal Office at this point, so that the Legal Office will not be deprived of the bonuses. (Applause) Arguing for and against, I want to name several “to” and one “for”. And then I will tell you how I will vote in this vote. The arguments against are several. And I will start with my coursemate, with whom I joined the first course of the Faculty of Law of the University of Latvia at the same time, it is Minister Juris Pūce. We joined George Pouce’s classmate Edgars Jaunupe in this course. We were in the same course at the Faculty of Law of the University of Latvia. And what I can say honestly, and what Juris Puce also knows (and I can tell you in your face) is that from the age of 18 you, Juris, have always been Edgars Jaunupe Marionette. Always! You've always done what Edgars Jaunups has asked for. Thanks to Edgars Jaunupas, you were State Secretary at the Ministry of Economics because you were a classmate and the best friend. At the University of Latvia, they also took office for this reason. And then it also applies to the period that is now when Minister Juris Pūce is in the position of Minister, because your office head is Edgars Jaunupa's former friend Laila Spaliņa. And that, of course, is not an accidental coincidence. Why does Juris Pūce need the dismissal of Riga City Council? And the argument against is that the main thing that is being put before the public at the moment is that there is a waste crisis in Riga. Believe me, when the Riga City Council is fired, the waste will be exported to Riga by a company such as Clean. ‘ Clean’! Remember these words and remember what I say from the parliamentary tribunal. Who is “pure” as if the true beneficiary? That Guntar Kokorevich... or Development/About! , I don’t know, my friend, or it’s “Latvia’s Future Forum”, which was ever for Development/About! One of the leaders... delivered at conferences. Where's Guntar Kokorevich going? On the mill street, 36 at Andra Scissor, by the way. And that's why we need to release the Riga City Council so that the waste business, Mr. Puce and Mr. Newupa, are likely to be directed to one particular company. By the way, speaking of Mr. Jaunupas, who has not been living as a millionaire for many years, who may be wrong if someone can, can improve, has not been the owner of a large private business, but has been able to live as a millionaire for many years, closer to politics. I do not deny that Jaunupas could be unthankful, of course, he is a talented man. But his wealth, I suspect, is the result of political corruption. Juri Pūce, it is your best friend and person who will advise you to listen the most - also with regard to the dismissal of Riga City Council. By the way, I would like to remind you that Mr. Jaunupas is one of the main characters in the so-called “Tareņi” sauna talks, which did not reveal to the public Juta Strike, by the way, but revealed Mr.Strees when the management changed, and as a result, in the Bank of Latvia we finally arrived at a manager who did not have a shadow of corruption over his shoulders. In this particular case, I would also like to remind you that Mr. Pouce... I can make a mistake (this is a long history), but my memory somehow suggests that Puce has been such... One of Sleser’s first parties at the founding convention. That's the situation, Jury! You were at the Shleser Party Congress. And if we go back to the Clean One, something again is an accidental coincidence. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Urbanovich: “Ai, ai, ai! Eh!’ ) There is another thing I want to say in this context. You have nominated Mārtiņš Staķis as the mayor of Riga City Council, and you are lamating the opposition, you are LARGE, which I will also have a separate story, and you are lamating the ZZS. I looked at Mārtiņš Staķis' declaration, two points. I liked two points. One of these points was: Mārtiņš Staķis has donated to the Union of Greens and Farmers. He is a donor to the Greens/Farmers Union. He's your mayor's candidate! (Laughter) (See the box below.) The other thing that seemed very strange to me was that, as usual, people do not act properly and normally. Mārtiņš Staķis' savings are about 10 thousand euros, but donated to Development/About! he's 38,000 euros. In fact, most of their savings have been returned to the party. Show me one person in the world who owns everything he owns, give it to the party. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Muižniece laughs and raises her hand.) Is it not a question of political corruption, and is it not a question that in fact Mārtiņš Staķis has not contributed from himself, but someone else has given it to him. Just as Edgars Jaunups once offered to donate money to the same organization. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Depp. J. Urbanovich: “Eu! But it's already... “ What I would like to say in this particular regard. Before... It was the last... it was not this summer, but it was last summer. We traveled with an organization that will immediately be set up by its chairman, told people that there would be a better life. After that, of course, something happened that is known to the general public, but then the leader of this party, I would not call them, told people that there are two SAIDS: there is one SAID, which is in the Saeima, and the other one, which is in the Riga City Council. ( Interfaces: “Good morning! ” “Of course!” ) And I can fully agree with him. He's forgotten it. ( The utterance: “Truth! ”) ) He has forgotten what he told people – that the harmony that is in the Saeima is completely different from the harmony that is in the Riga City Council. He probably forgets that the one who will vote today “in favour of” the release of Riga City Council is Member Blumbergs of KPV LV, who has actually joined the UKP and whose business partner has donated to Shleser. (Laughter) Wow! And you're talking... You're talking here that their Shleser's eggs are now standing on the vault, but actually (Laughter) ... In fact, they've been killed there somewhere... They're... in those corners where Minister Puce is, or where Member Blumbergs is. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I (Laughter) As regards the dismissal of Riga City Council, it is absolutely clear that the Saeima has violated everything that could have been violated - all procedures, all, all possible. No oligarch, no corrupt party, has violated as many laws as the Saeima has violated. And what is wrongdoer says today that he will forgive something by moralising from this troupe on how Riga City Council has worked. I do not want to defend the Riga City Council, because there is one argument why I will vote in favour of the release of the Riga City Council, even though I am in the process, the way in which you drive it, as a person with legal education. Everything that has been in the Riga City Council is poisoning me, and everything that I see here in the Saeima is poisoning me. The corruption that I see here in the Saeima, the legal nihilism that I see here in the Saeima, all of this is for me! But I will vote for the dismissal of Riga City Council because I have one argument why I will do it. ( Internouncing call.) And that is the argument: Riga City Council must be released - just as this Parliament must be released. This Parliament must be released even faster than the Riga City Council. The Riga City Council must be released, just like this Parliament, for the reason that if the parliament or the Riga City Council were a private company and if such a company were managed in the way in which the parliament or the Riga City Council was managed, such management would immediately be carried out. Such a corrupt government, which falls on its knees like Daniel Pavlut a week ago. And if we want another argument, the KPV LV or Kapi LV today deserves this loss in this vote precisely because last week you sold in fact five votes because Pavlut asked Pucken's hand. (Laughter) Imposition: “Like you!” ) And, of course, it is worthy of development/for! They have a tendency to this direction. (Laughter) (See paragraph 4.5 of this Regulation.) But the question is quite different. What you didn't do last week... and... That is, when you bend your spine, you lose the game today. And you will continue to lose it. Yes, the Riga City Council has to be released, in my mind. And it must be released for the last reason - because a group of persons, a politically active group of persons, will win the extraordinary elections of the Riga City Council, which I will support. ( The paragraphs are: “O-o-o-o! ” ) Riga City Council must be released for the reason that it will also be the beginning of the parliamentary dismissal. For in the legal nihilism, like this coalition of "uncompromising justice" is working, which simply exaggerates everything... They are extortioning the Rul of Order, they are extortioning the Satversme, they say today from the tribunal that the Riga City Council violates the Constitution. If we want legal arguments, then the Treaties can by their very nature be violated only by the State, because it is the responsibility of the State to ensure that everyone has the rights that are enshrined in the Constitution. It's over. Write down a poor quality document that will be ejected in one night's hour... It is customary for you to work at night hours. You're always... During night hours or full-month. Full month or hours of night. This is the time when you very intensively adopt laws. It's a pity that you're not ready to work during the night for medical doctors, for teachers, for firefighters, for policemen, for pensioners, for the rest. You can increase your funding seven times in the night hours so that you can watch the NBA on your computer again. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Izalnieks: “We have to wait boringly! Speak!” ) And that is why the Council should be released. It's over. Mr. Salon, I understand. I want to compare this Parliament, this coalition with the Vella Servants. Do you remember a movie like that? There were those Riga Birger masters who ran to strangers - to Swedes - with the keys of Riga. You're the ones who run to other governments with those keys. You're carrying them there. You are not defending your country. You have the thinking of the servants, the thinking of the victims, because, in fact, as you speak to me here and shout out of the place, you are waiting for me to climb into the barn and bless you a little bit. You get pleasure from it, including you, Mr. Iesalnieks. It's all in line. All this goes together - the interests of sponsors, foreign interests, but not the interests of Latvia, nor the interests of the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U425	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U426	Colleagues! One of the violations identified by VARAM in the work of Riga City Council is that on 17 December 2013 the Riga City Council adopted binding regulation No. 90 Binding rules for the management of municipal waste. However, they do not include all current regulatory requirements for waste management in the municipality, which the MoEPRD has repeatedly indicated to the City Council. Next. This and other violations, which are mentioned in the annotation, have been committed several times and systematically throughout the period of the elected Riga City Council in the 2017 elections. And then go on. In the 2017 Riga City Council elections Juris Pūce was a candidate from the common list of the Latvian Association of Regions and the “Latvia for Development” party and was elected to the municipality. On 22 June he became a member of the Riga City Council and was the leader of the Riga City Council Group of the “Latvia for Development”. And in this context, I only have two questions. One - how many times and what were the initiatives from the Member and the leader of the political group, Juris Puce, to put these binding rules right when working in the council? And the other. If nothing was done in this matter, will Juris Puce also let himself go? (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U427	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U428	Dear colleagues, Legislative debate and discussion are very serious, very interesting, but very infertile. Once a Latvian politician - wise politician! - has said that the Saeima is not the right place for political and legislative debate. To be honest, I am very sorry that every day I agree with it more and more. But today I'd like to say no to... Neither “for” nor “for” in relation to the arguments that were expressed; I would remind everyone that the salt more than a year ago each of us made a solemn promise, and that promise was not for the party, that promise was not for the group, it was a promise for the Latvian people to work for the best consciousness, respecting the Constitution and Latvian laws. So I call each of you before you press the button, think and remember that it's not the party's responsibility, it's our... each of us has individual responsibility for a better life, for a better legislative practice, for ourselves and for our people. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U429	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U430	Colleagues! I will talk about things that have not yet been discussed. First of all, about the procedure. In addition to the infringements referred to by the Legal Office... I would like to point out how this draft law is currently being examined. That is, you put it on the agenda suddenly, you said that it would have to be seen, but we were not given the opportunity to have this draft law, that is, you forced Members to debate and vote now in favour of a draft law that is not at all available to Members. That's one thing. The other thing. In terms of procedure. For this special, special move, which was executed, that this bill, which by nature would be... had to be returned to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, was given to a completely different commission, which at all... there is no competence. I would like to point out to you that the Constitution makes it quite clear... Article 25 of the Satversme: “The Saeima shall select commissions to determine the number and tasks of their members.” So it makes sense: in order for us to be able to adopt laws qualitatively, so that we can take care of the interests of society and comply with our oath, that is, to adopt laws in good faith and with the best consciousness, there were commissions - each with a specific task, each with a specific specialisation. What, then, are you doing with this bill? If you really wanted to accept it competently, in the public interest... You, on the contrary, gave this draft law to a commission which has nothing to do with it at all, which does not have this appropriate competence. The question is, why? The question, of course, is very simple to answer when it comes to the substance of this draft law, because it is so meaninglessly prepared that a commission with appropriate competence would never lead it to vote in the Saeima. And so you chose a commission that doesn't make sense to you so that you could do it. So that this decision should not be legal, but political, knowing well that you would not be able to take it legally in the Saeima. That is about the procedure. Now - speaking in essence. Listening to all this debate, the desperate comes to mind the ancient Greek philosopher... this competition - they competed, which will prove the greatest absurdity. And one of these stories was that one of the philosophers tried to prove that a bunny would never reach a turtle. Because, you see, while the bunny is running... Let's say, if a turtle is in front of a meter, then it's 10 inches [10 cm] in front of the turtle. The turtle will not be in that place again until it falls 10 inches [10 cm], because it has already dragged a few more centimetres ahead. And that bunny will never be able to reach him. That's the idea... An absurd idea went even further. One Greek philosopher even tried to prove that the movement was impossible at all, that the arrow would never be able to fly. Because before the arrow will be able to fly her way, she will have to fly halfway, but to fly halfway, she will have to fly a quarter way. And, with its endless decrease, it turns out that the arrow doesn't even... in no way can you move, because there will always be something that it is unable to do; in other words, that movement is impossible. How did his opponent win that debate? He didn't even start a debate. He just got up and started walking. That is in response to the question of whether there is a waste crisis in Riga. Well, anyone who looks at, knows clearly that there is no crisis. Minister J. Puce of VARAM: “This is why sophism! ” ) You are dealing with this sophism because you can't prove it differently. Now it's an interesting nuance. Why have you chosen the following interesting... law... this reason to dismiss the Riga City Council. So you come here to talk about everything - corruption, nano-waters, “Riga traffic”. Read the bill: there's nothing like that. The only thing that is mentioned there is that Riga is unable to perform its autonomous function, that is, to ensure the collection of waste. All this reminds me, you know, of anecdotes from one side country. I'll try to tell you in our context. There is a debate, there is a call from the citizen to ask a question. He tells us his situation. He says: “There is no water in our village, there is no sewage, there is no public transport. The hospital was closed. We can't get to another hospital. All the money goes on in disproportionately expensive utilities. Quick help doesn't come to us. In this context, I have the question: ‘Why do we not ratify the Istanbul Convention?’ “ It’s about... so is this debate... talk of one thing in total, but not of the bill. Tell me, Mr Puce, why do you need urgent urgency for this draft law if there is no real crisis in Riga? We can look at it calmly. Perhaps the real reason is exactly the same as for ports: you are telling one thing, but in that suit there are actually quite different goals. Well, concrete, as it was yesterday. You said: “We urgently need to adopt this draft law.” But you have defaulted why it is necessary for these capital companies. Because you knew that immediately the excuse why all this was needed would be removed, because, in principle, America had already decided - we are taking all the sanctions off the port. This draft law was not necessary. You urgently needed to drive it through because you wanted to purify it through this opportunity to privatise the ports. Now that this attempt has failed, I can already hear the culinarys say, "Oh, the devil, we don't need any more for the ports of its capital company." The same applies to this waste management law. Colleagues! Either you don't understand it yourself, or just try to get a bad idea from us, why it's about waste management, why this urgency is needed, because in fact there is no crisis in Riga. A very simple answer! ( Internouncing call.) A very simple answer, Mr Pouce, don't worry about it! I'll explain to you. So that everyone can be clear. Because you have to get a new waste management contest, because, don't give it, God, if now things happen suddenly without you. Therefore, you urgently need to take over this in order to have this political influence. Your naive colleagues support you... Maybe they're not naively supporting, maybe they're also involved in this process. But in fact, the reason is very simple: you want to make a new political roof, and this event is already under your responsibility. Therefore, for the second reading, I will suggest that we make an honest record of this purpose in this law. That this is precisely what we are aiming for: that the purchase of waste management take place under the right political cover. And don't tell us that you care about the fate of Riga! If you cared about it, this circus wouldn't be needed. You just come and work, you have that opportunity! In the Riga City Council, the power rests on your feet. Those of you former Members who are now independent have clearly defined this. We are ready to support you. You, New Conservative Party, New Unity, National Union, Development/About! Take the power! We don't need anything. We don't make any plans. Take it, come on, work! You can solve all this, but you don't want to. So don't tell... Don't tell you that you care about Riga! At least you will come and explain what will change our thinking now? Now what's going to change? How will you solve all the problems that you are talking about here? ( Milestones.) So I'll offer you a second reading that we record honestly what the purpose of this law is. It is - to avoid the situation that the Riga City Council performs the autonomous function of the municipality - to organise municipal waste management, and to ensure that a new procurement of waste management services for the same service providers is implemented, but only under the political control of the Saeima Coalition, because this is already the main goal why you are now urgently trying to do so. Just like you tried to do it with ports yesterday - to simply make your current business scheme for yourself or for your existing or potential sponsors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U431	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U432	Colleagues! I think one of the things. It is rather incorrect to refer (Minimum: "For the Commission!" )... as rapporteur... I am the rapporteur!... to select individual legal office (Dep. A. Gobzem’s intermediate names.) comments from context. ( Milestones.) I would like to point out that... ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U433	Let me speak on behalf of the Commission. The rapporteur may also reflect developments in the Commission. Please, speak!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U434	I would like to point out that... As the draft law rapporteur today... today's dynamic mode... I have heard again the statements made by the Legal Office. And much of my text was almost a direct referencing, a word in the name. But... Everything, of course, can't be remembered and recorded, but I would like to point out that the Legal Bureau pointed out that, if Members are committed to the substance of the draft law in question, they can do so at second reading and can see whether (Interpretative statement: "Do not have second reading... “)... whether protection would be possible in that case. And the Legal Bureau's concerns about the lack of debate will still be addressed during the second reading. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “Nemo! What a fool!” ) And... and I would also like to say thank you to all those who have argued. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Agešina’s synopsis.) Thank you in particular to the consultants of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission for preparing the documents. ( Internouncing call.) I invite you to join me. ... I invite you to vote in favour of the draft law “Law on the dismissal of Riga City Council” at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U435	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law on the first reading of the Riga City Council. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U436	The deadline for the submission of proposals is 3 January 2020 and the second reading is the session of the Saeima on 16 January 2020.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U437	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 3 January 2020, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 16 January 2020. Dear colleagues, Members Dzintars, Strike, Pucens, Pavļuts and Adamovičs are asking to announce a 15-minute break after the examination of the draft law “Law on the dismissal of Riga City Council”. Do Members have objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Please call us! Let us vote for a 15-minute break! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U438	Not registered: Uldis Augulis, Jānis Adamsons, Armands Krauze, Juta Strīķe... and of course. — Dep. J. Strike: “I am!” ), Lubova Švecova and Jānis Vucāns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U439	Interruption until 21.35 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U440	Honourable Members! We're continuing the Saeima sitting. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Medicine”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Anda Čakša.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U441	Good evening, colleagues! I hope it's still ready to hear. So on 11 December, the Social and Labour Affairs Commission of the Saeima started work on the draft law, which came from the Cabinet of Ministers in connection with amendments to the Law on Medicine. And in this bill... The purpose of this draft law is to incorporate the administrative infringement articles of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code, which are within the competence of the Health Inspectorate, which are related to unauthorised medical treatment, to the violation of medical advice, expertise and health care, as well as to the violation of order in pharmaceutical and veterinary pharmaceutical activities into the medical law. In the Commission, the draft law was supported and sent... So at first reading... I therefore call on you, too, to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U442	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Medicine” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U443	Deadline for submission of proposals - 31 January 2020.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U444	Deadline for submission of proposals - 31 January 2020. Draft law “Amendments to the Waste Management Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Mr Daniel Pavluts.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U445	Good evening, colleagues! The First-reading Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Waste Management Act”. This is a draft law prepared by VARAM, reviewed in the government, and it will establish a temporary legal framework in the territory of Riga Municipality in the area of waste management following the end of the government order on the announcement of an emergency situation supported by Saeima, as well as in similar emergency situations, which could develop in such cases in other municipalities as well. These amendments oblige local authorities to ensure, 12 months before the end of the contract with waste managers, that a new public procurement or public-private partnership procedure is announced in order to ensure continuity of services. If, after the conclusion of the previous agreement, the municipality has not concluded a new agreement with the waste manager, as happened in Riga, then until the conclusion of the new agreement, but for no longer than six months, it can continue cooperation with the previous waste manager. If the waste manager does not want or cannot continue to operate in accordance with concluded contracts, the municipality is obliged to conduct a negotiated procedure to select a temporary waste manager. So these issues are covered by this draft law. In the Commission, the draft law was supported and was also decided on urgency. Therefore, I would like to call for a first vote on urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U446	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on waste management! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U447	I now call on you to vote in favour of this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U448	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Waste Management"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U449	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 10 January 2020. In turn, the proposed time for the examination of the draft law at the second reading session of the Saeima - 23 January 2020.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U450	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 10 January 2020, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 23 January 2020. Draft law “Amendments to law “On Judicial Power”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U451	Good evening, colleagues! The draft Commission law on “Amendments to the Law on Judicial Power” is related to the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on the Prosecutor’s Office”, which we will look at next. These amendments provide for the exclusion of the duty of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court to submit a proposal for appointment of the Prosecutor General to the Saeima. On the other hand, powers relating to initiation and dismissal procedures are maintained. In parallel, the functions of the Council for the Judiciary are supplemented by determining actions in the selection of candidates for the post of Prosecutor General. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U452	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -62, for -1, for -14. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U453	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 20 January 2020.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U454	The deadline for submitting proposals is 20 January 2020. Draft law “Amendments to the Public Prosecutor’s Office Law”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U455	The draft law “Amendments to the Public Prosecutor’s Law” is designed to improve the process of selection of candidates for the post of Prosecutor General and ensure greater transparency, as well as the involvement of a wider range of experts in the process of selection of candidates for the post of Prosecutor General. The amendments provide that the Saeima will submit a proposal for a particular candidate to the Council for the Judiciary as a collegial institution, not as the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court alone, as it was so far. There is also provision for candidates not to be directed but to apply independently. The draft law also extends the number of candidates for the post of Prosecutor General with judges and prosecutors who have 15 years of total length of service in this position, giving also qualified judges of district courts and district prosecutors the opportunity to apply for this position. The Commission also offers an opportunity to qualify for academic staff and sworn lawyers of higher education speciality; however, it has not obtained clear support and will be discussed in detail at second reading, assessing the range of entities according to the opinion of the Council for the Judiciary and other experts. Similarly, the draft law provides that the same person may hold the post of chief prosecutor not more than two consecutive terms. The regulation is offered with the aim of making prosecutor's offices... the prosecutor's office is more open to possible changes, the need for which has also been pointed out by the European... Organisation of economic cooperation and development, ensuring the renewal of the prosecutor's staff not only at the highest level, but also at the average level. The limitation of time shall apply only to the public prosecutor's office. The prosecutor will not be prevented from taking office in another prosecutor's office. It is also provided that in cases where a suspicion of non-compliance with the post of the Prosecutor General arises, the initiation of the examination may be initiated not only by the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court or the Members of the Saeima, but also by the Council for the Judiciary. The order of revocation shall remain unchanged in substance. The aim of the draft law is to promote more judicial power... The involvement of the representatives of the authorities in protecting the prestige of the prosecutor's office as a judicial institution. In addition, the draft law provides that once a year the Prosecutor General will present a report to the Saeima on the functioning of the prosecutor's office (in order to achieve greater involvement of the legislator and society, understanding and more effective capacity). Taking into account that the term of office of the current Prosecutor General will expire on 11 July 2020, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention presented this draft law in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice in order to be able to extend the new regulation to the next term of office of the Prosecutor General. At the same time, a transitional period is foreseen for chief prosecutors, providing that existing chief prosecutors may be appointed for a further term after the end of their term of office. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U456	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Raimond Bergman.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U457	Good evening, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I understand that it is Christmas time and emotions are beyond everything - someone hastens to finish his work until the festival so that apparently he can account for himself or someone else for what he has been squandered and done. The events of recent weeks show that this Christmas will be marked by satisfaction and a sense of work for the coalition, because it is quite successful. The changes have started at the same time in all sectors and in different respects. However, from the outside, what is happening today in Parliament is not described in other words as "anywhere there is an insane chaos". (Applause) Constitutional Court has indicated - Constitutional Court! - that ‘... the legislator must ensure that there is a legislative process that contributes to confidence in the State and the law, i.e. that the chosen solution is fair’. ‘ The legislative process must comply with the formal requirements laid down by the laws and regulations, as well as promote the trust of persons in the State and in the law.’ "The main purpose of the law is to ensure fairness." The current practice is clearly contrary to the principle of good lawmaking. However, much more importantly, if the actual legislative practice is beginning to threaten the security of the state and democracy as well. In addition to the fundamental changes made to the legal provisions in recent months, it should be noted, unfortunately, that the draft laws are adopted in a hurry without proper justification and without involving the views of the interested party or the interested parties explicitly. This applies also to these two very important draft laws – “Amendments to the Public Prosecutor’s Office Law” and “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power” – which will determine the procedure for selecting the next Prosecutor General. When it comes to implementing the principles of good governance in sectors, the coalition must ask: "Why is the principle of good lawmaking being explicitly ignored in the legislative work?" Concerns about such situation arise from the draft law “Amendments to the Public Prosecutor’s Office Law” and “Amendments to the law “On Judicial Power”... Modalities of amendments to the process... I would like to inform my colleagues and also the general public about this. Not to mention non-compliance with the draft law submission procedure, there are also contradictions in the preparation of the content of the draft law. Currently, these two draft laws have been submitted to the Saeima by the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, although in essence this draft law has been drafted by the Ministry of Justice. The Council for the Judiciary examined the proposals prepared by the Ministry of Justice and by its decision invited not to support the extended range of candidates with academic staff of the university’s judicial specialty and sworn lawyers. Similarly, the Council for the Judiciary did not support the creation of a special commission. I would like to emphasise that the decision taken in the Council for the Judiciary was discussed, reasoned and justified for a long time. Instead, initial amendments to the draft law prepared by the Ministry of Justice are currently being directed. And now listen! I would remind you that the Council for the Judiciary is composed of the following permanent members - the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court (Interview.) , the President of the Constitutional Court, the Minister of Justice, the Chairman of the Legal Commission of the Saeima, the Prosecutor General, the Chairman of the Council of Sworn Advocates of the Republic of Latvia, the Chairman of the Council of Sworn Notaries of the Republic of Latvia, the Chairman of the Council of Sworn Judicial Officers of the Republic of Latvia and the members elected as follows: a judge elected by the Plenary Session of the Supreme Court, six judges elected by the Conference of Judges. Undoubtedly, my named professionals with years of experience in their work, who are familiar with justice and prosecution issues, are probably much better than we all know here together. So why is the opinion of these experts rejected without justification? ( Internouncing call.) It should be noted here that at the same time the Council for the Judiciary is granted the competence to choose the Prosecutor General. I don't really understand. You, the honorable coalition, trust the Council for the Judiciary or not? Did not your actions lead to a certain contradiction? Tell me, please, is this democracy? Is this the way in which confidence in the state power is fostered - what is strongly advocated by both the Constitutional Court and legal experts? In the Commission vote on the amendments to the laws tabled by the Ministry of Justice, I abstained because I relied on the decision and reasoning adopted by the Council for the Judiciary. I cannot accept the support for a political opinion on the fundamentals of our country, the rule of law and democracy. If the legislator does not trust the Council for the Judiciary, which represents a broad opinion of this branch of state power, how can we expect the legislator and executive to trust the public? I trust the Council for the Judiciary. I therefore stress that its rejection of decisions without justification... that it not only undermines confidence, but also, as I said, poses a threat to national security. Finally, I would remind you that every democratic state is legal, but not every legal state is democratic. However, I would like to hope that Latvia is and will always be a legal and democratic state. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U458	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U459	Colleagues! On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say (Interior: Thank you!) )... ( Laughs) No, no. ( The paragraphs are: “No?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “) Mr. Bergman! Mr. Bergmann (Dep. R. Bergmanis: “Hello!” ), what is the commission for? Perhaps immediately the Council for the Judiciary will adopt all this draft law? Mr. Bergmann! We are looking at first reading, there will be a time limit - quite long enough for a wide discussion. A good legislative process in the Commission and the Saeima will be ensured. ( Internouncing call.) I call on you not to trust the Council for the Judiciary blindly, otherwise we do not need anyone here. We're... Well, otherwise decisions will be taken only by some narrow expert groups. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. He said: “It’s not in the name of the commission! Absolutely not!’ Member of the Commission. I would like to remind you that these discussions took place in the Commission, and your adored Council for the Judiciary had reservations in very narrow points. And... there was no decision. There was no decision that they opposed this draft law. They supported it. They objected in very, very narrow areas, which will be discussed in the future. And these narrow areas are - objections to lawyers and academic staff and doubts about the composition of the individual selection panel, which will be discussed in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! We accept the quality of the legislative process - in three readings, without any rush, with discussions! And we don't say, please, that others will be able to decide for us! We're just gonna sit here and press the pots? ( Insight: “He should have applied for a debate! A man didn’t know!” ) We need to have views. Thank you. I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U460	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Public Prosecutor’s Office Law” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 57, for - 4, for - 21. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U461	The deadline for submitting proposals is 20 January 2020.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U462	The deadline for submitting proposals is 20 January 2020. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision “On distrust for the Cabinet of Ministers led by Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš”. Mr. Schmidt, will you speak on behalf of the applicants? On behalf of the applicants, Member Didzis Schmidt. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U463	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, again tonight! I have to speak on behalf of the applicants, which is far from being the simplest task at the moment for a number of considerations. One of these is that already at the time of signing the request the signatories were not one or two in agreement, but they were many and different, let us say so. If all of them were counted now and tried to argue, perhaps that hour would not be enough. The second is that today time is fast and events are even faster. And the motives that were at the time of signing this proposal probably even slightly shifted away now from those who are in the intermediate phase. I was thinking first of all (my signature is primary)... and I think most signatories have their signature on top... with regard to legal nihilism, which is demonstrated in fact already... All I will say is not so much about Krišjānis Kariņš personally or about the government, because what would then be Krišjānis Kariņš if there weren't this great coalition behind him! I can tell you what Krišjānis Kariņš would be in other circumstances. Krišjānis Kariņš should, admittedly, quite a fall from the Prime Minister, who has achieved the worst result in the history of the party, that is, in the history of 17 years, the worst result. The former Prime Minister's candidate, who would also stand and think why an donkey can't pull a wedding. But that's what this coalition needs. That's what you need, because in fact you haven't been looking for a premiere, you haven't been looking for a leader who... who has a vision that knows where to lead the country, and you didn't get involved in his team behind such a leader... But it's more like... Well, to forgive me Krišjānis Kariņš, I don't want to hurt him, but the coalitions are... Speaking face... A coalition press secretary who, while in a coalition everything is fine, speaks... at a time when something goes cross-over, then the press secretary can easily and quickly be replaced. I meant to talk in detail about this legal nihilism, but, you know, to be honest, I no longer have that desire. I think that today the Saeima sitting and the way decisions were made about the Riga City Council, in violation of all - the parliamentary roll of order, the laws and, finally, the Constitution - are such a bright testimony to where we have come under this coalition. It is even difficult for me to remember the last sitting of the Saeima, which would not violate the Rules of Procedure, the Law, the Satversme. I know that there were such sittings before this coalition of illegality was formed, but was there at least one sitting at the time of the coalition, where we... The majority of Parliament's Members would not offend anything, and I do not remember, to be honest. But the most important thing I want to say today is to turn to my former group's colleagues, but still members of the party. I think that what you have seen today in the votes on the Riga City Council is a clear demonstration of what we were talking about, even before this coalition was created - what is actually what forms this coalition and what the role of the KPV LV in it is. KPV LV did not establish this coalition in substance. This coalition was created... To be precise, the 50th and 51th votes were given by those two people from the KPV LV's ranks, who... Like then, it has now voted today in the same way as they have voted, contrary to the Group's decisions. That was the 51st voice that formed this famous coalition. The rest of you were taken along, as they say, like a ballast, a boxing bag that can be rubbed at first, but if it starts to interfere, it can be thrown out of the train door. You were invited on that train, even sitting in a restaurant van. But now you see what it will end with. Mr Kazinovsky has already very precisely outlined the following scenario. You'll start to pee, do it selectively, one by one. I think the Minister of the Interior, Ģirgen, is the first person to get involved. Then you'll see how the others react - either they're lying down or they're going to fight. And if you go in the fight, you'll throw that boxing bag out of the door. But I think, unlike the rest of the coalition... I really still think so from the heart... It's not too late for you to... You're not too late for this... I think now, if you understand it, to be aware and join a free group of people. But that's the train... do not be afraid to climb out of the restaurant car or from the train itself. I, of course, can't offer you restaurant wagons instead, and I don't really need anything from you either, but I think we could go further together, the rest to drive. And the rest to vote for Krišjānis Kariņš and drive forward with the train that seems to you to lead over the blood across the promised golden bridge, but in fact already there is no gold bridge there, there is an abyss. That bridge is a deadge. Because this coalition is actually not a government, but... That's the thing that's going to change the press secretary and... at some point and roll further. No, it's too late. And it came up several times late, but crucially, at a time when the Members violated their oath, voting in favour of a budget that is, as they say today, illegal, because there was already another law that you did not even try to abolish. Yes, and I would like to say very briefly: what happens to the rest is like... described in the book ‘Master and Margarita’ by Mihail Bulgakov. I think many have read. Great job! And there's... You will understand what I'm talking about. What has already happened is that Annuška has already bought sunflower oil... not only bought but also missed. Those who know understand. For those who don't know what happened to Berlioze, I don't want to say bad things before Christmas. Those who did not understand to read - excellent... Or remember - an excellent, excellent book! But... But at the end of one another thing. And again I turn to my colleagues. That also encouraged me to take this step, which I will say... I don't want to... I don't want before the festival and after all that was... of which - from two of our party members... In some way, urge you to vote again either against your conscience... Even it doesn't matter if against the conscience, but vote today. Therefore, the Members of the Saeima who made this request have submitted to me a withdrawal of this request, which I submitted to the Bureau. The signatures shall be withdrawn from the request of the Prime Minister. I wish everyone a happy Christmas and a happy new year! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U464	Members Gobzems, Stepanenko, Zarins, Sprūde, Šmits, Liepaja, Lochmele-Lunova and Kabanov have withdrawn their signatures to the draft decision on distrust for the Cabinet of Ministers led by Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš. Consequently, this draft decision cannot be put to the vote. We have examined the agenda of the sitting. Dear colleagues, This was the last ordinary sitting of the Saeima in this session. I wish everyone a happy Christmas, a happy new year! Thank you to all the members of the Saeima who have helped ensure that this sitting is held. (Applause) Please call me! I request the registration of the presence of Members. Name to the Secretary of the Saeima Maria Golubev. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U465	Not registered: Uldis Augulis, Jānis Adamsons, Artuss Kaimiņš, Armands Krauze, Ivans Ribakovs, Sandis Riekstins, Lubova Švecova, Jānis Tutins and Jānis Vucans... Tutin's there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-19-PT13-2031-U466	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
