ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take a seat in the Chamber so that we can start the Saeima meeting on 13 June 2019. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. Members Zariņš, Urbanovičs, Ribakovs, Krišāns, Klementjevs, Cilevičs, Adamsons and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Ivars Zariņš from the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the objectives of OIC support, impact, criteria for receiving support, intensity of support, decision of the European Commission of 24 April 2017 in case SA. 43140 (2015/NN) and actions by law enforcement authorities.’ Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Adamson, Urbanovich, Ribakov, Krišāns, Clementyev, Cilevičs and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On the election of the Saeima Member Jānis Adamsons in the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the objectives, impact, criteria for receiving support, intensity of support, decision of the European Commission of 24 April 2017 in the case SA. 43140 (2015/NN) and actions by law enforcement authorities.’ Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members of Pavļuts, Lejiņš, Golubeva, Kalniņš, Bondars, Bluķe, Voika and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “On the compensation of good will to the Jewish community in Latvia for the illegal expropriation of real estate during the Holocaust and Communist totalitarian regime”. ‘ On” applied to speak by Daniel Pavluts.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U2	Dear President of the Saeima. Members, Members, colleagues and present! The Latvians know what historical justice is. The restoration of the statehood of Latvia was the restoration of historical justice to the Latvian nation, therefore the State of Latvia has a moral obligation to fully restore historical justice to the Jews of Latvia. The Jews of Latvia have always been and continue to be an integral part of the Latvian people. They took part in the struggles for freedom. It's part of our history. They were almost completely destroyed by the Nazi and Communist regimes. And the state of Latvia is not responsible for these crimes. However, it is fair and correct that the state of Latvia symbolically rewards the Jews of Latvia by the occupation regimes, destroying Jewish families, robbing them of their lives and property. There was no Latvian state at that time. The state of Latvia did not participate in these crimes, it has restored the ownership of individual heirs, but as a result of Nazi and Communist crimes, many of them are physically missing any heir who could recover them through denationalisation. And they are owned by the state of Latvia. ‘ The foreign treasure doesn’t bring happiness” - says the Latvian People’s Parion. And there is another Latvian folk parion – “The Giver Gives to You”. Why are we talking about this now? Friends, this has been discussed several times in the Saeima. This is not a new issue on the agenda of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia. It has been here for more than 20 years. The Jewish Community of Latvia and international Jewish organisations, in particular the United States, played a key role in the decision of the United States to host the Baltic States... and NATO's decision to admit the Baltic States to the NATO Alliance. The USA remains the main strategic ally of Latvia and the highest guarantee of our security. I would like to remind you that Latvia has also made international commitments: in 2009, together with 46 other countries, when signing the Teresin Declaration, it undertook to make compensation for the victims of the Holocaust and the Jewish communities for the property taken away. Our neighbour Lithuania has already adopted a similar law in 2011, which grants the Jewish Community of Lithuania a refund of EUR 30 million of good will, which is gradually being invested - in their case - in a fund of good will over a period of 10 years. Today, the state of Latvia has an opportunity to restore justice in relation to the part of the nation that was destroyed as a result of the Holocaust and the communist totalitarian regime implemented by the Nazi totalitarian regime in the territory of our country. We have found an approach that would allow the interests of all representatives of the Jewish community of Latvia to be taken into account by making reasonable and fair compensation. Colleagues! This topic has been discussed, but not addressed for many years, and we think it is now time to strengthen the moral dimension of our country's international reputation by implementing this initiative, and therefore also our allies' readiness to come to the country to help if necessary. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U3	Name to the Member... Alexander Kirštein has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U4	Dear President, Honourable Members! I must, however, oppose this amazingly dilethal and historical misunderstanding. First, the Jews were paid compensations already during the Supreme Council. I myself participated as a representative of the Foreign Affairs Commission at that time. There was an agreement with... At that time, there was a Jewish cultural society, represented by Ruta Marjaša and Mavrik Wolfson, and a sufficient number of property belonging to the organizations - from the Jewish hospital to various buildings in Daugavpils and Liepaja. That is the first point. Second. The agreement was signed that the state will finance the Jewish school and that from state funds the Jewish... the so-called research centre. Plus was returned to a building where a Jewish museum was now located, which never belonged to the Jewish Society, because prior to the war there was no property... where was the theater at its time. Hence, a whole line of property was returned. It is a lie that these issues have not been dealt with. During the previous Saeima, the property was also returned, and I was surprised... The then Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Commission said that this issue had been dealt with, because the reasoning was exactly the same: our American friends have to show and so on. But suddenly it turns out that we have given nothing! They are clear lies. Question three: Has not Germany already paid compensation to the Jewish community at the time when it was responsible for the case? Is it? How many times does one ethnic group have to pay compensation? Next question. The only ethnic group in Latvia to which property has been taken away and compensation has not been paid is the Germans. At the time of the early reform, the land was nationalised, leaving up to 50 hectares... Here in the Saeima, there was a very sharp debate about whether owners would pay for confiscated forests. With the primacy of one vote, the Saeima voted that no compensation was paid. In our verbatim reports, it can be read that writer Kārlis Slanke warns: if we take away property from someone contrary to European practice and do not pay for it, then the time will come when we will take it away in the same way. These Laundry words have been fulfilled. So the Germans... I am not talking about the 1939 repatriation, but about private owners who have not received compensation and who have actually built this country. I am talking about the whole culture of Livonia - our cities, our grammar foundations, our song festival, our education system, which was founded in Livonia and continued in the autonomous provinces of the Baltic, the special culture of administration, which was different from Latgale, which was at that time in Vitebsk. So here we believe that if we kill people in 1905 or 1919, we put them in concentration camps, we burn their property (for example, pastor Bielenstein, who collected Latvian folk songs, the library with Latvian cultural values was burned twice), including... about it you can sing songs for the festival, and that includes heroism, huh? If against another ethnic group... then it is called the Holocaust. Well, put on glasses, Mr. Pavlut! Those who separate! You already do not distinguish these things. So if you want to pay someone, then maybe we start with the ethnic group to which we have not paid compensation. Next. Whether you can return property to those to whom they have never belonged... Contrary to Latvian legislation? Lithuania's example is often mentioned. There was a common Jewish organization in Vilnius - a community that could... Consequently, Lithuania also granted and paid some compensation. In Latvia, these properties were owned by different owners, hostile to each other, starting with the left of the Hindu, various Marxist organizations, Jewish trade unions, two school systems - Yiddish and Hebrew... And you can't give back, for example, the property of the Latvian Zionist, which the Communists have sent out, the Communist who comes from Belarus doesn't have a citizen and runs now, let's say, the relevant... this community... organisation. Well, that's what it is! This is contrary to the Constitution of Latvia. Then we must first change the Constitution and say that all nationalities are equal, but some ethnic groups are more equal than others... Where, for example, Germans are not included, who do not have to compensate...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U5	Mr. Kirstein, the speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U6	I'm the last one. We need a little self-esteem - to end this dogry rain and learn from the Polish President Duda, who said that the Americans...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U7	Mr Kirštein, I have to say once again that the speaking time is over and cannot be extended in line with the Rule of Procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U8	... that the property is returned only to owners. The property of the non-owner belongs to the State, which includes all ethnic groups. Thank you. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U9	Colleagues, we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law “On the compensation of good will to the Jewish Community of Latvia for the illegal alienation of real estate during the Holocaust and Communist totalitarian regime” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 37, for - 37, for - 37, for - 5. Draft law shall not be included on the agenda of the sitting. Members Šmits, Liepiņa, Sprūde, Stepanenko, Krauze, Krišāns, Urbanovičs and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the withdrawal of the parliamentary Member Arvils Asheradens from the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the objectives of introducing OIC support, impact, criteria for receiving aid, aid intensity, decision of the European Commission of 24 April 2017 in SA. 43140 (2015/NN) and actions by law enforcement authorities.’ ‘ “A Member has applied to speak about” Linda Liepiņa.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U10	Good morning, dear colleagues! At the previous sitting of the Saeima, we tried to point out that the presence of Mr Arvil Asheraden in the parliamentary committee of inquiry on OIC issues would not be really legitimate. I very much want to believe that the experience-rich YOUNGITY had not noticed such a regulation of the law - the fact that persons who have a conflict of interest could not be members of the parliamentary investigation committee. Therefore, this draft decision - on the withdrawal of Arville Asheraden from that committee - has been drawn up to this sitting of the Saeima. At the previous sitting, we also heard Mr Judine point out that the new unity does not really see the problems that Mr Asheraden would have in this commission. Now, Mr Zarins has also referred to his work in this committee for various reasons. I would ask for this item to be placed on the agenda and voted in favour of the withdrawal of Mr Asheraden from the parliamentary committee of inquiry on OIC issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U11	Mr. Ainars Latkovskis has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U12	Good morning, colleagues! We have prepared not only a draft decision on the withdrawal of Arvila Asheraden from the OIC Investigation Commission, but also a draft decision on the representation of the Fraces Council and the Saeima Presidium. We have prepared a draft decision on the inclusion of our group member, Ata Leieniņa, in the OIC Investigation Commission. I therefore call for this to be rejected and then for two full draft decisions to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U13	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft decision on the withdrawal of Arvil Asheraden, member of the Saeima from the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the objectives, impact, eligibility criteria, aid intensity, decision of the European Commission of 24 April 2017 in case SA. 43140 (2015/NN) and for damage and actions by law enforcement institutions” to be placed on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the draft decision is not included on the agenda of the sitting. Members Latkovskis, Lejiņš, Lībiņa-Egnere, Strīķe, Pucens, Pavļuts, Adamovičs and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the withdrawal of Arvils Asheradens from the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the objectives of implementing OIC support, impact, criteria for receiving aid, aid intensity, decision of the European Commission of 24 April 2017 in case SA. 43140 (2015/NN) and actions by law enforcement authorities.’ Do Members object to the inclusion of the draft decision on the agenda of the sitting? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) If there are objections, then we must vote. Mr Gobzem wants to speak 'no'. Name of Member Aldim Gobzem, who will speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U14	Good morning, colleagues! I call for a vote against the withdrawal of Arvil Asheraden from the OIC Commission for several reasons. First. You have just voted against it, dear coalition. Secondly. As we remember, last week, a representative of the 'uncompromising rule of law', Mr Judin, got up in the troupe and put forward very hard and substantial arguments as to why Arvil Asheraden could be a member of the commission. He said that if there are several people in the Commission who have a conflict of interest, then Arvil Asheraden can certainly be a member of the Commission. Rather than using the argument recorded in the Parliamentary Commissions of Inquiry law. The law states that there is no such commission for a person who has a conflict of interest. This was not important to Mr Judin. It was important for him to point out that, since there is another - potentially - conflict of interest, then everything is fine with Arville Asheraden. What YOUNG Unity is doing at the moment is trying to conceal the fact that Arvil Asheraden will also have a conflict of interest over this situation last week, last week and next week. So... Since you voted against his repeal today... That would have been the most logical solution - to cancel him, not to let him resign... he, as a person who has been a minister, had to know himself that he had a conflict of interest, and himself had to stay away from this commission in order to continue to cover the OIC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U15	Colleagues, we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the impact of the draft decision on the withdrawal of Arville Asheraden from the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the objectives of the OIC aid, the eligibility criteria, the aid intensity, the decision of the European Commission of 24 April 2017 in case SA. 43140 (2015/NN) and for damage and actions by law enforcement institutions” to be placed on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 77, for - no, for - 1. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. Members Latkovskis, Lībiņa-Egnere, Strīķe, Dzintars, Pucens, Pavļuts and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision on the election of Ata Lejans in the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the objectives, impact, eligibility criteria, aid intensity, decision of the European Commission of 24 April 2017 in the case SA. 43140 (2015/NN) and actions by law enforcement authorities.’ Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The draft decision shall be placed on the agenda of the sitting. We shall continue to examine the agenda. Reports by the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Member Golubeva, Lībiņa-Egnere, Voika, Dzintara and Orlov be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, according to which it is the committee responsible. ‘ On” applied to talk... Please turn on the microphone for Andris Flyre.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U16	I call for this draft law to be referred to the Social and Labour Commission... as a responsible person.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U17	Please turn on the microphone for Juta Strike.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U18	Please establish the Commission for Education, Culture and Science as co-responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U19	The Education, Culture and Science Commission as co-responsible... So, first of all, we must vote in favour of handing over the draft law to the Social and Labour Commission as the commission responsible. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child” to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. And now there is a proposal to define the Education, Culture and Science Commission as co-responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Thus, the Commission for Education, Culture and Science is established as a co-responsible commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on Administrative Penalty on Violations in the Fields of Administration, Public Order and Use of the State Language” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Against” has applied to speak to Member Valery Agešins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U20	Dear colleagues, Today we have to decide to refer the draft new law - the Administrative Penalty Law on Violations in the Field of Administration, Public Order and State Language - to the commissions. This project establishes administrative offences and penalties for them, as well as institutional competence in the application of penalties. I would very much like to hope that the majority of those present would like to participate in the establishment of an orderly regulatory system... establishing a system that is fair and understandable to people. Therefore, in the context of this draft law, I would like to express my views on the severity of the penalties and the principle of proportionality. It follows from the concept of a democratic republic provided for in the Constitution that a number of fundamental principles of the rule of law, including the principle of proportionality, emerge. The essence of the principle of proportionality as a constitutional order is as follows: in order to achieve a legitimate objective, a State cannot arbitrarily choose any means. A State may choose only a measure that is applicable to the achievement of a specific objective. In addition, the instrument chosen must be reasonable in relation to the objective pursued. It is also important to find out how big the risk of failure is. In accordance with the principle of the rule of law, a fine should be proportionate. The imposition of a disproportionate fine should lead to the abolition of such a fine. The problem arises from the fact that the imposition of a fine is not clearly defined when it is considered to be proportionate and from what amount it can be considered to be disproportionate. A proportionate fine has several features. This should not exceed what is objectively necessary to achieve the objective; it is appropriate to the infringement committed; it should serve as a preventive measure to prevent similar infringements from being allowed in the future. I believe that it is not possible to cover all cases for a uniform definition of a proportionate fine or for a uniform level of the fine. In each situation, a separate calculation should be made to determine the appropriate amount of the fine to ensure compliance with the legal framework. When assessing the proportionality of the norm, account must be taken of the amount of the imposed penalty, the possibilities of a person to pay the imposed fine, as well as the consequences which are entered into without paying the penalty. In other words, and perhaps in simple terms, the severity of the punishment has never stopped committing an offence in its entirety. In addition, a fine of a cosmic amount opens the way to corruption. The person is unable to pay and tries to agree with the official, sometimes also agrees. It should also be borne in mind that more fines are more difficult to recover, so I believe that it is not necessary to impose more severe fines in the Law on Administrative Penalty on Violations in the Field of Administration, Public Order and Use of State Language. This is not the solution. Otherwise, the result will probably run counter to the legislator's forecast. I call for a 'no' vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U21	“On” has applied to speak Member Jānis Iesalnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U22	Good morning, colleagues! On 18 February 2012, all Latvian citizens went to a referendum where some tried to define a second language – Russian in the country of Latvia. The citizens of Latvia strongly rejected the proposal proposed by the Kremlin's servants, and there is one state language in the country of Latvia: Latvian. This law... For many years, the State Language Law has been passed in Latvia, which establishes the obligations necessary for the state language to function in real life as well, so that Latvian citizens, for example, in shops, will be served in the state language. For this State Language Law to work in reality, of course, various administrative penalties are required for violations of the law. Therefore, the draft law that you have been voting for today has been drafted by the Ministry of Justice for several years, because, as we all know, next year, the Latvian Administrative Violations Code, which has so far included norms relating to violations of the State Language Law, will lose its force. If we reject this draft law, then in fact, the state language in the territory of Latvia will no longer be protected by administrative means. Consequently, I call for the call for the outcome of the Bilingual referendum to be revised and for support to be given to this draft law to be rejected. Thank you. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, One has said 'for', one is 'for'. And now we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for handing over to the Legal Commission of the draft law “Law on Administrative Penalty on Violations in the Field of Administration, Public Order and Use of the State Language”, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the own-initiative proposal submitted. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications has submitted a draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 822 Latvian citizens “Demolition of victory monument”. This draft decision is presented in the form of an own-initiative proposal. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. Consequently, the draft decision is on the agenda of the sitting. On the granting of leave. For unpaid leave granted to Inguna Ribena on 12 and 13 June this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Ms Inguna Rībena, Member, requesting her to be granted unpaid leave on 12 and 13 June this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to Ms Linda Ozola, Member of Parliament, on 13 June this year. The Saeima Bureau has received a request from a Member, Linda Ozola, to grant her unpaid leave on 13 June this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For granting unpaid leave to Member Ilmars Dūritis on 19 and 20 June this year. Colleagues! We have to vote. Please call me! We will be voting for the granting of unpaid leave to the Member Ilmars Dūritis on 19 and 20 June this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. For granting unpaid leave to Member Janis Urbanovičs on 19 and 20 June this year. Please call me! We will be voting for the granting of unpaid leave to Member Janis Urbanovičs on June 19 and 20 this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Ivars Zarins from the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the objectives, impact, eligibility criteria, aid intensity, decision of the European Commission of 24 April 2017 in case SA. 43140 (2015/NN) and actions by law enforcement authorities.’ Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “What is it?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U24	Hello, colleagues! ( From the UK Party: “Ivar, don’t go away! ” ) I have already heard various conspiracy theories about this decision in a public space. I'm gonna have to knock them out. Some may be upset, but someone will breathe lightly. No one has forced me to make such a decision, nor has there been any circumstances that would force me to make such a decision. I have taken this decision myself and, moreover, immediately after the committee's management elections. It was the last drop to make such a decision. That is, if the commission really wanted its work to be successful, then logically it would be to choose who has the greatest competence, who has the experience that has worked in this work. However, the commission did not, for some reason, choose a manager who has no experience at all. With this they showed that they did not really care about the good work of the commission, but that they did it with such a goal... it is being done with the aim of torpedoing the work of this committee. The real purpose of this choice was to discredit... To completely discredit the KPV LV in front of their voters... that they are unable to do anything. It also seems that KPV LV itself does not care about the promises made to its voters, because they delegated to this committee not those people who worked and prepared the tasks of this committee, who wanted to operate in it, but people who have no competence at all. I'm not trying to offend anyone here. Because it is normal that a person cannot be competent in all matters. I, for example, would never take the lead in a kindergarten group. It’s a hard and responsible job. K. Girgens: “Ivar, you said you would help the new ones! What are you running?” ), and I have no competence for it, so I am not afraid to do so. On the other hand, the political power that has been involved in this phase to the ears delegated to this commission a person who has a clear conflict of interest. The question is, with what goal? Do you really want to investigate or cover it? If there is argument that competence is important, then, excuse me, why didn't it matter to you when you chose the head of commission? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. U. Budriķis: “You have a camp that didn’t elect?” ) I have also heard about myself claims that I might have a conflict of interest. I regard such claims as attempts to deceive me or as absolute incompetentness. These are people who simply do not focus on the subject matter of the investigation. I know clearly that I do not have a conflict of interest because, unlike those who make such claims, I am very well aware of the subject matter of the investigation... I know clearly what role the regulator has played in the process and what I have done in it. If anyone has doubts about it... I ask the Commission of Inquiry to check whether I have had a conflict of interest or not. And I hope that you will do it with the same responsibility, with the same care, as you will investigate all the other issues. At the time when I got caught up with this thing, I was able to move this wedding. ( From the U.S. U.S. fraction: “Come in for help! ” ) This wedding has moved. I therefore hope that the Commission, if it really wants to do something, is only left to stick to the issues that have been prepared. Because when we were making this commission, we already thought that we would try to demolish it. A very specific task was therefore prepared. But if the members of the commission are afraid of my competence, of my experience, of my struggle to lead the matter. — Dep. S. Riekstins: “This is what you already tell on the third day!” ), then we're going to do that I'm going to continue to pull this wedding alone. You can pull what you want. Let's see who can do more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U25	The name is Mr. Janis Wittenberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U26	Colleagues! Ivar, you irritated me, and I'm really disappointed with you. You're talking about some kind of wedding all the time. I don’t know what kind of luck it is. — Dep. I. Zarins: “It’s the thing that you don’t understand!” ) because Ivars doesn't pull anything. That is clear. (Applause) You've built two campaigns... Two campaigns have been built to fight and to do something, but in reality there has only been some shouting in order to turn the eyes of Latvian society away from what is happening in Riga City Council, but in reality no work has been followed. (Applause) It reminds me of the time before the wall. Ivars's coming to help, but then he says he has no keds, forgot the best shirt at home and so on. Ivar, you promised us all the time that you'd come to help, even if we didn't want to. Come on, help! You'll draw the grain from the chaff and so on. What are the grains here, and who are the chaff? A few weeks ago, my colleague Atis Zakaitistov gave a speech in which he mentioned a door that he could call – “oik!” . And then there was a rhetorical question: what does he see behind that door? One thing is clear: Ivars Zarins doesn't see him there. I don't see it anymore. So, Ivar, please come and don't start! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U27	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U28	I wasn't going to talk. John, this time you missed a great opportunity to listen. For what OIC wanted or didn't want to do. What was the deal in building this government? You mentioned Atti Zakaistova, who lied openly at the meeting of the political group about the various opinions he had held, which he did not have until now. Our roads will be separated for some time after this sitting. I'm sorry. And to a large extent, that's why. And when you're tired of being fertilized... serve as a fertiliser for the Kryzanthemes of the New Unity, you know where to find me. Thank you. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U29	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U30	Colleagues! If I am not able to do anything and have not done anything, what are these experiences that I will not be on the commission? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “You wanted that thousand euro bonus? How about that?’ ) At that point, there should be no such experience. A I can tell you why there are these experiences. For at the time when I started this fight with the OIC-field (and thanks to this fight now work is going on with it at all), Members came to me in the early days who asked: “Zarin, now it’s enough for you to deal with their requests there. Right, investigation commission!” And what do you think - of which parties were those Members? It is those who are involved in this afērce! Because they knew very well how this investigative commission could be used - how to not investigate something. That's why I didn't make such a commission. I have believed you, the political party KPV LV, in your promises that you want to fight this phrase, you want to do it. You will have the opportunity to prove it. On the other hand, I will have the opportunity not to treat you, not to treat the five people who voted against me as a leader who do not want me to lead that process. You will now have the opportunity to do it yourself, you won't have to sneeze us that I'm pulling in one direction, but these five in another direction. That would be pointless spending of power and spending of time on which perhaps very many hoped, and so I am so disappointed now that I have not fallen into this trap. There's this whole story about it. If you really want to do something and want to be successful in this process, you have already done everything. All you have to do is read. Read and fill in what is on your job! And there will be a result. I have helped you, and I will continue to help you. You will be able to see this at the next meeting of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, where we will see amendments to the Electricity Market Act, which should have been adopted for a long time, but which you have so far braked. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Stop teasing!” ) If you really are interested in this scene to complete, then you will be able to show it with your work. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “Ivar, you lied!) I call everyone to work. ( Milestones.) And those of you who go out, get out somewhere else!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U31	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U32	Janis Vitenberg, you entered the Saeima, not because you visited Latvia, but because you did not agree with the party, published a newspaper and used it... including my name. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Pucens: “A complete lie!” ) There were quotations in this newspaper... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Pucens: “A complete lie!” ; dep. L. Liepiņa and dep. D. Smith: “Truth!” ) After the parliamentary elections have taken place... I want to remind you, John Witenberg, that we walked together, in two, along the Māra pond. ) and you talked about what kind of positions you want. Now you have a position in the New Unity Government... But you have forgotten what the promises of the political party KPV LV have been. ( Internouncing call.) You have voted against all KPV LV promises... from the list where you... by chance after entering the Saeima and... in which you are most probably by accident after entry. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. N. Gunna: “A very successful chance!” ; dep. Feldman: “It's been a good thing!” ) Today you are criticising Ivars Zarins, who has been fighting OIC for many years. At the beginning of this year, on 10 January, you voted in favour of abolishing the OIC as from 31 March. You did it when there was no government... when there was no new Unity Government. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: Talk about the subject! ) After the OIC was not repealed on 31 March, you have not been alarmed for any day that the Latvian Government does not comply with the decisions of Parliament. You lead one of the Saeima commissions, one of the most important commissions that affects the life of all Latvian citizens! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: “But you don’t lead!” ) What is actually in this commission... and I have nothing against Eve Krapan, but I'm sure those who prepared the questions... which were prepared in other premises... Those who prepared them have an objective knowledge of the subject. You voted against Didy Schmidt in this commission because it was once again agreed with the New Unity to have a post in the commission, not to do the work promised before the elections (Interest.) , because apparently the posts are more important than the performance of the promises, and also the performance within certain time limits for which you have voted. ( Internouncing call.) I think that's not even a double. It's just a situation where you can see very clearly... and also in your activities... You do not have the ideal that you need more positions in the new unity government. — Intergovernmental. . And so that OIC is in fact not only not abolished, but that Asheraden is not held accountable, because last week and today you voted against Asheraden being removed from the commission because he has an objective conflict of interest. After that, you climb into a tribunal and say that you're doing something here in the interests of the people? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Do not break the trigger!” ) This is a very honest attitude that I am now expressing towards you. You wouldn't be here without the newspaper you're referring to... including me.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U33	Colleagues while on the agenda...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U34	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U35	... is a draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Ivars Zarins. I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Ivars Zariņš from the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the objectives, impact, eligibility criteria, aid intensity, decision of the European Commission of 24 April 2017 in case SA. 43140 (2015/NN) and for damage and actions by law enforcement authorities’! Please vote mode! ( Internouncing call.) Please get the result! On - 78, against - 3, refraining from - 1. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On the election of the Saeima Member Jānis Adamsons in the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry on the objectives, impact, criteria for receiving aid, intensity of aid, decision of the European Commission of 24 April 2017 in case SA. 43140 (2015/NN) and actions by law enforcement authorities.’ Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Jānis Adamsons to the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry on the objectives, impact, eligibility criteria, aid intensity, decision of the European Commission of 24 April 2017 in case SA. 43140 (2015/NN) and for damage and actions by law enforcement authorities’! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the withdrawal of Arvila Asheraden from the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the objectives, impact, eligibility criteria, aid intensity, decision of the European Commission of 24 April 2017 in case SA. 43140 (2015/NN) and actions by law enforcement authorities.’ Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft decision on the withdrawal of Arville Asheraden from the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the objectives, impact, eligibility criteria, aid intensity, decision of the European Commission of 24 April 2017 in case SA. 43140 (2015/NN) and for damage and actions by law enforcement authorities’! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of Ata Lejiņš to the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the objectives of implementation of OIC aid, impact, criteria for receiving aid, aid intensity, decision of the European Commission of 24 April 2017 in case SA. 43140 (2015/NN) and actions by law enforcement authorities.’ Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U36	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that the way in which the ruling coalition is trying to really hide its shortcomings is rather regrettable. Because what we have seen today is the paperwork in such a hurry, when you saw that the opposition had put forward a proposal to withdraw Mr Asheraden... I think that does not make you honor, because compared to our proposal to withdraw Mr Asheraden... our proposal contains a basis, a justification - a clause in the conflict of interest law, but I think you have simply voted in favour of putting this proposal on the agenda of the sitting, in breach of all procedures... and also on the examination of this proposal. Colleagues! It's a huge shame. Again, a huge shame! Like last sitting, when we talked about the request for elections to the European Parliament... Now you have made a mistake again. I think that such errors will continue to occur, and there will be more and more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U37	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U38	A week ago, I was on the table and referred to the relevant paragraph of the relevant article of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry Law, which clearly and unequivocally states that the commission cannot be composed of a person who is in a situation of conflict of interest. This is a legal requirement! The majority in Parliament, i.e. the coalition, did not take this into account and voted in favour of the approval of Asheraden by this committee. And actually, its main theme, which this morning too... When the issue of the withdrawal of Asheraden was already on the agenda, it was at the time that a parliamentary document was drawn up that Asheraden was being withdrawn, which the Group's YOUNG Unity was working on. This document was not even distributed to Members of the Saeima, but it was already voted on by the coalition. Well, in principle, Parliament voted when he had not yet had access to the document in question. I understand that the "uncompromising rule of law" government, which is this government, does not respect the requirements of the law, but responds only when it realises that it is starting to come to its mouth... that you have to react at that moment... Well, it's a little bit of nothing, though... Well, now we're going to withdraw Asheraden from the commission! Although in the "uncompromising rule of law" government, those representatives of the "uncompromising rule of law" from the JCPOA should be the first to step in the tributary and say that Asheraden has a conflict of interest, you voted in favour of Asheraden's presence in this commission. ( Internouncing call.) You voted in favour! You are on a business card "without compromises for the rule of law". Your votes in all these situations, including the votes on Asheraden in the conflict of interest, show what you really think about 'uncompromising the rule of law'. Your understanding of the "uncompromising rule of law" is simple: that is, the definition of it is: 'We, the JIP, have no rules, but you - everyone else - have rules that we say. This is our understanding of the “uncompromising rule of law”!” Obviously that is what you think. But in general... in fact, "One law - one justice for all" - this is an issue that is "uncompromising the rule of law". The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstina and dep. A. Muižniece’s intermediate names.) I understand that you can laugh and like this, but you already laugh about yourself, about your statements, about your “uncompromising rule of law”. Perhaps not only withdraw Asheraden from this vote, but withdraw your statement that you are the face of "uncompromising justice". Cancel it and tell the honest public that “uncompromising justice” in Latvia means unjustice! That this only means a reaction when there is too much soap in the cart. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Feldmans: “A Valaini will you withdraw?” ) I call on... I call for this draft decision not to be voted on because the draft decision needs to be modified for YOUNG Unity and it should be made clear and clear that Asheraden has a conflict of interest, so we are ready to vote in favour of it. I also call on the representatives of the "uncompromising justice" to point out to their coalition partners that the "uncompromising justice" must clearly state the reason why Mr Asheraden cannot be a member of this Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U39	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Ata Lejiņa to the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the objectives, impact, eligibility criteria, aid intensity, decision of the European Commission of 24 April 2017 in case SA. 43140 (2015/NN) and for damage and actions by law enforcement authorities’! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - examination of a request from Members. Opinion of the Appeals Board Member Jūlija Stepanenko, Didžas Šmita, Alda Gobzema, Viktora Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Jānis Vucanas, Evija Papules, Dana Reiznieces–Ozola, Janīna Jalinska, Linda Liepiņa's request to the Minister of Education and Science Ilga Šuplinska “On uncertainties in raising teachers' salaries as of 1 September 2019 without additional conditions”. On behalf of the Commission - Member Linda Liepiņa.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U40	Colleagues! On 5 June this year, the Panel of Inquiry addressed a request from Members to the Minister of Education and Science Ilga Šuplinska “On uncertainties in raising teachers’ salaries as of 1 September 2019 without additional conditions”. Members wanted to find out why the Ministry has not fulfilled the promise given to teachers to amend regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers by 16 May of this year. 445 on the implementation of the timetable for the increase in teachers' pay as of 1 September 2019. During the meeting of the Commission, we listened to Minister Šuplinska and also to the President of the Trade Union of Education and Science Workers in Latvia, Inga Vanaga. Clearly, it is obvious that there is a major problem in the dialogue between the Ministry and the industry union, as evidenced by the call made by several Members to the parties involved during the meeting of the Commission to bury the axe of war and to establish a respectful dialogue that would build rather than undermine the prestige of teachers. At the meeting of the Commission, the Minister promised to resolve the question of teachers' salaries by 12 June this year. Today is June 13. The issue has not been resolved, although these amendments should have been adopted at the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers on 11 June in accordance with the previously announced agenda. On the basis of this information, the Members of the Commission rejected the request by three votes in favour, nine against and one non-voting. However, given that already after the Commission meeting on 7 June, the Minister for Finance, Mr Reira, made a statement that he would not harmonise the amendments made by the Ministry of Education and Science on raising the minimum salary for teachers, the promise made by Mrs Šuplinsk was only left as an unfulfilled promise, which the Members who made this request also tried to point out during the meeting. That is why, as chairman of the commission, I contacted Mrs Šuplinska and asked him to attend the Saeima sitting today, because I think it would be only normal if the Minister came and told him what the current situation is. According to the information I had, Mrs Šuplinsk was also thinking of coming. I don't know why she doesn't. I do not think that this is about showing the place to Parliament. But you will, of course, be able to debate this here. And maybe the Parliamentary Secretary will give us some information. But... Yeah... At the meeting of the Commission, the Commission did not support this request. As I said, the situation has changed. But on behalf of the Commission, I must invite you not to support this request as a request from the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U41	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U42	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I will also address Minister Šuplinska. I do not think that Parliamentary Secretary should be responsible for this this time, as he performed his duties in accordance with the description of his post. The Minister will have questions. Intro - a small derogation. It's school graduation time. Usually this time is covered almost everywhere with flowers, smiles, and tears of joy. How many of you, honourable Members, have you been to those schools where this year's graduation takes place for the last time? In those schools where output takes place for the last time - there is no sweet smell of flowers, but a crust of pain, misunderstanding, insecurity and disbelief. And at this time, looking at the question of teachers' pay, sometimes it's hard to find words to describe it and unnecessary... once again, it would not have a negative impact on already concerned educators. That's what you're doing. On 5 June, the Minister of Education and Science said in a public interview that the promised increase in remuneration from 1 September of this year is guaranteed. On 7 June, the Minister of Finance announced that the Ministry of Finance does not coordinate the raising of salaries of teachers, but in the Saeima Committee of Petitions, the Minister has guaranteed the examination of the relevant regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers at the meeting of the Government on 11 June. It will no longer be tomorrow or tomorrow, because it was this week, last days. 9. ... On June 10th, after extensive media discussions, we learned that... the Ministry, see, has not given its smart coordination. And it turns out that the guilty are found, those are the others. Well, of course, those other officials. On 11 June, in some public debates by politicians, we find out even more clearly: officials, Mr Latkovsky, have tried to bring the ministers down. Apparently, neither the Minister of Education and Science, the Minister of Finance, nor the politicians of the Saeima and government have the impression that there are such abstract teachers in reality; there are people of Latvia in reality. Yes, teachers are people of Latvia who work, educate the next generation of the country, who, while doing the professional work of teachers, want to feel respected, who would still like to believe in this country and who, by the way, have families. They are Latvian people - also this year and also in closed schools. Why are they intrigued into political intrigue, being punished for not having made any abstract, intelligible reforms for public officials, or being unable to write... or perhaps on behalf of politicians games, however, have not been able to read enough justification... the relevant Cabinet of Ministers Regulations... an annotation of the project? But this is your problem, Mrs Šuplinsk, not the problem of educators. It is your duty to explain, perhaps too much from the reality of life or from the field of education to civil servants in the Ministry of Finance, who believe (please quote): “... the reform itself failed, but ISM only invoiced additional funding. If the work has not yet been done, colleagues have rushed up their pay without any reform.” As a politician, Minister, you have a duty to explain that, for example, 61 schools have been closed over the last seven years, 56 schools have been added to others, 84 schools have been reorganised together, 47 schools have changed their grade, although it is not your merit... Oh yes, this year it is planned to eliminate 13 and reorganise at least several decades. That is why you have to tell, Minister, that Latvian teachers' salaries are lower among OECD countries, about 2.5 times lower than the average in OECD countries. You need to be able to explain and justify how changes in the education system are taking place, and the defamatory rhetoric in the public space does not really have any place at the moment. Yes, the Minister of Education and Science is already in the public space in a devastating and nihilistic way about teachers who are ageing, thinking that their own nature process has not been affected. If someone will ever remember you, Minister, then it is possible that the word for these memories will be “hate”, and I hope you also understand other Latvian dialects and windows. However, despite these facts, sufficient funding for teachers' salaries is not available to this day. Perhaps it is time to understand that all Latvians, by paying taxes and maintaining public administration, do so not in order for ministers to compete in public polemics, but in order to understand that it is their duty to ensure good education for taxpayers' children. The optimisation capacity of the school network is not endless and we will have created other problems without ending up at the right point in time. But you, Mrs Šuplinska, have unfortunately not made the least contribution to solving this problem, rather on the contrary. Obviously, it is much easier to show public humiliating teachers, calling them the worst disciplined audience and continuously sending them to retirement than to show by your example how to work meaningfully and successively, qualitatively and intelligiblely in fulfilling the promised work, including defending the fields of education and the rights of the workers there, rather than just threatening. You too, Mrs Šuplinska, are unable to demonstrate the skills of persuasion, the skills of the team, the skills of reasoning, or the ability to communicate effectively. Otherwise, the Ministry of Finance would not allow you and your work to be publicly laughed at and involved in such an important issue as the remuneration of educators in the political market. Mrs Šuplinska, you demand a lot from teachers and municipalities, but you do not demonstrate competence itself, but you produce hopelessness. Your disrespect for educators has been the highest observed in recent years. As young educators who do not enter the sector, I hope you know that there is not only a shortage of young educators, but there are also schools with long-term vacancies, and more and more. This is your personal responsibility right now. Not the parliamentary secretary, but the minister's personal responsibility. The new policy, which the Latvian society longed for... There is disappointment in everything. The area that you are leading has become a grandson. I still do not understand, either personally or professionally or as a member of the Saeima, how can I not stand up for it, but be ashamed of insulting people in the education sector. Yes, also those in the trade union concerned. Members who defend this approach - I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the way in which decisions are made to raise teachers' salaries will have visible consequences in the future. This is too light to play with Latvian society. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstin’s intermediate call sign.) And a brief final derogation. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstin’s intermediate call sign.) Do you understand, you've been allowed to have a lexical volume? Though my school time of smile and tears continues, I am not overreached by the feelings of honor when I think about the future of education and science. Maybe Mrs. Šuplinska is not in the right place, not closed school educators? Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U43	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U44	Dear colleagues, I understand that in some rows interest in this issue is probably very small, but I will remind you of some documents that are binding: Article 53 of the Education Law, Cabinet of Ministers Order of 15 January 2018 No. 17 “On the timetable for teacher wage growth for the period from 1 September 2018 to 31 December 2022”, Education Development Guidelines 2014-2020. It states that the average wage of education workers is the same compared to the average wage of the country in 2020... These documents set out our duty, together with the government, to work to make sure that the promises made to teachers are fulfilled. But what do we see? We see that despite the decision of the National Trilateral Cooperation Council of 16 April 2019 that the Cabinet of Ministers' regulations should be adopted by 16 May 2019... amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers' regulations on teachers' salaries have already passed for almost a month, but nothing has happened. ( Internouncing call.) Unfortunately, too, honourable colleagues from the coalition have not shown an understanding of how Members should work and the promises should be fulfilled. Because, don't let me lie, on April 12 we had a meeting with a trade union representative and also industry specialists. This meeting was attended by both Mrs Voika and Mr Durish, Mr Bergmanis, Mrs Benhen-Beeken and also by Mr Asheraden. And at this meeting, Inga Vanaga, President of the LIZDA, pointed out that absolutely all the reforms were being carried out. Totally all reforms are carried out by the trade union on the part of the educators. And there should be no problem with the increase in teachers' pay. The version of the 2019 budget was presented to Members. This wording really created uncertainty. This was acknowledged and surprised by the members of the coalition. Seeing this version, the coalition Members said: 'We really do not have any reason to believe our colleagues. These promises, honourable teachers, will really be fulfilled." We see that these promises are not being fulfilled, so, honourable colleagues, I want to understand your attitude towards educators. If you, for example, delay a payment in a bank or, I don't know, even a management bill, you get a penalty, you get a text message, you get a reminder, and if you don't do it for longer, then you get problems. But you... In this way, you show your attitude towards teachers, your cynical attitude, and also show the younger generation that teachers are really the most vulnerable group that needs to be rewarded every year, almost every year. Despite the fact that all documents state what needs to be done. It is not understandable, honourable colleagues, whom you are still waiting for from the teachers. Maybe you want them to sort out the financial system as well. Perhaps you want them also to take on administrative reform on their shoulders. Perhaps you will make new rules for teachers so that they do not raise their salary. Despite the promises made to Members during the meeting of the Request Commission that the whole issue will be resolved on 11 June, we see that today, 13 June, it is not on the agenda of the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers. Therefore, I think that not only Mrs Šuplinska should have been here and we have had to answer the questions, but also Mr Reira. Because this team work is not understandable. It's not a team job. That's the way a other colleague can throw in. Because it was time for Mr Reira to put forward proposals and point out some shortcomings, if they really were the reason. But nothing was done. And in the end, we are now in a situation where teachers still only receive promises. I call on you to support this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U45	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Request Commission? None. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Jūlija Stepanenko, Didža Šmita, Alda Gobzema, Viktora Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Jānis Vucanas, Evija Papules, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Janina Yalinska, Linda Liepiņa Minister of Education and Science Ilga Šuplinska “On uncertainties in raising teachers’ salaries as of 1 September 2019 without additional conditions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -30, against -54, refrains - not. The request is rejected. We're in the process of examining draft laws. Draft law - Amendments to the Law on Scientific Activities, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Jānis Cielēns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U46	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! During the meeting of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science on 12 June, we worked on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Scientific Activities”, which would ensure the continued operation of existing expert commissions until new expert commissions were set up. 14 proposals have been received for the second reading. 1. - Legal Bureau's proposal, which states that the expert's rights are granted by the Latvian Scientific Council. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U47	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U48	2. - A proposal by Anita Muižniece, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science. Partially supported, included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U49	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U50	3. - the proposal of the Education, Culture and Science Commission on the composition of the Latvian Scientific Council, which states that each Scientific Council of Latvia has one representative. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U51	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U52	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U53	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U54	5. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science relating to doctoral programmes implemented by universities. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U55	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U56	6. - A proposal by Anita Muižniece, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science. Partially supported, included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U57	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U58	7. - a proposal by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science specifying the terms of office of the experts' commissions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U59	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U60	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U61	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U62	9. - the proposal of the Education, Culture and Science Commission, which provides that the qualification criteria of the Latvian Scientific Council experts in the field of science, their evaluation and the procedure for granting the rights of the Latvian Scientific Council experts are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U63	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U64	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal by Anita Muižniece, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science. Partially supported, included 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U65	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U66	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U67	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U68	12. - A proposal by Anita Muižniece, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science. Partially supported, included 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U69	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U70	13. - the proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which provides for the granting of the rights of experts of the Council of Science of Latvia by the date of entry into force of the events of the Cabinet of Ministers referred to in Section 18(8) of this Law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U71	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U72	And 14, lastly, the proposal of the Commission on Education, Culture and Science, which states when the law enters into force. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U73	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U74	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U75	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Scientific Activities, second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U76	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U77	Draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U78	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Members, honourable Members, At its meeting on 12 June, the Foreign Affairs Commission examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia” and prepared it for the second reading. In total, we received 23 proposals. Most of them were from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima - more legal technical clarifications, defining the areas of responsibility, competence. They also linked the regulation of AML and the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorism financing, including... 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U79	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U80	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U81	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U82	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U83	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U84	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U85	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U86	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U87	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U88	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U89	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U90	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U91	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U92	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U93	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U94	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U95	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U96	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U97	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U98	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U99	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U100	That's... I was wrong? Now 12, huh?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U101	Proposal No 12.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U102	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U103	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U104	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U105	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U106	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U107	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U108	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U109	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U110	16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U111	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U112	17. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “What is the proposal about?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U113	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U114	18. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U115	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U116	19. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U117	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U118	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U119	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U120	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U121	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U122	22. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U123	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U124	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U125	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U126	On behalf of the Commission, I call on Members to support the second, final reading of the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia”.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U127	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia” at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. ‘ Amendments to the Health Care Financing Act, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U128	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! In the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, we have examined proposals for second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Health Care”. By adopting these amendments to the law, citizens will have the right to receive health care services within the framework of state compulsory health insurance, as until 2021, regardless of contributions made. The adoption of these amendments does not lead to the introduction of the so-called 'two-health services basket system'. 1. is the proposal of the Minister of Health Ilze Viņķele, which provides for the exclusion of point 6 of the Transitional Provisions of the Health Care Financing Law, which sets out the procedure for the voluntary contributions to health insurance of persons not subject to compulsory insurance under that Law for the period starting from 1 January 2018 in order to be entitled to health care services within the framework of state compulsory health insurance. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U129	I see Mrs Čakša saying that the debate will start after a break, because there are less than three minutes left until the break. So let us start the debate on this proposal after a break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Time for notification. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U130	Budget and financial (tax) commission - both those who are and those who become! Photo will take place at 10.35 Yellow Hall. Request to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U131	Name of member of the Saeima Maria Golubeva to read the results of the registration as soon as they have been prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U132	Not registered: Valery Agešins... And, Uldis Plantis... ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ), Gundars Dauge, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Jānis Dūklavs, Aivars Geidāns, Inga Goldberga, Inese Ikstena, Ivans Klementjevs, Armands Krauze, Linda Ozola, Ramona Petravičs and Inguns Ribena.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U133	Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U134	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber! We're gonna keep sitting after the break. On the agenda: Draft law on amendments to the Health Care Financing Act, proposal 1, on which we are starting a debate. The name to Anda Chakša.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U135	Hello, dear colleagues! Madam President of the Saeima. That's a very interesting law. Does healthcare now provide all the needs that our citizens need? No, no! Is it related to one, two, three or even four baskets? No, no! Does Latvia have one tax regime? No, no! Is there a lack of money in healthcare? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “No!” ) Yes! Did the new political forces come with a promise that health workers will have double wages, all citizens will have enough services - visits to a doctor? Yes! That this service will be provided more fairly... Is it fairer to pay only one tax regime for healthcare? What, then, are these amendments to point 6 of the transitional provisions? What is it? The possibility to participate voluntarily in health care contributions if you are in a different tax regime. Is that voluntary good or bad? Is the whole world black or white? Is the yellow a sniffer than the others? At first reading, a proposal was made to postpone the deadline until 2021. This led to the idea that there was a really new, innovative proposal to get to one package of services, that there was a new, innovative proposal to reduce this catastrophic lack of money in healthcare, but it turns out that this innovative solution is simply to delete this point. Let's go out and there's no problem! Basically... At first reading, I said that the rooster is in the belly of foxes, but at the moment I have to say that it is an empty barrel with a slogan of advertising that there will be one basket, but, in essence, there is no offer! This is a proposal to simply delete. I cannot support it. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U136	Name to Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U137	Dear colleagues, Paragraph 7 of the Transitional Provisions of this Law reads: “The Cabinet of Ministers shall prepare and submit to the Saeima, before 1 August 2018, a draft law on criteria for the inclusion of health care service in the scope of state-paid health care services and criteria for a decision to conclude a contract on the provision of state-paid health care services.” Here one of the main issues is the question of tariffs, the updating of tariffs. Here, we are waiting from the Ministry of Health for solutions to be proposed from 1 January 2020. Not from 2021, not from 2022, but from 2020 onwards! This week’s magazine “Ir” writes... under the heading ‘ Treat on debt’... This problem, which we have had for many years, with regard to the pricing of treatment services that do not correspond to reality. And unfortunately, there are side effects - there are queues with doctors, there are fewer access to services, less quality and so on. This must be corrected, otherwise, I must say, it will be difficult to talk about putting an additional EUR 100 or more million into the health budget in the autumn if at least work on this issue is not started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U138	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U139	President-in-Office. Members! I don't want to be very harsh, but... I am very, very afraid that today, there is a time of the end of the development of the medical sector and a standstill phase. When you look at the time when this offer is being transferred, the question is now: 2022? Are you serious about that? For I also understand from the Minister that then there will be all forms of business taxed, which will be additional to healthcare. In 2022... I can remind you if someone forgets: there are elections in 2022. There must be an extremely strong backbone in order to raise some kind of tax during the election year. I know, of course, not only do I believe, but I know! - That Mrs. Viņķele has one, but... Is it realistic: to get support? Probably not. So this offer, saying that everything is bad and that one basket is better, and that there must be other forms, on the one hand, of course, looks extremely sympathetic, but then we do it now rather than in 2022, because money will have to be found next year. Medical staff will be on a first line at the time the budget is drawn up. I fear that there will also be an exact reservation: “Let us wait for 2022! At the moment, medicine will not be able to add anything more." I just want to come back and tell you how it was... and recall, then, what are the provisions of these second amendment that existed at that time. This is best illustrated by the example of Member Raimonds Bergmanis, who has paid a relatively small democratic contribution for his non-working wife because of this possibility. In those forms of business where taxes are very small, or assuming that a person who is capable of work does not choose to work (and can do so if he can be supported), everyone has the opportunity to pay – brother for his sister, son for his mother and so on. Now we are going to have only business forms where everything will be taxed, health tax will be imposed, and there will be no other option. So the question is, is it going to cover everything? I believe that micro-enterprises can be taxed, only micro-enterprises will have any meaning at all, and this form of business must be eliminated. Individual work You know that, according to statistics, there are tens of thousands of small farms with extremely low taxes: they are, in fact, home farms that work with more support for their families. They too had the opportunity to get into healthcare and pay. Do we want to deceive anyone right now? Taxation will not solve anything. This is just an excuse to put a stop to the matter, because listening to all the proposals that each minister promises, which will be in the next budget... I will allow the respected coalition to reiterate, first of all, that health care may not expect any increase in funding at this time. Secondly, either there will be a huge increase in taxes that we will be forced to do on this budget... There's no smoke without a fire... even though Mr Zakatistova denied it, but you have had a discussion on raising VAT on the agenda, or there will be very great disputes that will end with nothing. However, I call for thought to be given to and not to support such a delay.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U140	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U141	Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Keeping in mind what Mr Kučinska started to present, I also believe that the damage does not mean building. Minister Viņķele made a very loud request before taking up the post of Minister for Health that all health system problems will be resolved with the abolition of two baskets. And what's happening right now... Yes, there is a proposal to withdraw two amendments, but only in 2021. This means, in essence, that the healthcare sector and patients will have to wait for some improvement for at least a few years. This draft law, in general, reminds us of the saying that we have to be quick, hasty, hasty to stay right here. It's one grief. The other thing is the draft laws and what is done in this way. There is an unfair burden on those taxpayers who work under the general regime. There is already a saying that those who are willing to carry are willing to recharge. But what about this bill? With the introduction of the two baskets system, one per cent of the national social security contributions would have to be directed towards health care, which was increased for people working under the general scheme. In other regimes, the workers had the opportunity to join the system on a voluntary basis with a full service basket. With this draft law, we are abolishing the obligation to join in health insurance for those who work in other tax regimes and those who pay one percent of the general regime... they don't change life - we pay more, but we get the same as everyone else who doesn't pay in the insurance system at all. I think this is a real basis for judicial proceedings for any person who is currently forced to pay an additional tax by receiving the same range of services as everyone else who does not... who are currently in a deteriorating situation. That is the reason to challenge this Prime Minister's offer. If the flag had been raised so high that the two baskets system had been poor and had to be changed, then the Minister had to come with such a proposal. What she is doing at the moment is using a method that is marked by the delay of the so famous word "procrastination" or problem. That means we go deeper into the ears. I also cannot support such an approach, especially in view of the fact that the health sector is facing very many problems and there is still a lack of funding. A normal society is based on the principle of solidarity that those who can pay for those who cannot. But if those who can pay for those who cannot and those who do not, it is no longer solidarity, it is injustice.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U142	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U143	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Honourable Members! I am so strange to hear that the members of the Greens/Farmers' Union express their indignation at the parliamentary tribunal about the fact that the product they have created is still... is not being removed at a speed and is simply being stopped for a while; it seems that now they really don't like it anymore. I would like to build on this. — Dep. D. Interdependence of Reizniece-Ozola.) but on the facts. I want to remind you. In its assessment of 7 March 2018, the European Commission already expressed caution in relation to the planned changes, stressing that some citizens risk losing their current approach to healthcare if this new system is introduced. It is also said that the health situation of the people concerned will deteriorate, treatment will be delayed even further and the use of emergency services will increase. Once again, on 23 May 2018, the European Commission explained that the high proportion of direct payments and the distribution of health services in two baskets - the full cart and the minimum cart - can reduce access to health care for different groups and lead to negative health outcomes. So it is clear here that this new approach to healthcare is unfair and unequal. At the moment, the Ministry of Health, together with Minister Ilzi Viņķelis, is trying to resolve this issue at the forefront (Dep. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “She said that coalition does not allow her to work!” ), to reduce this injustice. Given that the new functionality of the information system had to be operational at the beginning of the year, this did not happen. We well remember that the Saeima decided in two readings to postpone until July the introduction of the principle of two service baskets in healthcare. It is not necessary to change the entire Health Care Financing Act as it requires healthcare funding to be raised to a certain level of gross domestic product over a certain period of time. The law also provides guarantees for an increase in the salaries of medical staff. At the same time, the current Health Care Financing Law divides Latvian citizens into correct and wrong taxpayers, but doctors become tax inspectors. Therefore, colleagues, it is very important to postpone this rule at the moment... still. And that is the suggestion. ( Internouncing call.) Anyone earning income from work will pay social insurance contributions to healthcare equal to one per cent of social insurance contributions. Meanwhile, persons who do not enter the insurance system as employed at the beginning of the year will have to pay one per cent of the minimum wage for social security contributions, which would now amount to 51 euros per year. The representative of the World Health Organization Tamāšs Evetovits expressed his support for the proposed changes, as well as expressed Latvia's wish to apply as much as possible one per cent of the state social insurance contribution to all groups of taxpayers and to introduce a compulsory, small payment to those who will not be included in social insurance. So, honourable colleagues, I call for support for this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U144	The name of the Member Anda Chakša for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U145	Dear colleagues, Mr. Durishi, your card... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I hope that someone really wrote that speech to you, not you yourself. Otherwise, I am sad because it seems that you have never heard or understood anything because the story is not about the bad or the good. But if you come with a clear proposal that you need a single shopping cart, do it, not now tell us how we will not do it for another two years, because we do not really know how to do it! At the moment, you are risking that doctors and sisters will have to reduce their wages, because 85 million paid out of one percentage point of national social security contributions last year may have to be reimbursed back, because the next proposal is that those who have made voluntary contributions will have to repay it back. And what you're saying about two baskets... Yes, one basket is needed, but it needs very clear funding for healthcare... Then do it. Do now, not in two years, and don't be fools!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U146	I closed the debate. In the name of the commission, what is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U147	In the Commission, proposal 1 is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U148	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal submitted by the Minister for Health, Viņķelis! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U149	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Health Ilze Viņķele provides that the National Health Service shall, by 31 December of this year, ensure the reimbursement of the health insurance contributions referred to in the first paragraph of Article 12 of this Law paid before 1 July 2019 in the account from which they were received. Also delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to develop by 31 March 2020 and submit draft law on the introduction of a uniform amount of state-paid health care services and comprehensive state compulsory health insurance to the Saeima. The Commission supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U150	Let us start a debate. The name to Anda Chakša.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U151	An excellent proposal! I congratulate you, Mr. Bergman. You're gonna get back this year. But, Mr Dūritis, you will not get anything because this proposal provides that those who have made voluntary contributions will get all the contributions back, but those who have made one per cent of the national social security contributions will continue to pay for the others when they are under full taxation. Very good! Very good proposal! Eighty-five million paid last year, which was assigned to the remuneration of doctors and nurses, is now in the process of legal proceedings, because anyone can go and ask for this one per cent national social security contribution to be reimbursed. Ninety-three million, which is equally passed on this year to the remuneration of doctors and nurses, will also be returned? That is the spirit of this proposal? I think it is an excellent proposal, it is a new policy. Let's go!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U152	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U153	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Already when the government passed this bill on to the Saeima for consideration, we... Speak 'no' and try to argue why we say 'no'. And after Mr. Dūrišs spoke, I was convinced that you... at least Mr Dūrish has not fully understood what we are talking about. Question... because, in a way, it's from our side even that... I don't know why we do it, but... However, it is a help for the coalition itself, because you are already setting up doctors, the health care system is now under the blow with the fact that there is simply a lack of money in this system. The question is, after all, about money. You're talking about one... two baskets. Many coalition partners, who are currently in the coalition, have contributed to the development of this system. The debate was very harsh during the election year, and there was also Mrs Viņķele, a Member, and I think she was very respectful at that time of saying that she was 'no'. Even after the elections, the mistake of the ministers, she spoke against and said that she would have her own vision, offer. At the moment, by saying that the old system is bad and not offering a new place, you simply cut out the bar in your own budget. And it is the doctor's wages that the entire health care system is now under its blow. If you don't understand, then... Forgive me, what about one or two baskets? It's not a story! The story is that you say that one system is bad and you simply cancel it. But nothing is offered instead. There's that big problem. It's enough to promise my bird that falls from heaven, but come... These are unpleasant decisions, but they have to be made. But you're not doing this right now. You are simply saying that we will be speaking in 2021. Colleagues, you will be talking about this in October, breaking your head to get money for healthcare staff! Mr Eglišs spoke about money anyway, because the question is ultimately about money. Where will you get the money to pay salaries to ensure the necessary funding for health care? Colleagues, wake up! This is... by its very nature, it should not be supported. We need to give back to the government, so that the government works, so that the government really comes with a real offer. Unsatisfactory questions will be. And this question... Well, very nice... Stand still and say, these bad guys did... Where, then, is the offer to put instead? There is simply no such offer. Mrs. Viņķele, whatever... she offered something, but it did not come to the Saeima. Give back to the government so that the government comes with a concrete offer! And Mr Bondara will not have to break the head to find the money in the health budget, because in the end it is about the money. You're trying to avoid it by calling... Mr. Durishi called all the experts there... that its old system is bad, still knows someone else... Well, and then what will you tell the doctors who will have to pay the wages? You will say: “The old system was bad, so we cancelled it and you will reduce your wages this year.” Or: “All our promises remain just hanged in the air.” Colleagues! We need some solution. You are simply doing the problem right now - and that's the worst! - 2021. Now wake up, now!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U154	Name to Member Daniel Pavilut.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U155	Hello, fellow Members, again! You know, the opposition - it's a special genre, though. Well, let's start with the universal soldier, Mr. Valaiņš. (Laughter) I feel like I'm... I don't think he's talking about all the questions here. I have the feeling he's going through in my dreams. In the morning, I turned on the radio: “In the name of the association of big cities... “ It is not mentioned with a word that a Member is still in opposition. There's something about the furnaces or something else if. Here again there is a view of everything. ( Internouncing call.) Mrs. Chachsh has a good sense of work here, burning in the right anger from the tribunal... “Re, as I gave them, to my group.” I think everyone is already seeing it. Colleagues! This is, of course, a convincing theatre that the opposition is taking place here, but I have a bad suspicion that it is not as crazy as Mr. Krištopan once said about the renditioners... There is a widespread view that the voter does not remember anything longer than three months. I think everyone remembers wonderfully how we came to this correction of errors, as you introduced this system of two baskets, which, as international organisations have said, is unfair. The health situation is getting worse. We correct these errors. You're telling us that we're... We don't pay back one percent... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Čakša’s intermediate call.) Listen to me now! Try to see what I'm saying!... That's one percent. Why is that? Why didn't you immediately introduce their contributions to all of them? Then we should not now tackle any discrimination. Our coalition has said that we will make tax corrections for complexes, while at the same time solving all the problems that you, Mr Kučinski's government, have inherited. We are really going to do this! We will do this when the tax correction is ready when it is justified. We will do it at that point. Please don't think of us or people in Latvia as fools who don't remember how these mistakes were made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U156	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U157	Dear Members, Mr. Pavilut! However, I cannot fail to respond, given that everyone who knows me knows that I have not been involved in populism before or at the moment. And it's not a game of opposition. It is simply a warning of a crisis that may occur if future actions relating to funding are not taken in time. If I come back in the past and answered the question, why wasn't there a single basket... I know very well the OECD studies mentioned above, I know the views of the World Bank, I know what the concept was and how I could try to introduce one basket, but at the moment we had to make a difference - to raise VAT or... one per cent of the state social security compulsory contribution, the government had no allied. Everyone knew that it was an unpopular decision that we would cut ourselves into it. I knew that the annual ratings would fall, that we would give you an opportunity to go to the elections, criticising everything that was done and not. When these first envelopes, which I left, end... telling you that you've made everything up... Are we ready? Probably also with mistakes. But we have done so in order to remove both the health and education sectors. It has never been popular. And all we ask is that you continue to continue... I know that Mrs Viņķele can do a great deal and she would probably have come with some concept - perhaps better than what we could have agreed on in large compromises and disputes at the time. But put aside the question and say, what have you done there... Sometime will come when the bills will have to be paid to you! And the first envelope will no longer work. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U158	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U159	However, I would like to make a few accusations clear. Mr Valaiņš, if you have listened to and followed the whole procedure, which happened when the Minister for Health was Mrs Čakša, then you certainly understand and remember that this new system that you have come up with is still not working. The family has been forced to postpone it and to postpone it because of this unjust, absurd system of two baskets. Experts do not criticise the old system, which is still in operation, where all citizens have access... good, worse or better, but everyone has the same health care. What would we have done with the many tens of thousands of people who had not paid the payment introduced by the new rule? They would be thrown out of the health care basket! They would not receive healthcare services today. It was the only thing we could do to delay this injustice for some time while the Ministry of Health arranged the system while the Ministry of Health also reviewed the tariffs of the National Health Service. In order to prevent any injustice that could be brought about by the introduction of this rule. I understand that it is very difficult for Mrs. Chash to recognise as a former Minister for Health... and also as a medicine to admit their mistakes. It is very difficult to do this, but it must be courageous. This must be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U160	The name of the Member Anda Chakša for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U161	It's not hard for me to admit my mistakes... Because only if you admit your mistakes makes you smarter. I'm sorry that Mr. Pavluta is slapping my smile. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Paviluts: “Do not hurt!” ) But what I do not like most in this discussion is that in one boiler everything is thrown in. Healthcare - like the education system, like many other systems - is a system in which something needs to be understood. It's not exactly that you can add to the tomato sauce a coke or a sweetened drink, mix with a mixer and have a good health care system. Don't be that way! There's something to understand, Mr. Durish. You too now, the last speech... Put everything together. Because if we are talking about funding, then is the question: will the suspension of the law for two years in any way improve the availability of these services to citizens? Absolutely nothing! ( Internouncing call.) You should ask another question: what will you do next year, when there is an additional 150 million needed just to keep nurses in their jobs? Will the suspension of these contributions or the suspension of the entry into force of this law change? There is no discussion about whether one or two baskets... if it is good or bad. Yes, I agree, the World Health Organisation's reservations are justified - one basket is needed. But that takes money! The story is about it. Have you found funding? No, no! Have you spoken loud? Yes! But maybe then put those things together with their speaking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U162	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U163	Mr. Pavilut! I think these discussions... Today we have made our position clear. And we are probably not going to support this bill and we remain in the government's vision. But who was right in these discussions... I think when you have to talk about demographic issues, "3 × 500", about your initiatives... we will be coming back to this very soon - in October - and I will call on all the Members of the Saeima to remember the discussion that took place today from this tribunal. Because the question is, after all, about the money - which place in the budget... How will you fill this gap?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U164	The name to Member Daniel Pavilut for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U165	Dear colleagues! Your position is absolutely clear: look... No, listen to our words, don't look at our works. We have not forgotten, colleagues. And I think most of society has not forgotten either. When you talk about the budget, you ask us, “Where will you find the money?” I think Mrs Čakša is perfectly aware that in the Republic of Latvia there is a healthcare system financed from general budget revenue and this additional payment far does not cover the increase in funding which is necessary and which was also foreseen for the sector. You ask us: where will we make the money in the future? We'll have to find it! Let me remind you: your outgoing government left the draft budget, which has a long-term, more precisely medium-term effect, that all money in the future... The increasing money in the budget has already been distributed. You're not leaving us. But it didn't even help. ( Internouncing call.) It didn't even help! Despite your three years forward distribution of the entire budget increase, your results in the parliamentary elections were as they were. The public assessed your good works in this way. We will create this funding, there will be money for further increases in healthcare funding. We will correct your mistakes. We'll do it, we'll do what you didn't have to do. This payment, which is necessary... a joint payment so that everyone would have paid for health care... all tax regimes. We will do this together with other tax amendments - complexes, intelligent and far-sighted. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U166	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U167	When Mr Kučinska became Prime Minister, the first budget was created with a negative fiscal space, because the previous governments had allocated the budget for all the following years to meet the needs of both Unity, National Alliance and other political forces. That was the starting position. We started working at a time when the health sector... In those years when Mr. Pavlut was also a minister and a member of the government... was down to the clown. The government of Kučinsk had to give up a great many other priorities, other needs, in order to provide funding for the health sector. And we did. Last year, more than 200 million... Health funding for the first time exceeded billions. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldmans: “Dana, no lie!” ) But with money alone really all the problems cannot be solved. A system must be put in place and it must be ensured that the whole of society participates equally, in good faith, in the financing of health. We offered our vision of how you can do this, but you don't like it, you have a different view of how you should deal with this issue. Then come and do it. Once again, the biggest problem is that you are not doing but speaking. You do everything for tomorrow as a Scarlett who says, “I’ll think about it tomorrow!” More precisely, by 2021, in the hope that the voter will not remember what you have promised by 2021 and that the voter will not ask you to honour these promises, and that the voter will forgive you the childish attitude that you have been baffling for several months now: “We had a terrible amount of promises, we have to do them, but its old government has not left the money!” Well, old government didn't work to fulfill your promises and pre-election populism! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U168	Name to Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U169	Just a small amendment to what the previous speaker said about 200 million - additional funding for the health sector. I must say right here: it was at the expense of the budget deviation, so that not in pure form, and this budget derogation... we are bound by it today and... so thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U170	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman. ( The utterances: “500! ” ; “500!” ; “500!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U171	Hello! I just fell into my ears by the text of the finance minister of the lie champions that there was some populism and so on before the elections. You know, at this moment, the European Commission, the OECD and everyone is saying that you have led the people into poverty (Dep. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “Fif hundredt!” ), people are really dying (Applause.) , and you refuse for a long time. — Dep. A. Gobzem: “Fif hundredths!” )... You're not just lying from the triple... because you know that the European Commission has harmonised the derogation for health financing. No money was found (Dep. D. Reizniece-Ozola and dep. A. Gobzem: “Fif hundredths!” ; “Fif hundredt!” ), but it was simply at the expense of the deficit. In fact, at the expense of the deficit. But you continued not to increase the tax - exempt minimum (Dep. Mr. Reizniece-Ozola: “You asked Dombrovskis... What has been spent in previous years?’ ) in order to be able to run in your localities... and, among them, other people who sit next to you... continue to buy voters' voices by giving benefits rather than leaving people money on their hands. (The intermediate names of the opposition Members: "Fif hundredt!" ) Please don't come to the platform and don't lie that you found some money because it's a deficit for someone... I don't care. what you created by harmonising this derogation of 200 million... will have someone to pay. And now there is an immediate need to raise the inexhaustible minimum that you have not done. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “We doubled the unlimited minimum!” ) Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U172	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U173	I'm a little confused. You say you have a lot of problems... Development/About! you have to deal with, and there is an inheritance that you cannot solve immediately. I understand so that the priority of the problems is to give back 40 million in connection with the immanent's property that does not come to other people - that is what you are ready to do today. 40 million you find actually not our people. You can do this today! On the other hand, when it comes to our people who have health problems and needs today, you need to delay them for some time. I do not really understand - why are such priorities? Why is it not your priority to solve the problems of our human health and health system, to introduce improvements today? The other thing is important. I think we all need to be honest about saying: while formally we have free medicine, actually free medicine... Nobody's got anything in time. And this proposal to postpone the problem means to receive a free medical service - that you wait as long as you simply die (I am sorry for vulgarity). I think that these problems need to be addressed today. They need to be addressed today. What you offer... A very honest answer would be: "We propose to postpone this problem so that then... When we raise all taxes next time... “ Because your plan is really simple, you plan to raise taxes and to solve something at the expense of it. But this is a very simplified method! The existence of problems cannot be solved by a tax mechanism alone. You've already had a mechanism for raising taxes at your last meeting... You tried at the last sitting. This is a more complex, more complex solution. Health care also needs to come up with more complex solutions. Postponing the problem therefore does not mean solving the problem. I would call for Development/About! to act not in the interests of Edgars Jaunupas wedding guest Suharenko and to direct 40 million to the Jewish community (although I would support the Jewish community if it were to bring it into Latvia's state budget, various projects, funds), but... I would call, however, for support for the changes in the healthcare system today, rather than postponing them. Let us be honest: what you are lobbying today is in the interests of individual individuals, individual organisations. That is your priority today. Let us be honest, your priority today is not to improve the healthcare system now. That is why your proposal is to delay the problem once again, on the pretext that it was sometime in another government... I want to remind you that sometime, someone else in government... Who have we had the welfare minister from which party? From the same lot from which... The Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance are now from the New Unity. The Minister for Welfare was Reir, Jānis Reirs, who for many years has been in power for us, who has also served for some time as Minister for Health. Historically... Hasn't your party member Ilze Viņķele been that way? Isn't that the problem with the health system because, in fact, you haven't been able to solve it yourself while you've been in power? Tell the honest people: “We don’t know the solution. Our only solution is to raise taxes. We are going to raise taxes in a year's time, so we are asking a question today. When we raise taxes, we will try to solve something." This is your offer today from the Saeima Tribe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U174	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add? ( The box “No! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U175	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say honestly that the proposal of the Minister for Health, Ilze Viņķele, has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U176	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal submitted by the Minister for Health, Viņķelis! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's not 10, it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U177	And 3. - the proposal from the Minister for Health, Ilze Viņķelis. It is supported, and that means that the law enters into force on the day following that of its publication.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U178	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U179	I call on you to vote in favour of this draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U180	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Health Care"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 73, for - 8, for - 1. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U181	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U182	Dear colleagues, A number of amendments have been tabled to the agenda of the sitting. Members Stepanenko, Papaule, Švecova, Liepāja, Gobzems, Sprūde and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the law “On the State Budget for 2019””. ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U183	Dear colleagues, We want some improvement in relations between the sector and the ministry, the entire government. In fact, these promises, with which teachers have already been cheated three times... Initially, it was a promise to include in the budget an appropriate provision for raising teachers' salaries. Then there was a promise to amend the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, and then another promise to extend the deadline. We do not really want teachers to be the subject of any political market or performance. We want peace and confidence in the sector that teachers' salaries will be increased. We must not play with teachers' welfare, with teachers' feelings and continue to shock teachers by dealing with relations between the ministry and government, so our proposal does not have budgetary implications. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “How does it not affect?Oh, no, no, no, no, This is a budget law!’ ) Our proposal only concerns the specific wording of the budget article. That is the version that we also spoke to you, honourable colleagues from the coalition, who took part in the meeting on 12 April with the representatives of the LIZDA. The clarification of this article makes it very simple that teachers' salaries should be raised... this money is intended to raise teachers' salaries, not something else, as it is currently written. The honourable colleagues Inese Voika, Ilmārs Dūritis and others also noticed this. This proposal provides for an opportunity for the State Audit Office to look well, on which Mr Reira, for example, said that the State Audit Office will prove to us that we have not implemented the reforms. Teachers carry out more than 20 different reforms and have also demonstrated this at their meeting on 12 April. If one of the coalition's representatives had objected to the implementation of the reforms, if Mr Asheraden had argued that something had not been done... None of you, honourable colleagues, opposed it. Everyone said yes, it's probably true. Therefore, given that teachers must not be held hostage for a variety of cases that are independent of them, we call for the wording of Article 58 of the budget to be clarified and for these discussions to be really closed and for teachers to have absolute peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U184	“Pret” has applied to speak to Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U185	Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Only nothing, please!” ) Nice! Good job! Good job! Opaque edges. You made panic, a rude panic in Latvia that now the problems have come to an end! From 1 September, the minimum salary for teachers will not be increased! Excellent work in public space! Great job! That's it! I also congratulate our colleagues in the opposition on this. The first success in this Saeima. That's great! But at the same time, I'm also disappointed. So what are you changing the budgetary law for 2019? It would have taken a quick look at the Constitution and wrote such an article in the Constitution! Well, that would be crazy! Well, that would be real! Well, then it would be... Well, so that... Well, you can't overturn it! Well, you can't! Well, referendum then! Well, then the people go on the streets! Right? The honourable opposition! The only thing I would like to say to you is what I would like to say in this educational context: you are insane - well, abnormal! - panic that has no reason at all because it's happening. The good news is: everything is going on and it's going to happen. ( The box “How Can You Do Not Salise? ”)Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ I don’t really want to — I don’t want to! - the situation in which children continue to “production” in Latvian schools, the only skill of which is to fill in an application for social benefit. ( Milestones.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U186	Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On State Budget 2019” on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 29, 50, abstain - not. Draft law shall not be included on the agenda of the sitting. Members of Parliament will be asked to include in the agenda the draft decision “On Revocation from the Commission for Sustainable Development of the Saeima Member Didžas Šmits” on the agenda of the sitting. Do Members have objections (Interface: Yes!) ) against such an amendment to the agenda? We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision on the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima Member Didžas Šmits from the Commission for Sustainable Development! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft decision is not on the agenda of the sitting. So... The next draft decision - "On the election of the Saeima Member Didžas Šmits to the Commission of Petitions" - is therefore not to be considered. Then the next item is the draft decision on the withdrawal of Ms. Iveta Benhen-Beeken from education, culture (Interface: Debate!) )... “... No, this is not to be considered. It's not just unvoting... not only voting but also not being considered. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Medicines cause noise.) No debate is possible on the draft decision. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “How is it not possible?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ‘) Honourable Members! Let's keep going. Members Ģirgens, Kursīte, Krapāne, Pucens, Vitenbergs and Puga are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On the withdrawal of Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken from the Education, Culture and Science Commission”. Are Members against (Interface: Yes!) ) the following amendment to the agenda? We have to vote. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Aldi, go to the debate!” ) Please call us! We will vote on the inclusion of the draft decision on the agenda of the Saeima sitting of Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Members Ģirgens, Kursīte, Krapāne, Pucens, Wittenberg, Puga and others ask that the draft decision on the election of Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission be placed on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. The order of business has been amended. Members Ģirgens, Kursīte, Krapāne, Vitenbergs, Puga, Benhena-Beken and others ask that the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Ērika Pucken from the European Commission be put on the agenda. Mr. Gobzem, do you want to have a debate? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) (Interim: “He will talk about” or “to”?) ) “About” or “to”? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “The Against!” ) So “no” has applied to speak to Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U187	The rule of law, without compromises, is over. A compromise of non-justice has begun. It could describe a new government that serves KPV LV as a fertiliser. This vote on Mr Pucena will be a clear contrast to the vote on Didzis Schmidt, who also wanted to replace the Commission. It turns out that only those Members who are in the coalition have the right to do so, and this is guaranteed by the political party KPV LV, although it was the KPV LV that promised, before the elections, not only that it would take into account the opposition's opinion, but also that it would be different. I don't think it's like these old men. What you are doing is you've become exactly the same as those old ones in a few months. That's exactly the same! You're nothing different. Your only promise is that we will now be as old as we are, but when we approach the elections, then maybe let us turn out and say that we are still young. Maybe we're going to stick to our promises closer to the elections, then maybe we're going to think about leaving the new Unity Government, then maybe finally we're going to start tackling the issue of abolishing the OIC and everything else... Today, you have prevented my colleague Digim Schmidt from replacing the commission, as my colleague Julia Stepanenko did in the past. You have restricted the right of a Member of the Saeima guaranteed by the Constitution to replace the work of a commission that all Members of Parliament have. You have done this for one reason: you are afraid that the Commission on Requests will change the weight of votes and could be in such a terrible situation that ministers should come to Parliament to explain to the public one of the issues relating, for example, to the education sector. Then there's the question: what are you afraid of? Are you afraid of your work? If you were to do everything correctly, to do everything for Latvian society, you would, however, allow the ministers of your government to be proud of their work every week in a parliamentary tribunal. But obviously you can't, obviously you must be afraid that your ministers from your coalition could be called by the Appeals Commission and had nothing to do with them. Your fears relate only to the fact that you should be accountable to the Latvian public. And that's what you call a new policy! How long will you continue to throw on the New Unity? Until you first get a rating in the history of Latvia, will have reached zero percent? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “It can’t be! Even if there is one person, it is already above zero!” ) I think you must finally open your eyes and stop being a fertiliser of the New Unity. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: “A for you!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U188	Mr. Valains, will you talk about it? ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U189	I think that this is a completely logical, legitimate issue and that the Group will wish to withdraw Mr Pucena from the Commission on European Affairs. This should be supported. ( Internouncing call.) But the problem that Mr Gobzem spoke about when he spoke against this draft decision is not about Mr Pucene, although the question of Mr Pucene has been raised. I remember the previous parliamentary term. And in this name too, as we all see, there is! - independent Members. Their numbers continue to rise and are likely to increase further. And that (Deep. Feldman: “You’re going out?” Medicines cause noise.) ... These issues should, however, be addressed in some way. I remember that the previous Saeima, however, respected their wishes and they were elected to the commissions in which they wanted to work. Regarding Julia Stepanenko. She left the group before there was this group agreement on the allocation of commissions. And to ignore now... I think this is very wrong: to ignore the wishes of Members... They've collected 10 signatures... operate within one Commission or another. I think that such draft decisions should be supported. And this draft decision must also be supported. But in the future, these independent Members... Well, at least, the Council of Groupings should come together and decide what we are doing in relation to them, because their number will, I think, increase today as well. And continue. I think this will not be the first case. This situation needs to be addressed. It's not normal. These draft decisions on the fact that a Member wants to operate in the Commission in which he feels and in which he will better represent himself should be supported, because... 10 signatures have been collected accordingly, so that... And every one of these things needs to be looked at individually. Now it's just... The fuel is already being rejected once only because he can see that he is an independent... Well, there are many! So that I am calling for support for this draft decision and for the others as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U190	Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision “On the withdrawal of Member Erika Pucenas from the Commission of European Affairs” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Members Ģirgens, Kursīte, Krapāne, Vitenbergs, Pucens, Benhena-Beken and others are asking that the draft decision on the election of Member Ērika Pucens to the Appeals Commission be put on the agenda. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Valainis, Augulis, Gobzems, Stepanenko and Agešins are asking to exclude from the agenda item 14 of the draft law “Amendments to the law on the declaration of cash at the state border” from the agenda of the sitting. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U191	Yes, colleagues! I'll try to justify why. This question, already when the draft law was discussed at the first and second readings of the previous Saeima sittings, got it in a way... No significant effect on This regulation is being improved, but yesterday, when we spoke in the political group... colleagues have received a great deal of questions about this new framework, and I too, as a Member, have come up with really a lot of questions when looking at these new versions. In my view, it would be worth this question once again... return to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, because there are, I think, and there will be many questions in society, many unanswered. That is why I think the Commission should still work. Everything has not yet been answered.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U192	Thank you. Mārtiņš Bondars has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U193	Colleagues! Our opposition is now doing this: the worse the country is, the better the opposition is. I can't understand that. For what? Why are you doing this? The work on clarification does not take place within the Commission. The clarification work takes place at a meeting with the voters. Mr Valaiņš, I can tell you that it is one of the keys to success in the elections. Voters must meet instead of constantly sitting in some commissions. I wish you to learn from your past mistakes in the future and call on all other colleagues to vote against the exclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U194	Colleagues, we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of paragraph 14 of the agenda - Amendments to the law on the declaration of cash at the state border - exclusion from the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation shall not be excluded from the agenda of the sitting. Draft law “Amendments to the Land Books Act”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U195	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has received nine proposals for the draft law “Amendments to the Land Registers Act”, which have been examined and supported. I will report them today at the Saeima sitting. 1. is a proposal from the Legal Commission related to proposal 5. The purpose of this proposal is to level the workload of judges, and it provides that the judge approving the auction act also carries out the strengthening of property rights in the land register. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U196	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U197	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Associated with judicial reform, which will result in judges of land books being included in district (city) courts. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U198	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U199	3. - a editorial proposal by the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U200	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U201	4. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns, also of a editorial nature. The third paragraph specifies that the applicant will be obliged to provide an e-mail address if the official electronic address is not used. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U202	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U203	5. - The legal commission's proposal. Linked to proposal 1. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U204	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U205	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Associated with ongoing judicial reform. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U206	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U207	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U208	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U209	As well as 8. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partially supported and included 9. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U210	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U211	And finally 9. - a proposal by the Legal Commission which sets the time for the entry into force of amendments to the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U212	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U213	Ladies and gentlemen, I call for support for the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U214	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Land Book Law” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Road Transport Act’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U215	Hello, fellow Members, again! Today, the draft law "Amendments to the Road Transport Act" is under discussion at third reading. This draft law, as has been mentioned many times from this troupe, was drafted by the Ministry of Transport. It aims to clarify the legal framework for commercial passenger transport by taxis and passenger cars, as well as the regulation of bus terminals. The draft law provides for a particular strengthening of the supervision of the taxi industry. In total, nine proposals were tabled in the draft law for the third reading, while three were created during the work of the committee in preparation of the draft law for the third reading. So we will look at 12 proposals at the third reading as a whole. 1. is the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telela Linkait. It provides that contesting or appealing does not stop the decision to cancel the registration of the website or mobile application provider and to block the website application, as well as the decision to issue... withdraw the passenger and freight transport certificate. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U216	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U217	2. There is also the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telela Linkait. According to the recommendation of the State Revenue Service, the word ‘in the database’ is supplemented with the word ‘in the register’. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U218	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U219	3. there is a proposal from the commission responsible to harmonise the time limits for the entry into force of the various articles of the draft law under consideration. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U220	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U221	Proposal 4 is a proposal from the committee responsible for the previous proposal, which provides for the harmonisation of the time limits for the entry into force of the various articles of the draft law under consideration. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U222	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U223	Proposal No 5 is the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telela Linkait. The Ministry of Transport has clarified in the draft law under consideration the classification of vehicles in order to be comparable with the classification in the vehicle register for vehicles of category M1. The proposal was partly supported and included in the Commission6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U224	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U225	Proposal 6 is a proposal from the Commission responsible for replacing the word "suitable" with "equipped" on the basis of the recommendation of the Road Safety Directorate, specifying the characteristics of vehicles intended for the transport of passengers with a height of less than 150 cm. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U226	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U227	Proposal No 7 is a proposal by the Minister of Transport, Teleels Linkait, which clarifies Article 35.1(5) (on the recommendation of the State Revenue Service). The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U228	Let us start a debate. Name Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport Janis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U229	Hello, colleagues! The specific proposal of the Minister of Transport, which in essence came from the Ministry of Finance and is mutually agreed, provides: “... payments to passengers for a trip from an object purchased at a fixed point of sale by a single database of tax and other charges registered in the State Revenue Service’s electronic recording device or equipment, when the transaction is registered in a taximeter.” Simply put, the proposal provides that when you buy a voucher, you have to get a check in the cashier's box... and the taxi driver must, after receiving it from the customer, register the taximeter... The draft law “Amendments to the Road Transport Act” provides for various improvements to the tax sector, and one such innovation is the introduction of vouchers. This measure, the introduction of vouchers, is intended to prevent unjustified calculation of the amount payable for services to customers and avoidance of value added tax. It is planned that vouchers will be available at retail outlets, at the most important taxi service points, including at the airport. The proposal rejected by the Commission provides for the keeping of records and procedures for vouchers and would serve as a basis for the issue of the relevant provisions of the Cabinet of Ministers governing arrangements for the circulation of vouchers. In connection with this proposal, the Ministry of Transport has held meetings with representatives of both the taxi industry and the State Revenue Service, and the need for this proposal has been supported. The support has been achieved because it is understood that detailed arrangements on the movement of vouchers will be set aside in the Cabinet Regulations. In addition, I informed you that ensuring strict monitoring of the movement of vouchers will minimise opportunities for fraudulent use. On the other hand, if this proposal were not supported, it would be possible. I ask Members to support the proposal made by the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U230	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission? Then we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - the proposal submitted by Minister Lindhaita! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 52, for - 24, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U231	Yeah, thank you. Proposal No 8 is the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telela Linkait. This provides for a editorial addition to one of the requirements for the Road Transport Directorate to register a web-based or mobile application service provider. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U232	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U233	9. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. It clarifies the terminology used in the proposal for persons with reduced mobility. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U234	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U235	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. It clarifies the delegation given to the Cabinet of Ministers regarding websites and mobile applications. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U236	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U237	11. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelis Linkaitis, which specifies the time of entry into force of several provisions of the law. The proposal has been partly supported and included 12. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U238	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U239	12. is a proposal from the committee responsible. It clarifies the time of entry into force of different norms of the law in accordance with legally correct principles. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U240	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U241	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support this draft law at third, final, reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U242	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Road Transport Law” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against - no, refraining - 3. The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the law on the declaration of cash at the national border’, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U243	Good afternoon! In the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, we have examined proposals for third reading in the draft law “Amendments to the law “On the declaration of cash at the state border””. We have received 14 proposals. 1. is Mr Kirstein's proposal to explain orally the information provided in the cash statement. This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U244	Let us start a debate. The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U245	Ladies and gentlemen! Colleagues! In principle, I will talk about the whole of the bill. I'm not going to repeat everything I said at last sitting, but I think we're doing something... one of the greatest absurd laws. We could start by stating that, when we cross, let us say, the Kurzeme-Zemgale border, we could also take some action. Although more effective, I think it would be, for example, to make it possible for these activities to be carried out on roads where there are, as I say, modern "cultural centres" such as "Spice" and "Alfa", where people from Vidzeme and Kurzeme gather. By the way, it would also have economic added value as it would lead to a diversification of retail forms, making rural shops more popular. People wouldn't go to Riga anymore, but maybe they would go to church on Sundays. Although, as we know from the headlines in the media, it is no longer safe for churches to come after, as we say. If it's more serious, I... Since today a wonderful opportunity was missed to bring the matter back to the commissions and correct all the insanes that have now been incorporated into the bill, I discussed... as an opposition Member, I will also call not only on the opposition, but also on all the other colleagues who agree that this is simply some sort of nonsense... We have now, as it turns out, restored the internal borders of the European Union, which, by the way, is not our own decision, but must be coordinated with the European Commission. I call at least this summer, as you say, to make such a small Kurzeme boiler and allow people who had thought to travel freely not to be afraid to approach borders. I think this is the moment when the opposition and reasonable people could exercise the guaranteed rights of 34 Members and postpone amendments to the law for at least two months... to put it more correctly, to call on the President to do so... At least let us welcome Mr Levit to his term of office, because Mr Levit, for example, also expressed his views very clearly in the debate on various attempts to limit cash, which he considered to be a serious violation of human rights. Let us see the new President and then we will discuss it again. It is certainly a proposal if we are going to adopt this absurdity today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U246	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U247	“Clear money” - it is not and can not be a lmurf. Cash is a legal and official means of payment not only in Latvia, but in the whole territory of the European Union. What the coalition offers today... I think then the coalition should go further. I think then we already need to put in place police patrols, perhaps even... at best, to put Old Town with the army, because there is quite a cash movement in the Old Town. To place security services at the best restaurants, as well as at the designers' shops. My colleague Didzis Schmidt has already said that there should certainly be a patrol at supermarkets too. Soon we will also need, I think, to such the most prosperous areas of people's houses... Patrols should also be placed there, because cash is likely to be there. What you offer is the return in Andropova times. I'll remind you. Some of you have lived in Androopova's time and maybe you remember that the police also... At that time, there were militias... The militias hit people on the streets, checked whether they were going to work or not. What you are offering right now is actually a straight and clear path to the fact that now without a legal basis, actually just on the basis of some mystical suspicion... And I've been talking last week about totalitarianism, punishing or acting of a similar nature on the basis of suspicion. That by doing such actions, you are actually legalizing that you will soon enter and blow each house out, because you feel that maybe something is in that house. ( Milestones.) Another thing to say is that the detention of any person (retention of any person!) and, above all, the search of any person is an essential limitation on the human rights of this person, the "uncompromising rule of law"! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstina and dep. ( See K. Feldman's Intersense.) The "uncompromising justice" representatives should remember that people can only be searched on a serious legal basis and only if a judicial sanction is obtained. Unauthorized search if a public official concludes: “I will now stop this car or other car or I will enter one house or another! ” , is a serious violation of human rights. But I really call you: Well, if so, let's start with Old Town. There's an army around Jacob's street! Every morning we will test Members whether they have such funds in their wallet, because the risk of corruption at the parliament is very high (Interface: “At Riga City Council!” )! And given that we are being guided by draft laws (Internext.) , which gives rise to suspicion that they are being directed towards some possible otkats (for example, about 40 million or any other draft laws), I think that we must start not with ordinary people on the road, but with an army speciality at the Saeima to check that 100 people do not have surplus cash in the purse in the case of 100 people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U248	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained on behalf of the Commission about this proposal? ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U249	The proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U250	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Mr Kirstein's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U251	2. - Mr Kirstein's proposal, which is about the possibility of an oral explanation in the declaration of cash. And the second part of the proposal concerns the amount of money that the Member proposes to set at EUR 100 000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U252	Mr Kirstein, would you have had a three-minute debate? Let us start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U253	Honourable Members! In order to avoid the negative impact that the media are having on the perception of the Saeima following our latest proposals - the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission - I asked the Ministry of Finance for an explanation of how it was in other countries. Therefore, my proposal consists of two parts. In our neighbourhood... As submitted by the Ministry of Finance... In Lithuania and Estonia, as well as in Finland, Sweden, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, the Netherlands, Slovenia, Hungary, Romania and Greece, there is nothing to declare; take even a million, and in Germany (from large countries) there is only on demand. I will read: where a customs official requests that a person declare cash or equivalent means of payment on a sample basis, the value of the cash or equivalent means of payment must be orally named, even if the total does not exceed the EUR 10 000 threshold. That is why I simplified and divided into two parts. Where a customs official has a reasonable suspicion, he shall have the right to question. And the answer is oral. The second part of the proposal is for those who actually carry cash. In the case of carriage, usually in two cases - if the inheritance or the real estate have been sold. Given that in Germany 40 percent do not even have ATM cards and all transactions take place in cash, so that these people also make declarations! Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U254	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U255	This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U256	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Mr Kirstein's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 11, against - 62, refraining from - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U257	3. - Mr Kirštein's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U258	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U259	4. - a proposal of a technical nature by Minister of Finance Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U260	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U261	5. - Commission proposal. Technical and editorial. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U262	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U263	6. - Mr Kirštein's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U264	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U265	7. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The information to be included in the cash declaration form shall be specified. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U266	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U267	8 / 8 - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. The competent authority shall provide for the right to request the person to complete a cash declaration form where there are indications of possible unlawful acts of the person. Supported by changing the numbering of parts accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U268	Members want to debate this proposal. Let us start the debate after a break. Please call me! I request the registration of the presence of Members. Name of notice to Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U269	The regular meeting of the European Affairs Commission will be held at the end of the session. I call on all members of the Commission to go to the Chamber immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U270	Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U271	Not registered: Gundars Dauge, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Jānis Dūklavs, Aivars Geidāns, Inga Goldberga, Inese Ikstena, Ivans Klementjevs, Armands Krauze, Māris Kučinskis, Linda Ozola, Ramona Petraviča, Inguna Rībena and Jānis Vucāns. Maris Kučinskis is.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U272	Interruption until 12.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U273	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law “On the declaration of cash at the state border”, third reading. A debate was launched on 8. - the proposal submitted by Finance Minister Reira. Or debate by 8. - the proposal tabled by the Minister for Finance - do Members want it? You wanted it before the break. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš. Member Linda Liepiņa also does not want to debate proposal 8. Consequently, Members support the proposal 8. ( Interface: “But there was Stepanenko! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U274	She refused. 9. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira, which is editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U275	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U276	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal by the Legal Bureau to change the title of an article. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U277	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U278	11. - a proposal by the Legal Bureau of a editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U279	Members support... Members want to have a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U280	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out the poor way in which the whole package of cash restrictions at the border is being dealt with. This bill... it appears at one point on the agenda, then it is removed, it doesn't return on the agenda, I understand... In the commission back... What did it do this week? And the fact that, as a matter of urgency, both of these issues are directed through the Legal Commission - administrative penalty and criminal penalty (Interface: “No! Not enough... “)... these two draft laws are being driven, so that you can't get with each other... It's like... One norm goes after the other. What's going to happen to us at the end? We will end up having an absolutely poor quality law... a number of laws on which we will then have to account before all the people. Because there will be a lot of false accusations, there will be a lot of victims of the various activities of the institution. And finally, all responsibility will fall on 13. The Saeima. And I (Deep. Bondar: “How much is it - very much?” )... Yes, honourable colleagues, I would simply like to point out that this is a very bad practice, the way in which these draft laws are directed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U281	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U282	On behalf of the Commission, I can say that we had an extraordinary meeting of the Commission last Thursday, where we looked at the proposals... the new proposals that were. And the specific proposal, proposal 11, has been supported by the Commission, as I said earlier.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U283	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 58, no, 3, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U284	12. - a proposal by the Legal Bureau of a editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U285	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U286	13. - the Commission's proposal for transitional provisions. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U287	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U288	And proposal 14 on the entry into force of the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U289	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U290	I call for the third, final, reading draft law to be voted on.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U291	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Declaration of Cash at the State Border” third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 49, for - 6, for - 16, for - 16. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to law on privatisation of state and municipal residential houses”, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Regina Ločmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U292	Hello, colleagues! The Commission of State Administration and Local Government has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Privatisation of State and Local Government Housing Houses”” and prepared it for consideration in the Saeima for the third reading. I would remind you that this draft law was prepared in the performance of the task of the Cabinet of Ministers, which was related to the reform of the Privatisation Agency, while maintaining the overall strategic goal of the Privatisation Agency: to ensure professional management of state capital and problematic assets, as well as disposal and privatisation of assets held by the Privatisation Agency that were not necessary for the performance of the State functions. All major amendments to this law were made at second reading. Only two proposals were received for the third reading, and both were endorsed at the commission meeting. 1. is the proposal of the National Administration and Municipal Commission itself to replace the words “in the Land Registers Division” in the fourth paragraph of Article 53 with the words “in district (city) court”, thus aligning the norm with the law “On Judicial Power”. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U293	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U294	The proposal by the Commission of its own technical nature to replace the words “public limited liability company “Privatisation Agency”” in point 54 of the transitional provisions proposed by the draft law with the words “public limited liability company “POSSESSOR (Privatisation Agency)” as the name of the agency has now been changed. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U295	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U296	Please support the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U297	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Privatisation of State and Local Government Housing Houses” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Secret”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U298	Hello, colleagues! At the meeting of 5 June this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined and prepared for the third reading a draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Secret””. Two proposals were received, both from the committee responsible. The proposal provides that in future, the Cabinet of Ministers shall lay down rules on how to carry out medical examinations in the event of the receipt of a state secret. The Commission has supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U299	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U300	When talking about the state secret and how health checks are to be carried out on persons applying for admission to the state secret, I would call on the parliament to pay attention to whether, in the case of the head of the Office of Constitutional Protection, Jānis Maiziņš (Dep. A. Muižniece: “On the proposal, Aldi!” ), which is very likely to be the case with alcoholic beverages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U301	I closed the debate. ( The Speaker of the Saeima sighs. Thank you. Thank you very much. In the name of the commission, what is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U302	The proposal is that the law enters into force on the day following its publication. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U303	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U304	I call on the Saeima to support this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U305	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Secret” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Mr Daniel Pavluts.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U306	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues and colleagues! We are now looking at amendments to the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance at third reading. This is the same draft law that I have already spoken about in previous readings, noting that it includes a whole series of major amendments that will change the rules of the game primarily for municipal capital companies. However, a number of additional requirements are also introduced for public limited liability companies. And if we support the draft law as a whole today at third reading, then we can say that the reform of the governance of public enterprises promoted and labelled by the OECD or the OECD has finally been fully implemented in several years' time. 30 proposals have been set up and received on 30 June. Let's go through them in sequence. The first three proposals were received from Member Vita Anda Steel. The proposal prevents duplication in the various legal instruments that create legal certainty... Let's say, difficulties in application. And basically this is the so-called blank norm, if it says: unless the law provides otherwise, the norms of another law (in this case, the credit institution law) apply. In the Commission, proposal 1 is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U307	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U308	Proposal No 2 is identical for a similar case. Reference to another law. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U309	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U310	Proposal No 3 - similar nature. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U311	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U312	4. is a proposal from the committee responsible. This extends the range of information the publication of which is monitored by the coordinating body. Supported by the Commission. ( The utterances: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U313	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the proposal submitted by the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 70, for - no, for - 5. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U314	Glad Members are following, yes. Proposal No 5 is a proposal from the committee responsible. Here you are specifying the previous rate with... by clearly stating that the provision also applies to those capital companies which have a decisive influence on the State. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U315	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U316	Proposal No 6 clarifies the same point in another article. Here, too, we are talking about the country's crucial influence on existing capital companies. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U317	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U318	Proposal No 7 addresses the following issue: At the initiative of the coordinating body it was decided (and this is reflected in several proposals) that the entire amount of this information published by the capital companies and also published by the coordinating body PKC - that the entire amount is published once a year together with the annual report data, so until 1 October. In this case, the obligation to publish part of this information within a different time limit, or 1 April, is excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U319	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U320	8 / 8 - a proposal from the committee responsible. Here again, the amount of information that is included in this general information, which is to be published, is agreed. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U321	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U322	9. - a editorial proposal by the Legal Bureau which changes the title of the article in order to make it clear that it is precisely the management of the State's capital shares and not the management of all the shares. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U323	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U324	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U325	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U326	11. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U327	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U328	12. - Mr. Sanda Riekstin's proposal. There was a debate in the committee responsible for this matter, as Mr Riekstinis, by its very nature, proposes to amend the wording submitted by the group of Members for the second reading. In particular, the Members suggested that, in those cases where they wish to become heads of state-owned companies, members of the board of directors of state-owned companies are to become persons who have been active in politics as officials of certain political parties, the term of "removal" should be determined. This is international practice and, at second reading, we voted that this should be done for 12 months. ( The utterances: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Member Riekstins suggests that the number “12” is to be replaced by the number “24” or - for two years. In the Commission, some Members considered that 12 months should be left. The vote decided that it would be 24 months. So, in Sanda Riekstin's commission, the proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U329	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - Member Riekstin's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 40, for - 21, for - 13. Proposal not supported... I am sorry, the proposal has been supported. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U330	13. - in the proposal of the committee responsible, the scope of the information, which is also included in the capital companies of public persons derived, i.e. municipal capital companies, has been discussed. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U331	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U332	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - in the proposal of the committee responsible, the date of publication of the information is again specified, with the deletion of 1 April. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U333	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U334	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Legal Bureau - is a editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U335	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U336	16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It has been supported by the Commission and is also editorial in nature.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U337	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U338	17. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Similar to one of the previous, there is also a editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U339	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U340	18. - a similar proposal by Sanda Riekstins, proposing that the cooling period be extended to 24 months. The Commission had an exchange of views. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U341	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. - Member Riekstin's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 45, for - 15, for - 15, for - 15. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U342	19. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is envisaged to delete the points and to transfer them to another paragraph of the same article. This proposal is linked to the next proposal. So they are interrelated proposals. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U343	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U344	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. In substance, the foregoing paragraphs are moved to another paragraph of the same article. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U345	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U346	Just a moment! 21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Members' Groups - Pavluta, Indricksone, Kursīte, Eglīšs and Leieniņa. Clarifying the fact that no premium is paid to the members of the Board at all. The Commission has partially supported and included 22. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U347	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U348	22. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Addresses the same issue by adjusting the text of the law and making it clear that no bonuses are paid to the members of the board. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U349	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U350	Go on. All future proposals relate to transitional provisions and concern both the entry into force of the law and the entry into force of certain parts thereof. 23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The deadline for setting up the Councils, namely 1 June of the following year, is changed. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U351	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U352	24. - The proposal of the Legal Office - concerns the time limits for entry into force. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U353	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U354	25. - relates to another question. This provides for the deletion of the provision on the continuation of the delegation agreement at second reading. The Bureau considered this to be automatically understandable from a legislative point of view. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U355	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U356	26. - a proposal from the committee responsible which shall amend the date of entry into force accordingly. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U357	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U358	27. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This also applies to the entry into force of parts of the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U359	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U360	28. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which also relates to the entry into force of parts of the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U361	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U362	29. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which also concerns the entry into force of the law. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U363	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U364	And finally 30. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau providing for the entry into force of the entire law on 1 January of the following year. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U365	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U366	Please vote and support this draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U367	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 70, for - no, for - 3. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U368	Thank you. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U369	Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Act of the Financial and Capital Market Commission’, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U370	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law of the Financial and Capital Market Commission’ and prepared it for third reading. I would like to inform you, colleagues, that I now have a letter from the European Central Bank signed by its President, Mario Dragi. In fact, it is an opinion issued at the request of the Latvian Minister of Finance to give an opinion on the draft law. The final sentence is as follows: "The objectives of the FCTC will be extended and its functions clarified in order to strengthen the current powers to monitor money laundering and terrorist financing." This is from the opinion of the European Central Bank. This opinion of the European Central Bank is publicly available to all, so that it can be consulted safely. A total of 22 proposals have been received. 1. is the proposal of Minister of Finance Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U371	Members...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U372	Yes, and this proposal complements Article 9 of the FCTC Act, which defines the areas of responsibility of the FCTC.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U373	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U374	2. and Mr Kirštein's proposal. Partly supported and included 3. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Provision shall be made for the appointment of members of the FCTC Council to be changed.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U375	Members share the Commission's view on proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U376	3. - Member... Proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U377	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U378	4. - Mr Kirštein's proposal. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported. The rules of the selection panel shall be specified in the light of any changes previously made to the procedure for the selection of the members of the Board.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U379	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U380	5. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U381	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U382	6. - Member Maris Kučinski's proposal. Partially supported, included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U383	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U384	7. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U385	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U386	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U387	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U388	9. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The Commission's proposal is supported. The law on the appointment of the Chairperson or the members of the Board shall be supplemented.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U389	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U390	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr Kirštein's proposal. Partially supported, included 11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U391	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U392	11. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U393	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U394	12. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U395	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U396	That's... Yes, it cannot be distinguished so quickly. ( Internouncing call.) Well, it's true. You're right, I'm not perfect! ( Internouncing call.) 13. is the proposal of Mr Kirštein, who...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U397	Minister of Finance, Minister of Finance! 13. - a proposal from the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U398	I have here the 13th proposal from Mr Kirštein. ( Internouncing call.) So... Yeah, thank you. So 13. - a proposal from the Minister of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U399	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U400	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U401	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U402	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U403	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U404	16. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The Commission shall be supported by a corresponding change in the numbering of the following articles.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U405	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U406	17. - Mr Kirštein's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U407	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U408	18. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Partially supported, included 19. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U409	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U410	19. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U411	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U412	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U413	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U414	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Partially supported, included 22. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U415	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U416	Dear colleagues, This is a proposal from the Minister of Finance, and it, as well as the next 22, which is a proposal from the Commission, provides that if Mr Putniņš and his deputy, Mrs Razane, voluntarily leave the job before 1 August this year, they will receive compensation of 80 per cent of the annual salary. Taking into account the remuneration of previous years, this will total around 150,000 euros. Just as it is necessary to provide a meal for children in one school for a whole year. We could take the example of a Canadian school. It could be thought - yes, a fair offer, because for the management of the FCMC, the regulation provides that two years must not work in the sector and in the companies that have been decided upon. It is normal practice to offer compensation, but it is not normal that there is an exception here, because the general order means 50 per cent. If they hurry and voluntarily leave, they will receive 80 percent. I would say that it really is, to put it mildly, an inappropriate offer. Experts say that this is an interference in the work of an independent institution. Experts say that it is not good governance, but I think it is clear to the non-expert that it is simply a buy-back from existing management, because it is dissatisfied with how current management works. Mr. Eglitis also mentioned... quoted also to the public... strategic partners who consider that cooperation with the FCTC is not possible. So how can we perceive this funding of 150 thousand? ( From the UK Group: “Divorce allowance! ” ) How does a prize for a good job or a hint of a bad job? I'd say like a second. Welcome to Mr Putniņš and Mrs Razane, the 150 000th hint of a myth, the very bad work that would call into question our shared principles of good governance and our ability to act in crisis situations. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U417	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U418	Colleagues! In these weeks, we listened to the State Audit Office's vision, including the single remuneration system, at the Public Expenditure and Audit Commission. Of course, it is not normal that there is an exception, and in this case there is another exception. But I myself have voted in favour of such exceptions when we have looked at the so-called control service as a good, excellent leader, who should set a higher salary. And we made an exception to the single remuneration system to attract a better expert. To be the best expert with such a good salary. And in this case, we have employees for whom... they are concerned about their ability to carry out their duties. We offer to pay him 150,000 euros for just leaving work. The question is, do we forgive them for leaving, or do we rather forgive them to keep their mouths? Don't they complain anywhere that they just walk away from this post in good faith? But for that, that's a proper bonus, a bonus, please! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Col: “How much would you offer?” ) I think this is a story about such values. We have officials who are still in the same financial position. We have the President of the Bank of Latvia who is accused of serious crimes. We are not talking about this at all. But the officials for whom... There is really nothing to blame for, except that there are partners who believe that it is impossible to cooperate with them... Well, then for them we're... Well, then it turns out that they are not really honest, they have done their job well. But why should they be paid? I really don't know about it. And I think this bill and this proposal is that... Well, could also invite the President of Latvia to return this law to Saeima... precisely because of this single proposal. Everything else... I think those disputes are over, but on this proposal... If 34 Members of the Saeima asked the President not to declare this law, then I think the ruling coalition would be... some problems arise. But why has such a proposal been integrated at all? I think, Mr Bondara, you could, however, explain from this troupe why you give further bonuses to the people you want to get rid of, in such amounts. 150 thousand! Mr Bondara, is that the right attitude? Throughout the public administration, we are looking for ways to attract better employees, stronger ones, and pay them, the most powerful, really decent pay. On the other hand, in this case, we are going to give a huge prize for bad work. In my opinion, this is not acceptable. Colleagues, I call for this proposal to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U419	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U420	First. Thank you to the coalition for the great idea of getting rid of those who fail to fulfil their responsibilities and also fail to fulfil their promises. So, in principle, the opposition should prepare appropriate draft laws for the next sittings... Well, for example, Karin will get used to millions. In order for Karin to walk away, we would offer him with such a bill, so let's say, two and a half million. Well, maybe then he would leave voluntarily. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “How much do you need?” (Laughter) Ray... he may be a little less modest... Well, maybe a million for him. He is, however, associated with the OIC. Less than a million - that would be indecent. ( Internouncing call.) Viscella, for example. She is unpopular in society, with 25 thousand, for example. And so on... that's the spirit. That is your proposal! So for those who fail to fulfil their obligations, we will offer possible compensation, and the amount of money they could, for example, choose, and you, as a coalition, could vote. Given, for example, that the "uncompromising rule of law" also does not deliver on its promises, but... Well, they're also against, in general against everything that develops business... they could be free of charge. Let's say, the only organization that could offer nothing if. That is your proposal! Secondly. Why do you offer two... Is that so? I have a silent suspicion that, within the Financial and Capital Market Commission, decisions are taken not only by two people, but that there are many more members of their boards. I have a question right away. Well, for example, Gvido Romeiko, which is connected with the New Unity, will you keep him or will you offer him some compensation? Why silence? Why do you not answer that question? Why isn't there a call from the drug? I would like to say that, in a situation where there are people who are accused of any irregularities, they must be brought to justice and prove that they have done so, rather than offering them payment and compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U421	Name to the Member... So Mr Bondara will not debate. I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, do you want to clarify this proposal?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U422	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, There were a very wide-ranging debate in the Commission on this issue, with a number of things in the debate. Firstly, international practice in the democratic countries of the West is that this type of agreement can really be reached. It is just a normal, customary thing in international practice. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Adamson: “Can such an agreement also be reached with teachers?” ) Secondly, these funds will be covered by the Financial and Capital Markets Commission budget. The budget of the Financial and Capital Market Commission is formed not from the state budget but from the contributions of the members. This means that banks and insurance companies will pay for it. ( Interface: And in banks, where does the money come from?) ; dep. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “What does it grow?” ) And finally... ( The box “Give back the money to Raimonds Pauls! ”) ) And finally. The government must also come forward with a vision by December next year of how the various issues of compensation and remuneration of independent bodies will be addressed. So that the government will also work on these issues. Colleagues, I call for support for proposal 21, as has been done in the Commission, where it is partly supported and included 22. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U423	Colleagues, proposal 21 has been partly supported and included 22. - the Commission's proposal. So we can vote either on 21 or on 22. I would remind you again of the procedure. We can support either proposal 21 or proposal 22. ( Insight: How to vote?) ) Members would like to vote on proposal 21. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 21. - the proposal submitted by Finance Minister Reira! ( Insight: ‘ How should I vote? ’) “As it will, it will!” (Laughter) Please... ( The ring of noise.) Colleagues, the debate is on proposal 21. We have debated the 21st proposal, and that, I recall once again, has been partly supported and included 22. - the Commission's proposal. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 21. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Finance! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - not, against - 61, refrain - 15. ( Interface: “Demission! ” ) The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U424	22. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U425	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U426	Colleagues! That was a very good idea, as it was at last, outlawed... The compromise coalition can solve the problems of the shots. Remember, when the Minister of the Interior took office, he said that everyone should go out - the Chief of State Police, Chief of Economics Police, Chief of Criminal Police... there is no concrete thing, but they need to be shocked. Then we appeared an application to the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court for the examination of the Prosecutor General. There is no justification, but the application is. The same applies to both the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, the Chief Justices of KNAB, directors of SAB as well as a number of high officials. You know, I think it's so strange that all of these words - "non-compliance with office" - started to sound in public space at the very time when someone... A number of criminal proceedings have been initiated against a person close to political power (in some criminal proceedings an accusation has already been presented). Then the solution is very simple: offer all government officials who are not satisfied with you a cash compensation. Minimum threshold... Well, in Latvia it was previously accepted... bribes and missing money in the amount of three million (Interface: “Forty have saved!” )... Yeah, 40... saved it today. That's all right! Let's go! Stop fooling! This is not an example and... How are we about someone? We fight some kind of justice. I asked Mr Bondara before, when we discussed the declaration of funds - in what way... on what basis will the State Revenue Service or Customs Representative stop me on the road? I'm not talking about the border. ( Internouncing call.) But there is no reason! Answer: Well, no one will stop. Then what should such a law be for? ( Internouncing call.) Colleagues, I call on you to think about and still work for the state and the people, not for some idiotism.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U427	Name to Member Viktor Valain. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U428	Colleagues! Thank you for the previous vote. Hopefully the next one will be the same. Mr Bondara, you mentioned, on behalf of the Commission, that this is an international practice. And you're absolutely right. International practice has already been incorporated into our legislation. All independent bodies... there this provision is already provided for. The question was: why do you increase it further? Why is this exception... As if the poor workers we are now increasing? Why did you make it... Is that so? Because it's all... the laws had already said everything. So, Mr Bondara, maybe you will answer that question?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U429	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U430	There is also one legal problem here... A little. The problem is that the proposal is by nature... provides for compensation to be offered to those who work poorly. Those who work well - they don't! Well, that's it. Yeah... when it comes to school reform, reducing school numbers and releasing teachers, no compensation is offered to teachers. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Muižniece: “How is it not?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ Only those people who... which are regarded by the ruling coalition as poor workers. And you don't shout at all from that end. If you don't like anything or have too much aggression, calm down your cardboard Juārda, if? (Applause) Depp. S. Riekstins: “There is a loss of talent! You are not there!” ) We all know that you hate money and this does not apply to you. We are talking about people who are interested in the future of Latvia. And if we talk about Latvia's future, it is wrong to offer compensation to a person who is actually supposed to have violated something before that. Such a person shall be held liable. And it must be proved in court. Otherwise, compensation, please all! To the full of all - teachers, doctors, who are. — Dep. A. Muižniece: “There are compensations for teachers!” )... who leave, forced to leave, entrepreneurs forced to close their shops, restaurants because of your actions. Completely for anyone you destroy in business or forced - in one way or another - to leave Latvia (for example, raise the real estate tax and in such a spirit). Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U431	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U432	I would like to bring back such a constructive atmosphere. I have a proposal. We could pay this sum to both candidates clearly (Laughter) somewhere at the border (Laughter) ... on a big road (interfaces. Thank you very much. at the border, and it would be, as the win-win situation says, because to justify its origin and what has been paid for will be difficult. Let's hold it, the money will stay for us, and someone else will sit! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U433	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what can be explained about this proposal?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U434	Colleagues, I can only say that the 22nd Commission proposal has been supported, the motivation has already been given on the 21st proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U435	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 22. - The proposal submitted by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 51, 27, abstaining - not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U436	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U437	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U438	24. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Partially supported, included 25. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U439	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U440	25. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U441	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U442	And 26. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U443	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U444	We have therefore examined all the proposals for amendments to the Finance and Capital Markets Commission law. On behalf of the Commission, a request to vote in favour of this draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U445	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 57, for - 20, for - 1. The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions’, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U446	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions. Five proposals have been received for the third reading of the draft law. 1. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported. This proposal supplements the list of institutions which are able to obtain sensitive information held by credit institutions for the performance of their functions. And so it's the Competition Council.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U447	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U448	2. there is a motion from Member Svekova. There is no support in the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U449	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal tabled by Member Svekova! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 22, for - 47, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U450	3. is a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported. The norm shall be specified, which provides that the trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Law insofar as they relate to the process of self-liquidation of the credit institution.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U451	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U452	And it is supported. Yeah. 4. is a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U453	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U454	5. is the proposal of the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U455	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U456	We have therefore examined all the proposals for the third reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions. Request to support, as in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U457	Please call me! We will vote for the third, final, reading draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 61, for - 1, for - 14. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U458	Good afternoon, colleagues! On 5 June this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption discussed the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism” before the third reading. A total of 41 proposals have been received. And now let's start and watch everybody in turn. 1. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau specifying the wording of persons operating in the trade in art and antiques. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U459	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U460	Proposal No 2 - editorial clarification of the receipt of information from the Penalty Register at a fee. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U461	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U462	3. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Technical specification. This is also about receiving information. The text is supplemented by the fact that the procedure for receiving information is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U463	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U464	4. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The function of a specified independent audit in the internal control system. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U465	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U466	5. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The text was supplemented by the words “Association of Latvian Certified Insolvencies Administrators of the Bankruptcy Procedure, National Cultural Heritage Administration”. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U467	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U468	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technical specification of the requirements for the staff responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U469	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U470	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Clarified wording specifying which sanctions are concerned. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U471	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U472	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Corrected time - that customer research is carried out before the transaction. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U473	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U474	9. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Editative corrections concerning legal entities. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U475	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U476	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Technical clarifications concerning entities of the law and control bodies. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U477	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U478	11. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Technical details of the supporting documents of the actual beneficiaries. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U479	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U480	12. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Technical specification. The title of the article has been changed and clarification of liability has been made. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U481	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U482	13. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Clarified version concerning customer research and supervision, as well as the competence of control bodies. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U483	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U484	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative clarifications regarding the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers in relation to information to be issued to an entity of the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U485	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U486	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Technical specifications, additions to the customer research. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U487	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U488	Proposal No 16 Editative correction: the word ‘apply’ shall be replaced by the words ‘apply’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U489	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U490	17. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Editative clarifications concerning the reporting obligation. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U491	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U492	18. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Editative clarifications concerning the submission of documents. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U493	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U494	19. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative correction - shutdown of redundant words. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U495	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U496	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. An editorial correction - exclusion of the words ‘signs of suspicious transaction’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U497	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U498	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Technical details of the cases in which a freezing order may be issued without delay. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U499	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U500	22. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Technically aligned with other provisions, exclusion of words. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U501	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U502	Proposal 23 - editorial corrections. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U503	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U504	Proposal 24 - Paragraph 43, fourth paragraph, is excluded because it is included in another article of the law. The Commission supports the proposal of Finance Minister Reira.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U505	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U506	25. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Technical details of the amounts of transactions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U507	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U508	26. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Missed name. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U509	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U510	27. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Editative corrections to the status of information obtained from the monitoring and control process. This is about limited availability and responsibility for the disclosure of this information. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U511	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U512	Proposal No 28 - editorial corrections, figures change. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U513	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U514	29. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Technical specifications for information on strategic analysis. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U515	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U516	30. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Technical details of the provision of information to law enforcement authorities. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U517	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U518	31. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Technical specifications in the Consultative Council’s tasks. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U519	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U520	32. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Technical specifications for aligning the rules. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U521	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U522	33. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Technical clarifications, redundant word disabled. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U523	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U524	34. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative corrections, specified irregularities. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U525	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U526	35. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technical specifications for the entry into force of certain provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U527	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U528	36. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Details of the transitional provisions for entry into force from 17 December 2019. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U529	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U530	37. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Clarifying the transitional provisions on entry into force. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U531	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U532	38. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Transitional provisions concerning the entry into force of certain provisions as from 1 January 2020. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U533	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U534	39. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The details of the transitional provisions on the period by which information on the beneficial beneficiary is to be submitted, which shall be before 1 January 2021, as well as on the consequences in the absence thereof. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U535	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U536	Proposal No 40 - editorial clarification. The text was supplemented by the word ‘Parliaments’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U537	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U538	41. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Technical specifications for the entry into force together with corresponding amendments to the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U539	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U540	I call on the Saeima to support this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U541	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U542	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U543	Draft law “Law on Private Pension Funds”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Rihards Kozlovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U544	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law “Law on Private Pension Funds”, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, which has been prepared with the aim of transposing the directive of the European Union. The Cabinet asked for this draft law to be declared urgent. This proposal was rejected by the Commission. Overall, this draft law has been drafted as a new law, since it was found that the transposition of the directive would require more than half of the legislation to be amended. Therefore, a new draft law was also created. As I have already mentioned, this provides for the transposition of a European Union directive aimed at establishing a minimum harmonisation in the European Union in order to protect members of occupational pension funds by providing information, good governance and investment security. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U545	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading draft law on private pension funds! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U546	September 5, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U547	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 5 September this year. Draft law on the first reading of the Investment Protection Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U548	Singapore finally, yes. Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, honourable Members, In its meeting, the Foreign Affairs Commission looked at the draft law on the Investment Protection Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part. We supported it conceptually. A little bit, in some words, about the nature of the bill. The draft law is designed to approve the Investment Protection Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part, in accordance with Articles 7 and 8 of the Law “On International Treaties of the Republic of Latvia”. On 7 July 1998, Latvia signed an investment protection agreement with the Republic of Singapore, which is an old generation agreement. It is, to a certain extent, outdated and does not ensure that Latvia's interests are protected in accordance with modern requirements; moreover, the rules of the Treaty are widely interpreted, therefore investors' rights and state obligations are not sufficiently balanced. The usual practice is that, with the entry into force of the new investment protection agreements, old people will cease to exist and will be replaced by the new agreement. This agreement will enter into force once all the Member States of the European Union have ratified it. But until then investment protection will be governed by an existing bilateral agreement. The Agreement is directly related to the free trade agreements of the European Union. The agreement includes all innovations from the European Union's new approach to investment protection and enforcement mechanisms which are not included in the 12 existing bilateral investment agreements between Singapore and the Member States of the European Union, including Latvia. A very important aspect of the agreement is that it replaces and therefore improves the 12 existing bilateral investment treaties. The agreement provides for fair and equal treatment of investors in the European Union, their investments in Singapore and does not discriminate against Singapore's investments in similar circumstances. At the same time, it protects investors in the European Union and their investments in Singapore against expropriation, except where this is in the public interest, in due course, without discrimination and without immediate, adequate and effective compensation, in line with the fair market value of the expropriated investment. I call on Members to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U549	Please call me! Let us vote on the first reading draft law on the Investment Protection Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U550	The deadline for submitting proposals is 18 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U551	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 18 June this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Normunds Gunna.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U552	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has prepared for second reading the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance”. The draft law is related to the system of codification of administrative irregularities in sectors. A total of five proposals have been received. 1. is a proposal from the Commission. The Commission shall specify the title of the Chapter in accordance with the Law on Administrative Responsibility. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U553	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U554	2. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau which, under the Law on Administrative Liability, will impose a penalty on an official as a natural person, without it being necessary to indicate both words in the text. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U555	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U556	3. There is a proposal from the Commission. This proposal is also of a editorial nature. The terminology of the Administrative Liability Law shall be agreed. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U557	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U558	4. There is also a proposal from the Social and Labour Affairs Commission. It shall complement the transitional provisions with a provision providing for the entry into force of the chapter... on administrative responsibility in the field of social services. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U559	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U560	And 5 is also a proposal from the Social and Labour Affairs Commission. As Proposal No 4, which already includes the entry into force clause, is supported, the proposal provides for the exclusion of the first-reading rule on the entry into force of the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U561	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U562	Colleagues! I call for the vote on the draft law as a whole at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U563	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on social services and social assistance. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U564	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 28 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U565	Who's June?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U566	28.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U567	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 June this year. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Law on Epidemiological Safety’, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Normunds Gunna.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U568	The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Epidemiological Safety” has been examined by the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs. The amendments concern the system for the codification of sector-specific administrative irregularities. Four proposals have been received in total. 1. - the proposal of the Social and Labour Commission, which clarifies the title of the section, shall be reworded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U569	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U570	2. is a proposal from the Social and Labour Affairs Commission. The new version contains the title of Article 37.5. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U571	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U572	3. There is also a proposal from the Social and Labour Affairs Commission. The title of the article is clarified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U573	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U574	4. is the proposal of the Legal Bureau, which provides for clarification of the title of the law in point 11 of the transitional provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U575	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U576	I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U577	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Epidemiological Safety"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U578	21 June
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U579	21 July. So...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U580	June!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U581	June. The deadline for submitting proposals is 21 June this year. Draft law “Amendments to law on the involvement of employees in decision-making in a European commercial company, European cooperative society and cross-border mergers”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Normunds Gunna.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U582	From the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs to the second reading we have brought the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Participation of Workers in Decision-making in a European Commercial Company, European Cooperative Society and Cross-border Merger of Capital Companies””. This draft law has also been developed within the framework of the system of codification of administrative irregularities in sectors. We have received two proposals. 1. is a proposal from the Social and Labour Affairs Commission. It is editorial, the title of the chapter is clarified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U583	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U584	2. There is also a proposal from the Commission, which is also editorial. Article 31 in the new version... Article 31 title, apologies. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U585	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U586	I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U587	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the law on the involvement of employees in decision-making in a European commercial company, European cooperative society and in the case of cross-border mergers of capital companies”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U588	Proposals for a third reading may be submitted until 21 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U589	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 21 June this year. Draft law ‘Law on the processing of personal data intended for the protection of the judiciary’, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jūlija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U590	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has prepared for second reading the draft law “Law on the processing of personal data intended for the protection of the judiciary”. A total of 40 proposals have been received. Most of them are editorial and technical proposals. 1. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau clarifying the term "competent authority". The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U591	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U592	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technically. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U593	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U594	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Proposal of a technical nature which is consistent with the interpretation of the term ‘restriction of the processing of personal data’. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U595	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U596	4. - a editorial proposal by the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns, clarifying the interpretation of the term "beneficiary". I've been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U597	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U598	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This provides for a clarification of the concept of ‘competent authority’, but the article in question at third reading may be further clarified. This is linked to proposal 1. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U599	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U600	6. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns, which clarifies the scope of the law. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U601	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U602	7. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns, which specifies the functions of the prosecutor's office to which the activities of the law will be subject. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U603	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U604	8 / 8 - a proposal of a technical nature of the legal office. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U605	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U606	9. - a proposal of a technical nature of the legal office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U607	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U608	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a technical proposal by the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U609	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U610	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technically. I've been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U611	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U612	12. - a proposal from the Legal Office combining the third and fourth paragraphs. It is also a technical proposal that clarifies the idea contained in the standard. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U613	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U614	13. - a proposal by the Legal Bureau of a editorial nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U615	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U616	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal by the Legal Bureau of a editorial nature. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U617	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U618	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau which is of a technical nature and which moves... transform the first paragraph. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U619	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U620	16. - a proposal clarifying the nature of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U621	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U622	17. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns, which specifies that in the cases specified in external regulatory enactments the processing of data takes place without informing the data subject. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U623	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U624	18. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is also a technical proposal which provides for the replacement of the word ‘communication’ with the word ‘information’. I've been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U625	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U626	19. - a proposal of a technical nature of the legal office. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U627	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U628	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal of a technical nature of the legal office. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U629	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U630	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal specifying the nature of the legal office. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U631	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U632	22. - a proposal of a technical nature by the Minister of Justice Mr. Janis Bordāns, which provides for the consolidation of the fourth and fifth subparagraphs. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U633	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U634	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal of a technical nature of the legal office. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U635	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U636	24. - a proposal of a technical nature of the legal office. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U637	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U638	25. is identical to 21. - a proposal by a technical legal office. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U639	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U640	26. - a proposal of a technical nature of the legal office. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U641	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U642	27. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is also a editorial proposal which provides for the replacement of the words ‘personal’ by ‘data subject’. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U643	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U644	28. - a technical proposal by the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U645	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U646	29. - John Bordan's editorial proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U647	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U648	30. - a technical proposal by the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U649	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U650	31. - a proposal by the Legal Bureau providing for exceptions to the procedure for appointing the data subject. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U651	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U652	32. - The Legal Bureau's proposal, which provides for the status of data protection officer... Data Protection Officer... the appointment of the controller in different institutions. The proposal triggered little discussion within the Commission, as the third reading is likely to be subject to clarification, as it provides for exceptions in accordance with the Directive in order to ensure the independence and impartiality of the procedure. A comparison with other countries will also be envisaged - whether the prosecutor's office in this case could be regarded as an institution that also judges the court in this sense. The Legal Commission has supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U653	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U654	33. - a proposal of a technical nature of the legal office. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U655	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U656	34. - a proposal of a technical nature of the legal office. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U657	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U658	35. - a proposal of a technical nature of the legal office. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U659	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U660	36. - a proposal of a technical nature of the legal office. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U661	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U662	37. - a proposal of a technical nature of the legal office specifying the judicial function as laid down in the Directive. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U663	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U664	38. The proposal was presented in the form of a proposal from the Legal Bureau, but it was in the form of a recital and therefore became a proposal from the Commission. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U665	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U666	39. - a proposal by the Minister of Justice, Mr. Janis Bordāns, which provides for appropriate liability for breaches of the processing of personal data. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U667	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U668	And finally 40. - a technical proposal by the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U669	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U670	On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on Members to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U671	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law on the processing of personal data intended for the protection of the judiciary! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U672	We will wait until 18 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U673	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 18 June this year. Examination of own-initiative proposals The draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 822 Latvian citizens “Demolition of victory monument”. Member Aldis Adamovičs on behalf of the commission of mandates, ethics and applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U674	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, On 8 March this year, the Saeima received a collective application of 10 822 Latvian citizens “Demolition of victory monument”. On 2 April this year, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima launched an initial evaluation of the application and heard a representative of the initiative applicants who explained the arguments put forward in the application for the dismantling of the monument, informed about examples of other countries, as well as identified possible options for dismantling. The author of the initiative explained the nature of the collective application that the monument of Victory is related to the occupation of Soviet power and its repression against the people of Latvia, as well as the praise of the Soviet army. On 24 April, the panel heard experts from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the National Cultural Heritage Board, the Council of Monuments of Riga City Council, the Riga municipal agency “The Riga Monument Agency”, the association “The Association of Politically Repressed People’s Republic of Latvia” and the Saeima’s Legal Office. Different views have been expressed in the Commission. Direct support for the dismantling of the victory monument, for changing the name of the monument, for moving it. Having evaluated all the information received, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications decided by a majority of votes on 24 April this year to submit a collective application of 10 822 Latvian citizens to the Foreign Affairs Commission and the Commission for Education, Culture and Science for further evaluation. Please support the prepared draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U675	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 822 Latvian citizens “Demolition of victory monument””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 45, it's 30, it's not. Decision adopted. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 76, for - no, for - 1. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Ms. Iveta Benhen-Beeken to the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 76, for - no, for - 1. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Ērika Pucens from the Commission of European Affairs. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U676	Given that Parliament was watching today... Well, actually one question was not put on the agenda... on Didžas Schmidt of the faction KPV LV wish to change the commission... And Eric Pucken's wish to change the commission... then, in the case of Didžis Schmidt, did not put this issue on the agenda; in the case of the other, I am calling on the Member Pūcēna to climb into the tributary (Minimum. (Laughter) ... I call on him to climb the platform and explain the reasons why this Member has the advantage of changing the commission, which is the motives why Member Pucen wants to change the commission, and to explain to the public why Member Pucen has more rights than Member Schmit, who also made the same request. I call on the Member to climb the table and to explain these motives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U677	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U678	I would like to draw attention to the fact that Member Didzis Schmidt is no longer in the KPV LV faction. I also call on the previous speaker to find the motivation and to tell him why it is necessary to eat the boys in the Saeima so that we can be clear about all this, because, until this matter is resolved, the work cannot go ahead. (Laughter) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U679	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U680	I call on you not to react to alcoholic nightmares. ( Milestones.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U681	Name to Member Viktor Valain. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U682	As I said before about a matter of a similar nature... Whatever, but Mr. Neighbours, you can already stop and not talk about these issues today. In the previous Saeima, your wishes were respected, even though you were an independent Member, your participation in those commissions where you wanted to, were always accepted, there was no dispute over whether or not the Neighbourhood should be allowed. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “On the proposal!” ) In this case, it is no longer a question of Mr Pucence. The issue is that of others who are independent Members. Remember, Mr. Neighbours. ... Mr. Neighbours, remember yourself. Remember yourself when you were an independent Member! Who knows, maybe you will also become an independent Member in this Saeima, and then we will see how you can speak. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Who knows!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U683	Is that enough for four minutes? The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U684	Mr. Neighbours, your presence in the political group is also quite formal, isn't it? You're as if you're not there, aren't you? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Muižniece: “What about the question?” ) We are talking about being in the political group and perhaps your presence, which is only formal, is linked to the fact that you still want to run the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, because it costs EUR 800. Mr. Neighbours, this is so important to you. Money, right?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U685	Dear colleagues, Members Paviluts, Pucens, Strike, Dzintars and Kozlovskis are asking to continue the sitting of the Saeima without interruption until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U686	Dear colleagues, What is allowed for some is not allowed for everyone. And probably, as we see, what is allowed to the coalition Members is not allowed to the members of the opposition. What is permitted for coalition Members, such as Member Kaimiņš, is probably not allowed for members of the opposition. Because, how can it be explained that the Member has delayed... did not attend the Saeima sitting on 9 May this year and wrote as an excuse that he had participated in some pre-election event with the media. But there is no evidence that Mr. Neighbours appeared in one of the media on or after 9 May. This means that opposition Members are allowed to lie, but... (Laughter) Thank you very much. Impressions. Depp. S. Riekstins: “You can’t hide the truth!” ) I am sorry. (Laughter) Sounds like noise. Thank you very much. Yes! His village is, in fact, a member of the opposition. He has been a member of the opposition since 12. The Saeima. And he has humiliated all members of the coalition 12. In the family. And I don't know what your self-esteem is if you tolerate the fact that Mr. Neighbouring is for a while, just for a while... is only a useful Member. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “What about the withdrawal of Pucens from the Commission of European Affairs?” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U687	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Erikas Pucenas from the Commission of European Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 80, it's two, it's not. Decision adopted. And the draft decision on the election of the Member Erikas Pucenas to the Commission of Petitions. Please call me! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “I am sorry!” ) To be put to the vote on the draft decision on the election of the Member Ērika Pucenas to the Panel on Petitions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting has been examined. I must inform you about the answers to Members' questions scheduled today. Member of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development of Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Čakša, Jalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis “On the solution to the problem in reducing the “tyre mountains” in Latvia”. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. Therefore, replies to Members' questions will not be given today. There has been received a question from Members from Liepiņa, Stepanenko, Gobzem, Sprūde and Smits about possible problems in the public communication of the State Revenue Service. Name for motivation Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U688	It's very short. We have submitted to Minister of Finance Janis Reiras a number of questions related to the communication within the public space of the Head of State Revenue Service, Mrs. Jaunzemes. And these questions cover the truthfulness of the information provided... both for certain economic operators, as well as for the planned flights to the roads related to cash control planned by the State Revenue Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U689	The question shall be referred to the Minister for Finance. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name for the announcement to the Secretary of the Saeima, Andrejs Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U690	High honourable Members! Fractional leaders in the Red Hall together with the Saeima Presidium for five minutes... to the sitting....
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U691	Name of the Saeima Secretary Maria Golubeva. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U692	Not registered: Boriss Cilevičs, Gundars Dauge, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Jānis Dūklavs, Aivars Geidāns, Inga Goldberga, Inese Ikstena, Ivans Klementjevs, Armands Krauze, Ainars Latkovskis, Linda Ozola, Ramona Petraviča, Inguna Rībena, Lubova Švecova and Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-13-PT13-543-U693	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
