ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-545-U1	Good morning, everyone here! Dear Members of the Saeima! Mr. Prime Minister! Ministers! Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! I declare open the special session of the Saeima. Article 40 of the Satversme provides that when the President of Latvia takes office, the Saeima shall make a solemn promise at the sitting. I invite the newly elected President of Latvia to make a solemn promise in Egil Levite's hall!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-545-U2	I swear that all my work will be dedicated to the benefit of the Latvian people. I will do everything I can to promote the welfare of the country of Latvia and its citizens. I will keep sacred and respect the Constitution of Latvia and the laws of the state. I will act righteously toward all, and I will perform my duties according to my best conscience.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-545-U3	Mr. Levite, you have to take the oath again, because it is “the best consciousness”.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-545-U4	Okay. (Laughter) I swear that all my work will be dedicated to the benefit of the Latvian people. I will do everything I can to promote the welfare of the country of Latvia and its citizens. I will keep sacred and respect the Constitution of Latvia and the laws of the state. All of us will be treated justly, and I will be able to carry out my duties with the best possible consciousness. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-545-U5	Thank you. I invite you to sign the solemn promise. Thank you. The solemn promise of the President will be deposited in the State Archives. Highly honored Mr. Levite, please take the President's seat in the Saeima's sitting room! I invite everyone to stand up for the national anthem of Latvia. It is a national anthem. Mr President, I call on you to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-545-U6	Honourable representatives of the people! ‘ The nations themselves create states, and the nations base themselves on the real rights of the peoples” – said Jānis Čakste in 1921. However, the strength of these rights depends on our ability to take care of the common good of society. In order to agree on the common good it is necessary to hear the voices of all interest groups and the passionate debate, to find the best solution in constructive disputes. However, interests may be contradictory and mutually exclusive. That is why it is our responsibility to balance them with the highest representatives of state power. There are many generations of common benefits, and we are only part of the chain of these generations. Our country has been inherited from previous generations who have fought and built it. It is a value, a value in itself. But there is also a future dimension for the common good. Our task is to hand our country over to future generations better than we have received. Your country needs to be constantly improved, renewed, modernised to be sustainable. This is our duty in the face of history. The common good as a focus of policy, responsibility for future generations, sustainability as a measure of policy has been strengthened in the introduction of the Satversme. It is a modern, sustainable country-specific way of thinking. For the time being, this is reflected in the constitutions of only a few countries. And in this respect, too, we can be proud of our Constitution, which is Europe's oldest but at the same time ambitious and responsible framework law for our country. Honourable Members! There are three directions on which I want to think and persuasive over the years of my Presidency on behalf of the common good. I will be grateful for your support and cooperation. These are: solidarity, membership and a modern, sustainable state. For solidarity. We all know that Latvia is one of the most unequal countries in the European Union. This is not a sudden accident, but it is a disease that has been infused for many years. Switzerland’s new constitution in 2000 contains words that seem to me to be very difficult: “The strength of the people is measured by the way its weaker members are held.” In our Constitution, the same idea is expressed in other words – as an idea of responsibility and solidarity. A smart solidarity policy is not just about redistribution of income. Smart policies create equal opportunities with work for earning income. And solidarity includes areas that cannot be measured as a balance of income and expenditure. I call on all of us together to develop a long-term solidarity policy. For membership. Colleagues! The quality of life of a person undoubtedly includes belonging, involvement in your society, in your environment. Independence, the role of national identity in the age of globalisation is growing. This is the opposite of the alienation of globalisation. Although this is unusual, I also add to my identity a human respect for nature, respectful attitude and responsibility for what is a characteristic of culture for us Latvians. Our membership of the Latvian nation, whose language, culture and historical memory we recognize ourselves, is a prerequisite for the existence of Latvia. The future of Latvia requires the involvement and participation of all people living here. The Latvian identity is open and every citizen of Latvia is invited to participate. In this context, two relatively new policies – demographic and Diaspora policies – also need to be aware and actively developed in the future. Latvian language, culture and understanding of history and the world do not belong only to Latvians. Anyone who identifies himself with a minority is welcome to join the country, while preserving their minority culture, language and traditions. It is a contribution to the richness and diversity of Latvian culture. Latvian as the state language is the language of democratic participation of all Latvian people. Latvian culture – I mean it in the broadest sense – is the code of our society, the basis of our feelings and communication. The understanding of Latvian history and the world is rooted in our experience. This also leads to conclusions today. Among other things, I would like to stress that we still have to make a serious assessment of recent history, especially of the occupation period, from democratic, political and moral positions. I believe that Latvianism needs to add more, deeper, stronger content than it is customary to think about in everyday life. Our roots are based on language and culture, but the future dimension of modern Latvianism is becoming increasingly important. It includes both an identity based on our values and our future-oriented thoughts, projects, ideals. Dear people! It also has a broader dimension. We are an integral part of the Western world and Europe, not a bridge between the West and the East. I strongly reject this metaphor. The Latvian army, which lived 100 days ago, shares shared responsibility for peace and security in Europe and beyond with our partners. Our responsible participation in the NATO common security system has yielded results, significantly increasing the level of security in Latvia and the entire region. Honourable Members! Latvia must become a modern, sustainable Nordic country in the next Decade, which will start in six months' time. A country whose world would even belong to world leaders in some areas, which could serve as a model for other countries. There are these options. We just need to understand how to implement them. My vision of Latvia as a modern, sustainable country is a real vision! – first of all, it means that the existing shortcomings that are already known must be resolved decisively, and the existing shortcomings must be mitigated. We have to take the broom in our hands and put a house out of the manure that has accumulated in the 30 years that are pulling with us and that is separating us today from a highly developed, legal democracy. Fraud in procurement, party dependence on donors, corruption, tax evasion, where fraudsters receive part of the common good, but do not participate in its enhancement, shadow lobby and so on – such a long-known misunderstandings have become furious and create bitterness towards the state among honest citizens. And in principle, it is also long before we know how such problems can be dealt with by legal means. There is no compromise in the rule of law. Of course, it is unlikely that these problems will be eliminated completely. But to significantly reduce their disturbing impact on our society – it is certainly possible. Here we need only as much as a political will. I call on all these political wills to create and implement it in life so that, after a few years, these issues are no longer at the top of our society's agenda. That, of course, is not enough. For the common good to be sustainable, smart reforms are needed in the name of the future. The government has launched a number of far-reaching reforms: regional reforms, school reforms, health reforms, including judicial reforms, etc. They are being heated, and it is normal and correct in democracy. But there are a number of areas where policy formulation and possible reforms are still only at an awareness stage. I would mention quality-oriented education and science policies, party funding, information space policy, quality assurance of media, especially public media, etc. Our understanding of the fundamentals of the economy must also be adapted to today's situation. The economy is today a final product. Final product for several successive stages: education, science, innovation and only then economics. Modern economic policies must link these steps in a single chain. Our role as citizens, as honourable Members, as politicians and as Presidents, is to participate in these reform discussions so that together we can achieve a better result. We Latvians can not only effectively improve the country of Latvia, so our quality of life, but in principle we are able and ready to contribute to the development of Europe and the world. This potential has so far been poorly exploited. Although we have good practices, for the time being, we quite palely describe ourselves as co-imaginers in the common European and Western intellectual space. Latvian contribution to our wider membership space – Europe, West and the world – must become more visible. That is why a modern country and a course of sustainability, marked by me, also include active involvement on European and major global issues. That is why it is also our responsibility for the European Union to once again find its own way, which it has lost in recent years. We have now secured the greatest freedom for an individual of Western democracy in the history of all mankind. Every year, however, the question of whether a person will determine the power of a person over a person – a person – technology or a person. Freedom is characterised by the quality of civil society, while freedom in technology society is not mandatory. We must therefore make sure that technological developments do not once again undermine this human autonomy that has been achieved so far. Europe is beginning to be aware of the severity of these challenges, but there are no solutions yet. But why couldn't we – Latvians? Honourable Members! Today, in 101st year of Latvia's existence, I am aware of the fact that I have taken over the stafe from all my predecessors, all of whom have built and shaped the character and meaning of this post in the most diverse circumstances of our difficult history. The traditions of this history give me strength and inspiration to give my contribution to their development. Today I honour the founder of the institution of the President of Latvia – our first President, Janis Čaksti, who has always strengthened democratic values. I highly appreciate Gustav Zemgale, his modesty and humility in serving Latvia in the highest state positions. I remember that Albert wheat came to the office of President of Latvia with the experience of life gained in the work of his judge. Faith in the future of Latvia, huge capacity for work and ability to energize others to work for Latvia – this is what we can learn from Latvia's first and then multiple Prime Minister Kārlis Ulmanis. Executors of the post of the President of Latvia in the context of the occupation of Latvia – Speaker of the Saeima Pauls Kalniņš and Member of the President Bishop Jāzeps Rancāns – remained faithful to Latvia until the end of his life, inspired not to lose faith in the rebirth of Latvia. Together with the diplomatic service, in particular the ambassadors Kārlis Zariņš, Alfred Bīlmanis, Arnolds Spekki and Anatols Dinbergs, they embodied the continuity of Latvia's statehood and preserved Latvia's state capacity until the restoration of independence. I am grateful to Guntis Ulmanis for the restoration of the President's institution in the spirit of the Constitution and the tradition of Jānis Čakste. He is an obligationman who fulfilled his commission of honor in the blood of the family. I am inspired by the belief and strength of Vaira Vike-Freiberga in international representation and foreign policy. During her time Latvian thoughts sounded loud and convincingly in the world as never before and Latvia fully returned to Europe and the international arena. I truly respect Valdis Zatlers' creative activeness, self-eligibility and continuous growth as President of the State. His determination and peace gave us the necessary stability during the difficult years of the crisis. It is important to me that Andra Bērziņa is open and regular dialogue with the people of Latvia in all parts of Latvia, not only in Riga. I will try to visit Latvian cities and regions to follow his example. I very much appreciate the work done by Raimonds Vējonis in strengthening the internal and external security of the country. He will always be an example to me in the duties of the Chief of Armed Forces, which I will try to continue. Honourable Members! Colleagues! Friends! People of the Nations! Dear people of Latvia! We are as big as our will. Solidarity, belonging to Latvia and Europe, the opportunity to live in a modern country is the basis of a sustainable state need. A perfect country does not exist, because progress would then stop. But life without ideal would be individual pity and politically pointless. Let's work together for the Latvian state! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-545-U7	On behalf of the Saeima, I thank President Egil Levit. Late fruitful work for the people of Latvia and the state of Latvia. Late strength and strength in high position. May there be good cooperation with the Saeima! May the coming years be a success for all of us, and let them bring growth and prosperity to Latvia! On behalf of the Saeima, I thank Mr Vējonis for the work he has done in his post as President of Latvia. Thank you. (Applause) Therefore, I declare the formal sitting of the extraordinary session of the Saeima closed. I invite you to the Red Hall, where the ceremony of the highest national awards will soon begin.
