ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Mr. Prime Minister! Ministers! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot move on to the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima on 14 November until the agenda of the extraordinary sitting is examined. We shall therefore continue to examine the agenda for the extraordinary sitting. Members Latkovskis, Lībiņa-Egnere, Dzintars, Strīķe, Dombrava, Feldmans and others are asking to determine all current breaks every 90 minutes – 15 minutes, while the break is set at 12.15 from 12.15 to 13.15 hours. Do Members have objections? ( The box “No! ”) ) There is no objection by Members. So on the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Unemployment Insurance”. Debate on proposal 3. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U2	Good morning, colleagues! ( Interface: “Hello, hello! ”) ) The thieves and criminals also refuse to commit a crime if there are many eyewitnesses that follow. Last night, last night, Latvian society followed very closely so that thieves and robbers could not steal the Latvian people. Today, if we are talking about the particular proposal... This proposal, too, is cynical, because the Legal Bureau has said that it is in fact the opposite of the Constitution, but the coalition does not care. They're just dripping on! It does not matter to the coalition that they are reducing the resources of the unemployed, because they are in the Nordic countries. Less socially protected in the Nordic countries. What I want to say this morning... and I have taken into account what the coalition was doing yesterday, namely that Mr Kariņš is not able to climb the table on the substance of any proposal. He is able to talk about donkeys, about sheep, about other animals, but he is not able to justify any budget line. It is clear that he has not read this budget. It is clear that the coalition is boring today and yesterday was boring, and that day must be cut short. That is why I have purchased and I would like to present to Mr Kariņš today the book to be painted so that he can at least do what he can if he is unable to explain budget lines to the public and to the people. And if he also needs advice in this respect, then Sandy Riekstins will be the best counselor to paint that book. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U3	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U4	Colleagues, good morning! Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Let us continue to talk about the proposals. This proposal, as I said, is linked to the previous proposal, which you rejected yesterday. However, I would like to draw the attention of Minister Reira here - this morning you explained on television that you have spoken to the social partners. Unfortunately, its negotiations are already one-way... One-way monologue. And the National Trilateral Cooperation Council - I would like to remind you, colleagues - has not supported this budget. And this reduction in social security still... I hope you've thought about it overnight. There is still this risk of conspiracy that has not yet been addressed. And so none of this thing has explained. But what has been explained... has been, well, misleading this morning on television that it has been talked to the social partners. Well, I'm sorry, these are just told ideas that have already been approved by the government. It's not talking. That is the information.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U5	The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U6	Dear colleagues, Dear Mr. Reira. And the honourable coalition! I will not even talk so much about the proposal, but about the procedure. Colleagues! Several judgements of the Constitutional Court state that if a proposal is adopted or rejected, there must be justification, Mr Bondara. I have so far heard no statement of reasons for decisions taken in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission on one elementary matter... Why has one or another proposal been accepted, why has one or the other proposal been rejected? Perhaps members of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission are aware of this. But I would also like to hear this justification in person. What's the matter? Why Is Supported? Does it affect the budget or budget, affect the economy or does it affect the economy? Please come and explain. Give this justification for any proposal that you accept or reject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U7	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U8	Dear colleagues, The lie from the Cabinet of Ministers continues. We, as my colleague said today... Mr Reira was not ashamed to say publicly today that, here, no social partner has turned to him. Because no social partner was just told what you were going to do. No social partner was told. ( The interns of Minister for Finance, J. Reira.) You will be able to come and really justify your public statements. No social partner like, for example, a family union... it has addressed the Saeima Commission because no one has asked them: “Do you agree that your benefits are reduced?” Do they now need to know what is happening in your mind? Do they need to know and follow what happened in the government on 13 September? They have nothing else to do?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U9	Name of Member Regina... The name is the Minister of Finance Janis Reirs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U10	Good morning, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Unfortunately, we have to do an interpretation work. I understand that it is acceptable if, however, there is no great experience... But Mrs Stepanenko must have more experience. The social partners of the government are the Employers' Association and the Free Trade Union (Dep. D. Smith: “The Confederation!” ) Union. These are the social partners! The social partners have set up nine sectoral councils, where work is taking place, thus affecting the social sector, the medical sector, the financial sector and so on. Nine Sectoral Sub-Committees. In this budgetary process, we met with the social partners twice in September. So we usually meet once, but since there were questions at the first meeting, these meetings were held twice. So the question... Mrs Stepanenko disappeared, huh? Oh, she's sitting there. On the question of journalists whether there were consultations with the social partners... There were only consultations, but practically the whole procedure followed... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: “Where is this stated in the annotation? There is no one!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U11	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U12	Good morning, colleagues! Thank you very much to the Minister for Finance for his explanation. Indeed, you have a great deal of experience in the social field, and thank you for being here today. I would like to clarify, however, that the government's decision on the reduction of the time limit for the payment of unemployment benefits and the reduction of the amount of unemployment benefits... the social partners had not yet taken place. ( Minister for Finance, J. Reirs: “The question was about the social partners! ” ) Here we are talking about a specific proposal for a specific draft law. First. I would remind you that yesterday I pointed out precisely that the position of the Employers' Confederation of Latvia on this matter, if you carefully read both the interviews of Mrs Angelsone and the study that was then carried out by Re:Baltica... First of all, she admitted that she was not a specialist in this field. Secondly, Re:Baltica pointed out that she, to put it mildly, deceived the public by expressing her opinion on a matter where she is not a specialist, as she herself acknowledged. That's what we're talking about with the social partners... Not to mention consent. It hasn't happened. Secondly. It is this draft law that has an enormous impact on social policy in the country as a whole. There are impacts and there will be impacts (not yet predictable) on the Latvian economy as a whole. Because, as we justified yesterday, firstly, the explanatory memorandum to the bill contains misleading information on the OECD position, and secondly, as my colleague Švecova pointed out, as well as the European Commission's position on Latvia's policy on tackling unemployment... That is why, once again, we ask you to withdraw both this draft law and the draft budget as a whole, because it seriously violates the principle of legitimate expectations and is generally illegal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U13	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U14	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima. Good morning, fellow Members. Mr. Prime Minister! Minister! There's a saying that one head is smart, two is smarter. And I think the National Trilateral Cooperation Council and the whole process... the co-legislator and the government also consult partners when drawing up their legislative initiatives. If this was done qualitatively in this case, I think that the principle of proportionality could also be negotiated with them and a solution could be found so that then there is no risk of conspiracy and there is no risk of loss in the country. If we listen to our colleagues in the Free Trade Union of Latvia, then their views on the negotiation or communication process are very critical. Two meetings have taken place. The materials were sent to the first meeting last night at 11 a.m., so the social partners refused to discuss this issue. And at the second meeting, the social partners made it clear that they did not support such a budget because it was too damaging for society. Too many decisions that deprive society. Prime Minister, Mr Reira, said in an interview this morning that the decisions of the Saeima alone do not generate money. I cannot agree. There are decisions that can generate money, for example, by combating the shadow economy. But there are certainly many decisions that take away money. And if you vote in favour of this draft law and do not support this particular proposal, you will take away 12,33 million people who are unemployed. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U15	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U16	Dear Latvian society! Let me show you, even one highly developed world democracy, or even one Nordic country, in which the Head of State is not able to step up once in order to defend the budget that he has developed, so as to make clear to the public in essence! Why is the funding reduced for the unemployed, why is it not given to doctors, teachers, why is it taken away from the disabled, why are the promises given to teachers not being fulfilled? No argument! Only for sheep, asses... Once a time, the Prime Minister is able to climb the platform, in the rest of the time he goes and consult with Riekstin on how to paint the coloring book. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U17	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U18	Have you stopped striking your wife? And we have to answer this question with "yes" or "no" - these are our options. ( Internouncing call.) Because that is what our honourable colleagues from the opposition ask us. I could tell you from academic books that should be done to the opposition. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Mary, you said yourself that you haven’t read the budget! You said it yourself!” ) And I'm so sorry... I am very sorry that our colleagues are creating in society expectations that are not possible at all. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko's intermediate call.) And I am very sorry that our colleagues are unable to accept the results of the elections and democratic processes. I am very sorry that the same cooperation partners (interoperable call) who now see that either in the social fields the money has not been reduced, it has not been taken away from anyone, but, on the contrary, it has either been put on it or left it the same... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “12 million, Martin, 12 million!” ) Yes, it (Interface: “On this proposal!” )... It's... It's happening here in this room, right now. ( Milestones.) And what the social partners have previously accepted... 28 million MEPs in quotas that are not at the moment... Millions of monkeys and snakes! I'm sorry, it's not... ( The transcripts are: “Bondar has been successfully hidden.” Medicines cause noise.) That's... it has been changed! And now this new policy is different. And if you don't believe that, look at that budget. You won't find such a position, I'm sorry. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Medicines cause noise.) So... Are you not able to strike your wife? We will not answer with "yes" or "no". Good luck at work! Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzems: “Mārtiņš, Mārtiņš, first read the budget!” Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U19	The name of Member Janis Wuzan for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U20	Good morning, very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Ministers! Colleagues! Members! Mr. Bondar! The question that has been asked to the government and which has also been asked to you, as Head of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, is not what you have just mentioned from the parliamentary tribunal. The question is quite different. The question is whether these sums of money that have been diverted from social contributions so that citizens can receive, in accordance with the principles of economic modelling, an adequate benefit for unemployment insurance... whether these amounts are now transferred in an adequate way to the amendments to the law, both by shortening the time limit for the payment of the unemployment benefit and the amount of the unemployment benefit. The question is purely economic. And we... what we are asking to answer - whether these calculations have been made and whether this balancing has been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U21	The name of Member John Tutin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U22	Good morning, dear colleagues! I listened very carefully to the debate yesterday, I looked at you and, you know, I was absolutely surprised. What happened to you? Especially with the Members of the new party. Another year ago, even half a year ago, you saw positive sparks of change in your eyes. Your speeches were positive; you criticised the previous Saeima for having become voting mechanisms. What is it now? There is now complete indifference in your eyes. Talks are just a reservation after. The promises remain only at the level of intent. A year later, two, three... And you yourself have also become voting mechanisms. There is no point of view. And if that is the case, then let's go! Keep pressing the buttons! Good luck!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U23	The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U24	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Mr. Prime Minister! Ministers! Members! The reduction in unemployment benefits is, yes, I agree, an unpopular decision. However, this is a carefully thought-out and balanced step that I am convinced of. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “One argument is named!” The availability of labour is one of the most pressing problems for companies, as indicated by Latvian employers in the last few years. It is becoming a serious problem and a brake on economic development. The question of unemployment benefit is therefore one of the incentive tools for faster and more effective labour market participation. ( Milestones.) But benefits are, of course, not the only instrument to return workers to the labour market. It also has a whole range of activities in the State Employment Agency... It also said that none of the partners had been consulted... Then the Employers' Confederation of Latvia has supported these changes, and the Cooperation Council of Agricultural Organisations has also welcomed this step. Because labour shortages can be tackled in two ways: either through a labour reserve or through the involvement of foreign workers. Economic growth in recent years has improved the labour market situation and has also contributed to employment growth, job creation, unemployment reduction and also to labour demand. ( Interface: Unemployment is falling because of the economic situation!) ) If we look at the professions, then vacancies, such as truck drivers, are registered in 2220, while the unemployed seeking employment in the same profession are 474. And it can't even be said here that they are some sort of regionality problem or different, because these people are working in Europe. It is quite no matter if he lives in Kurzeme or Latgale. ( Internouncing call.) And of all the unemployed who are now registered - 5.6 percent (it should also be noted that the unemployed must register for those who receive the guaranteed minimum income)... This figure, the number of active jobseekers, is much smaller. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U25	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. So the name is Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U26	Thank you, Madam President of the Saeima. Members! Colleagues! Ministers! Then let us start the debate and talk about the substance! What is the situation with regard to the labour force in the country? Both I and I am convinced that all Members who are coming to the people have been hearing for a long time: "We lack the labour force. We have a lack of jobs!” We actually have only two choices as to where we could take new staff in the short term. Even if the birth rate increases, we should probably wait about 18 or 19 years until they enter the labour market. So we can either make better use of... allow those people who live in Latvia... to return them to the labour market, or we can debate them - it would also be a difficult debate! - on how and to what extent we will promote immigration and which countries and how many thousands of people we will take. In our country, the length of the cost of unemployment benefit is quite polite - nine months. The proposal is to reduce it by one month. This would not mean that people who lose their jobs... Well, it would only enter into force for those who could potentially lose their jobs from January, not on the existing... That... from that time... As a country, we are actually increasingly generous, but we will try to address these people so that they do not sit on unemployment benefits at home, but to go and find work because there is a shortage of jobs in Latvia. And that's why even a little (interim.) ... This is rather a symbolic reduction. This is not already a real reduction; it is a symbolic reduction. But we, as a government, do not want to smash and fall. We must gradually transform our human profiles... from the fact that we are, as the beneficiaries say, to the fact that we find something. And this is a symbolic step: to gradually reduce the length of unemployment benefits, so that people return to the labour market, so that I do not have to stand on this platform by calling numbers, to what extent we should increase immigration and from which countries... with all existing integration problems or future integration problems... and so on. So instead of promoting immigration, we want to encourage people who are now unemployed to return to the labour market, because work, thank God, is waiting for them today in Latvia. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U27	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U28	Dear colleagues, I was asked here yesterday why the opposition is so active, so it behaves. I think about it here and... You know, a few years ago, society really had the impression that there were such things on one side... pragmatic politicians, and on the other side are bursting Artuss Neimins. But now something has changed, colleagues. We are talking here today about a proposal to reduce unemployment benefit - on the ground that it will motivate people to return to the labour market more quickly, because on average... As Mrs Petraviča says, on average, the unemployed person is able to find a job within four months. Now, my colleagues, it's right on our side and you have Artus Neighbour on your side. And we know that. And you also feel it, and you know it. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U29	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U30	Good morning, colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! I would urge you to be careful with this proposal, because after this sitting is finally over and the budget is adopted (made in violation of the law!) , your working time in politics will soon come to an end. (Laughter) Thank you very much. And then you may remember this point. But if I salt more seriously, then... Of course, the employer would prefer not to pay at all... and state - benefits, and people would quickly turn from work to work. I understand that idea, and I have nothing against getting a person back to work. But I think that there is no need to put the ends of the hope and talk about it together with immigration and the workforce, because those who do not want to work will not work. Whether it's nine or eight months. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldmans: “They must pay benefits!” ) No, and this will not be a story of compensation. Those who want to work will find work faster than eight months or nine. I will vote in favour, just stop putting such expectations there that this will bring something to the Latvian labour market. Nothing!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U31	The name of the Member, Andrejs Clementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U32	Good morning! Let's talk about numbers! If you think that the unemployed person can survive with unemployment benefits so green, green and live and don't think about what will be at dinner... I'll give you the figures for the summer. Average unemployment benefit in Latvia - 306 EUR. I don’t think that money can lead a quiet life without looking for a job. In the summer, the average unemployment benefit was EUR 306. ( Subtitle: “Where do these data come from? ” ) You... There are data. Maybe you don't use it and don't know, then check it out! I have no problem showing you sources in the public space. But understand if you question what I'm saying, then you also need to prove why you're in doubt, and then public apology that you have questioned the correct data. I'll show you, I'll send you if you don't learn to use public sources of information. Okay. In Latgale - 13 percent. 13 percent were unemployed in Latgale today and summer. I don't think these people are making special abuse... to live with EUR 306 per month. I will say that you are not talking not only about reducing the unemployment benefit to eight months, but you have reduced it to 25 per cent in the third month. It also hits a person very significantly if he is looking for a job for an average of four months. That means you took a man... from 306 euros to 230 euros in the third month. He's in an active job search, and you--hop! - he's still taken away from his tiny allowance. I will tell you all the more: today we cannot really... for the long-term unemployed, who may also be professional in that area, but 31 percent regularly receive this benefit. This means that 31 thousand people need this benefit. And for consultations. The trade union has always been a partner, and the trade union has always tried to help both the government and the parliament find common language so that it hit the unemployed and people who are employers... to find a compromise. Today, in the trade union they tell you: they will turn to the Constitutional Court because they also noticed that they have been violated... Constitutional Court.... Specific variants... This means that its consultations were not good. And consultations were not successful, if the trade union is talking about the application of the Constitutional Court today, before we adopted this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U33	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U34	Mr. Prime Minister! Thank you for the debate. But some of theses. You're talking only about months, from nine to eight. What the bill says... You haven't read... it also provides for an ad valorem reduction. These unemployed will receive less money each month. (Interface by Prime Minister Kariņš) Without changing contributions, you create a risk of Constitutionality that a person has insured himself without receiving the same service as before. If you were to pass that saved money on to another form of insurance, there would be no problem. The other thing. If that seems funny to you, then I don't think so. If the Minister says that regardless of whether a person works in Riga or Latgale, he works in Europe! Then think, Minister. If the average salary in Latgale is just EUR 700 gross and you will pay only 45 per cent of the benefit in the last months of unemployment, what will they feel in Europe? (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U35	Name to Member Uldis Augums.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U36	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Mr. Prime Minister! Ministers! Colleagues! I mentioned the circumstances yesterday. You don't have to think that all the unemployed are evil people. There are different situations in life where a businessman, due to various circumstances, has to stop his business but suffers workers. Not all households, not all people are able to change their lives within two months, especially if there is a job in another region. In fact, we have taken loans to a household that may have taken on a good faith that there will be a long-term job... We get through the family, through the family’s opportunities for finding a job and further development. I haven't seen a socio-economic assessment anywhere here at the bottom. That's what I said yesterday. Minister! Not the unemployed have... The beneficiaries of the GMI must register as unemployed, but... the unemployed who no longer receive... who are long-term unemployed... they also have the possibility to receive from the municipality a minimum guaranteed income from the GMI. If we speak, we speak precisely. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U37	Name to Member Janis Krishan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U38	Dear President of the Saeima. Mr. Prime Minister, Dear colleagues, I will repeat it very briefly. Firstly, I said this yesterday that it is such a bad signal about social guarantees. And secondly, I will repeat once again that this law is ultimately wrong and outdated from all sides. The Prime Minister said that now it will encourage them to work like this. We have very active centres where there is a shortage of staff, but we also have districts where there is no work. The only thing we achieve is that those rural areas are mixing families, one of them is going to Riga or another centre. Well, it's hardly a big benefit to the state. However, I suggest that we change the law radically rather than put on that little stick that will not be of any particular benefit to us as a state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U39	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U40	I'll remind you of the numbers if you have problems with cognitive abilities and memory. Again I repeat: in Latvia at the end of September, this year, 53 thousand unemployed. Number of current vacancies - 31 thousand. Make an elementary mathematical action! 20 000 jobs are lacking, not jobs. Go on. In Latgale for 16 thousand unemployed 154 current vacancies. To 16 thousand unemployed! Similar situation in Kurzeme, Zemgale, Vidzeme, where the number of unemployed is four to five times higher than the number of vacancies. 81 percent of vacancies are in Riga, 36 percent of vacancies are in construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U41	I closed the debate. ( Internouncing call.) The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U42	3. - the proposal from Member Svekov. The Commission was not supported. ( Subtotal: “Why? ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U43	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the proposal tabled by Member Svekova! Please vote mode! Please get the result! (Interjection.) No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U44	4. - The proposal of Lipshan, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U45	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U46	In its opinion on the budget exercise for 2020-2022, the Board of Fiscal Discipline points out that there is a lack of proper analysis of economic cycles in the government and a lack of an adequate policy action plan. The initiative to review unemployment benefits is welcome, but it is too late. Other external problems of the economic cycle have not been properly addressed. Appropriate measures need to be prepared with a view to a possible future economic downturn. Focusing primarily on other projects and... which could be prepared... start time... in time... The government is now taking a decision accordingly... about those moments... reduce unemployment benefits without taking into account the economic downturn and possible stagnation. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U47	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U48	Colleagues! Instead of acknowledging and correcting such an obvious error, you are now trying to defend it. And you make new and new mistakes on that mistake. What do you think this could lead to? I would remind you that for us this government, the Minister for Welfare, whom it is now time to defend Prime Minister Kariņš, tells us, in essence: if an unemployed person finds a job within four months on average, then the unemployment benefit can be reduced... Now, Prime Minister, you tell those LNT journalists who have just lost their jobs. Because the average unemployed person can find a job within four months, then they can also find a job! Who's next, Prime Minister? You can imagine you're sick, let's say. On average, a person can recover within four to five days. And then imagine you're in a hospital now... When you cannot recover from illness within a week, you are told: “As the average patient can recover within five days, you are now denied state-paid medical treatment.” We, Prime Minister, are coming to the Nordic level, right? What is the situation with unemployment benefit in the Nordic countries? In Sweden - 200 days. The duration of unemployment benefit - 200 days. Even in Estonia... Our neighbor... up to 360 days. Year! In Finland - up to 400 days. More than a year. Nordic countries. So, colleagues, I think this is quite a rhetorical question: are we approaching the Nordic level with this, or - on the contrary - we are leaving this? ( Minister for Finance, J. Reirs: “We are coming! ” ) We are coming. Please tell me, Mr Reira, I would now like to ask you a question using the opportunity. You said today on television that the Saeima had admitted an error regarding the medical law. Can you please climb the platform and explain to us all where you've got that information that the Saeima has admitted an error? Because I don't remember a vote here that the Saeima would have admitted any mistake. Why, Mr. Reira, did you spread false news? ( Minister for Finance, J. Reirs: “Please read the newspapers! ” ) Come and tell us about the newspapers you read. ( Minister for Finance, J. Reirs: “Do not talk to the hall! ” ) Mr. Reira, come and tell me.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U49	First name to Health Minister Ilze Viņķelis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U50	Good morning, colleagues! Maybe we can spend this day differently than yesterday, with just as passionate rhetoric. A. Gobzem: “You will resign?” ), with the same extremely emotional involvement, but with a little more facts. And, unfortunately, I have to comment on what my dear colleague Dombrovskis said... The society is again misled, calling LNT journalists as an example in the case of unemployment insurance. The social vulnerability of LNT journalists is due to the fact that they are, in most cases, taxpayers of micro-enterprises, which actually means that this enterprise (Interview.) ... This regime optimises normal working relationships. And Revitalization of Memory (Dep. Mr Gobzems: Speak to the proposal. )... In order to prevent this, in 2015 or 2016, a law was in fact already amended to increase the social protection threshold for micro-entities. ( The box “Speak on the Proposal! ”) ) Economic Minister (at the time) Dana Reizniece-Ozola considered that this regime should be maintained and here we have consequences. More than that. I would remind you that the very same approach that a person is responsible for his own risks was followed by my colleague Anda Čakša and the previous government, which adopted a health insurance law in which, as a miracle, again the micro-enterprises' tax payers (Dep. A. Gobzem: “Wait! They are, after all, your colleagues in the coalition!” ) fell through and became people with a total and complete responsibility on their own shoulders. Colleagues, then we do it! I'm glad to hear that you're ready to correct these... these holes, these obvious shortcomings in protecting people's social security. Let's do it! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U51	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U52	Colleagues! It would be good to really talk about the facts. And if you think that if you repeat false claims several times, then they will become the truth, you are wrong. I would like to point out to Mr Reira that he is wrong to say that the social partners are at peace with this draft law. The Free Trade Union of Latvia, if it could be considered a social partner, considers... So Egils Baldzens, its Chairman, said to the agency LETA that the intention of the Ministry of Welfare to change the amount and duration of unemployment benefit is contrary to the interests of employees and devaluations the principle of social contributions, because it creates a situation that for some employees - to completely equal social contributions! - the amount of the allowance is reduced without any transitional period. Legal nihilism has unfortunately also reached the welfare sector, said Baldzein. As one of the main problems with the amendment of the unemployment benefit scheme, he referred to the absence of a transitional period, which means that a person who applies for unemployment benefit on 31 December will receive a radically different unemployment benefit compared with someone who applied for on 1 January. The Union has called for a transitional period in order to avoid such an innormality. And if you're talking about something... you did not mention the specific dates on which this consultation with the social partners took place. Perhaps you mentioned... I heard... September. Second date... You may be able to clarify. But if you read again the annotation of this draft law, then we see that the annotation clearly and lightly states that after the fatal decision of 13 September, the Cabinet of Ministers had commissioned... September 17th... September 17th... So less than a month before... the budget came to us on 14 October... The Ministry of Welfare had to prepare these amendments, on which we are currently arguing. I would like you to point out in which particular moment, between 17 September and 14 October, you agreed these amendments with the social partners, who, in your opinion, did not make any comments. Mr Reira, I hope you have heard my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U53	The name is the Minister of Finance Janis Reirs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U54	Madam President, Mrs Stepanenko! Applying Our Interpretation and Falsifying Words (Dep. Mr Stepanenko: “I read the LETA message!” ) in the mouth of other people, they do not become justice. I have never said from this troupe that the social partners are at peace with (Dep. Mr Stepanenko: “LETA message!” )... So the social partners are... You can listen to this entry. I said that there have been consultations with the social partners. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: “Public information shows that you are lying.” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U55	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U56	Thank you, Mr Prime Minister, for your explanations. Mrs. Viņķele, too. It is a pleasure that ministers are involved in this debate. However, I would like to draw attention, colleagues, to the fact that you are still... Still hold to one argument that I fully agree with. I fully agree that its system could be better (Minister for Finance, Mr Reirs: "Then support this proposal!" ) and the direction in which you go is the right one. The question I've been asking all the time - and I think this will be one of the seventh time I climbed the tunnel and hope to get an answer - is why you don't change your social contributions. You will reduce these deadlines, but do not reduce social contributions. And that's what my colleague, Mr. Wuzan, also said... that this is the dialogue that should not be conducted with employers... Well, somebody... an employer? The employer needs a faster staff. But this should be done with the social partners, directly with the workers. And the absence of this dialogue... For now, at least it looks... and so no one has discussed the matter directly from this troupe. And that is what we call on you to do. Because obviously not in the commission or somewhere else in the Saeima, don't... from annotation... We can only read one thing from these... available issues. As members of the opposition, we have read the opinion of the Bureau of Legal Affairs that this bill is against the Constitution and that there is a very high risk... Article 109. It is precisely because this proportionality has not been assessed. We're the second day... I personally ask someone for the sixth time to come and tell you where this proportionality is measured directly from the worker and not from the employer. From the employer... I understand you, yes, a less time-limit, will get involved more quickly. Let us hope that these people will not leave Latvia. But the question is, people make some payments. They hope to get some guarantees in return. With this approach... if we do not explain these issues to the public, we adopt a law of urgency on such an important, socially sensitive subject... We can risk losing faith in the system at all, in the state. That is what we are calling for. If there was no explanation in the commission, then we desperately invite you to come here and tell. Let us debate the substance! Well, let's talk these questions! So far we're talking like an empty wall, because everyone's coming to tell... I already said in my first speech that there are only economic considerations here. Nothing else! The letter you sent to us, members of the opposition... the economic considerations I have been reading today. We have already read this letter all day yesterday, which is once again read by the Minister today, arguing that there is no answer that we are waiting for here. Minister, I see that you are very determined to come and tell. Hopefully you will tell us, we will continue to debate it. And really all the respect for you as Minister for Finance. Minister for Welfare, please take an example. You should answer these questions. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U57	The name of the Minister of Finance Janis Reirs for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U58	Madam President, Colleagues! Maybe it wasn't really explained... but I can say that this proposal to reduce the benefit for the unemployed is a compromise proposal, because there was initially a proposal to reduce to six months and a few categories (Dep. V. Dombrovskis: “Who offered it?” )... So it was offered by the Employers' Confederation of Latvia. And some categories even don't even grant a benefit at all. The Ministry of Welfare, on the other hand, decided to find a compromise on this situation. For money, funds, perceptibility risk. Social tax of 30 or social contribution of 35,09 per cent. A few very thorough things have been noted. For example, 1 percent of healthcare is transferred annually. And 24 per cent is directed towards the pension system. Thus, 20 per cent of the individual accounts, of which 14 per cent are 1 pension-level accounts, which are virtually accounted for by a person but paid to existing pensioners, 6 per cent go to the total 2 pension-level which a person can choose, whose fund holders serve the pension, and 4 per cent are in the total budget to pay to those who do not have this pension savings. So, who worked in modes without contracts or modes where there are... Under the minimum pension provision. The other percentages are divided by the Cabinet of Ministers, and in this case, when you look at the situation, what is the execution, what are the requests, in this case there is a benefit... unemployment benefits are thus minus 12 million, but last year and this year we are planning to increase sickness benefits by 30 million, for example. It is your logic that we should then increase the tax on sickness benefits, which is going to rise, but we will not follow this path. At the same time, the Saeima did not increase social contributions by any percentage when accepting mothers' salaries paid from the social budget. Consequently, other balancing methods are applied here to ensure that the overall social budget is maintained and can provide all the six sectors that are needed. So, Mr. Valaiņš, please! This is your explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U59	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U60	Colleagues! In this draft law, we are basically talking about those people who have full social security and who regularly make social contributions. In this case, when the service or insurance they receive is reduced, do they not violate their rights? The truth is for Minister Viņķele that there is still a group of other Latvians working in other regimes, such as micro-enterprises tax regime, who receive royalties. And there are a number of other work to be done to ensure that their social security is indeed provided. But I have to tell you... Mrs Viņķele pointed out to Mr Dombrovskis that he seemed to be half-truth. But the same thing is done by the Minister. She mentioned that the micro-enterprises tax regime is bad and that Minister Dana Reizniece-Ozola has not allowed it to be arranged. I would remind you that Minister Dana Reizniece-Ozola was the only one who tried to defend the need to maintain minimum social contributions for micro-enterprises. And 12. The Saeima, whose Member was Mrs. Viņķele, was the one that abolished it. (Applause) For royalties. One large part of the journalists who will now be unemployed - I hope that there will be few of them - is not the taxpayer of micro-enterprises, but the recipients of royalties. And it was during the tax reform that we introduced the principle that you cannot pay social contributions if you have a contract of employment... in parallel... where you get zero - pay. During the tax reform, we also introduced a minimum social contribution for the self-employed so that at least pensions would accumulate. We introduced one percent... health insurance... social contributions, which Mrs Viņķele has withdrawn with a light hand and which are not being continued. Mrs. Viņķele, you speak half the truth, and unfortunately you only jump half the way into your work. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U61	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U62	So the government has accepted... take her stand on the side of Mrs Petraviča. Instead of being as far away as possible, you support it all. I quote Mrs Petraviča that "an unemployment benefit is one of the ways in which fiscal policy reduces the volatility of the economic cycle". Then I have a question, first of all, to Mr Reira, about the period during which you were Minister for Welfare. Economic growth was then almost five per cent. Why didn't you reduce your unemployment benefit at that time? You should have done exactly as Mrs Petravič says. Then I also have a question for this whole coalition and for the Prime Minister. For us, both the Board of Fiscal Discipline and your main economist, the coalition... Mr Feldman says that we are in recession. But if we are in recession and recession, then you need to do exactly the opposite: you need to increase the unemployment benefit. Colleagues, where is your consistency?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U63	The speaking time is over. Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U64	minus 12 million for the unemployed, plus 11 million for the Ministry of Finance. It is logical why unemployment benefits should be reduced: for the Ministry of Finance to have salaries! As for the unemployed, the problem is not only that the proposals in fact are contrary to the Constitution, but the problem is also that the government does not offer these people the opportunity to return to the labour market, nor does it offer educational opportunities. For example, for Development/About! , remember everyone said before the elections that all Latvians will learn to speak English. In the course of a year or two years, everybody here will speak English... They have not even taught their minister Viņķelis to speak English! (The intersor of I. Viņķelis, Minister of Health.) Minister Viņķele talks about the media, which could now have a problem with unemployment benefits, she talks about the oligarchs, but forget that her former member of the party, now the coalition representative, Asheraden, sold the Day to the Rowandes. Then Vincele was silent. She always remains silent when it comes to protecting people, when it comes to protecting the unemployed so that they can return to the labour market. There is no government talking about this issue. Minister Reir walks into the troupe and says that the Saeima has apologized for being wrong. The Saeima has never made such a decision, Mr. Reira. This was a one-sided statement by Mrs Mūrniece, which was not agreed with the Saeima and for which a large proportion of the Saeima Members have not given their consent. It was a violation of Mrs Mūrniece's mandate, and it is also a cynical act to mislead the public, by the way. It cannot be relied on. The Saeima has passed laws that are in force, and these laws must be enforced. As far as the unemployed are concerned, I think it is important to say that we should not act in such a way that we are in danger that there will be another trial before the Constitutional Court. I understand that you are not afraid of it, because when that trial is likely this Saeima will be fired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U65	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U66	Yes, Mr. Reira, something is wrong with that truth, however. 46 Members of the Saeima, as we counted yesterday, can and may also confirm today that they have lied to medical practitioners. Only 46! Less than half. All the others are either opposition or newcomers, so you are wrong, and Mrs Mūrniece was not allowed to say publicly on behalf of us all that we regret what we have done. And, Mr. Reira, you're today... provided information in the morning interview. THE LETTER'S message. Please read it! 14 November: "Reirs: no criticism of next year's budget has been heard on the part of the social partners." That's what you said to "Morning Panorama". I don't know what changed this hour or a few hours in your mind if you say one in the morning, but now you say something completely different here from the Saeima Tribute. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: “Time!” ) Please be consistent!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U67	It's over.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U68	Yeah, time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U69	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U70	I would very much like to agree here with Mrs Viņķele that the LNT case does not open up this story for eight, nine or any other months in the amendments that we accept. The case of LNT opens up something much, much, much, much more serious. In fact, a whole television channel has been de facto in the shadow economy for decades. With foreign capital, this has been very many years ago. I understand that legally correct... but to the fact that it may have been legally correct, I would nevertheless like to say that someone is probably responsible... and who led the country for the last 10 years. In fact, we already know that LNT is not the only one. All the other private media groups are acting... I don't know if all but an absolute majority are acting in the same way. The companies that make programmes, TV3, set up by journalists themselves, are also in the same situation, for example. And this goes beyond this proposal. This is a very serious question because someone... What stories, what objective journalism about the shadow economy, about social responsibility, about envelope salaries, were we able to expect from journalists who themselves are in the most direct shadow economy for decades? It's not a year or two. It's decades -- at least two, close to three. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U71	Name to Member Uldis Augums.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U72	Dear colleagues, We said yesterday that we were climbing into the barn and then calling the facts. Mr Reira, I just contacted the Employers' Confederation of Latvia. I don't know where you come from. The Employers' Confederation of Latvia has never offered to reduce unemployment benefit for six months in negotiations with the Ministry of Welfare. (Applause) The Latvian Employers' Confederation with long teeth has agreed to these eight months... It is not beyond its good will that we are clearly aware of what social security systems mean and of what people's faith in the state and system means. So, colleagues, I call, however: if there are facts, then we stick to the real, true facts! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U73	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U74	Thank you to Mr Reira for his explanation. However... You mentioned that sickness benefits are increasing. Of course, there is also an increase in the number of people who come from the shadow economy in the normal economy. This raises the question, which should also be on the agenda today, of how we control these sickness benefits. The question about it, too... But it's personalized money, and it's 12 million, which falls out... And the question is, how do they return to these people? It remains unanswered. And the question to Mrs. Viņķele. You talked so passionately, but I would have to throw a stone into your garden as well. You with great strength, enthusiasm... even half of the political campaign, in my opinion, was that the elections needed to remove the two health baskets, but you did so by half. And that's why today, colleagues, doctors... This is one of the greatest reasons why medical promises cannot be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U75	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U76	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I have an idea of why the government suddenly proposes to reduce the time spent paying unemployment benefits. Now there is a very acute question in our country about benefits for 500 employees of the insolvent PNB Bank. They will have to pay benefits. Go on. Insolvent recently declared “Dzintars” - 400 employees. All their employees shall be paid their wages officially by their employers. This means that the country will have to pay millions of euros in benefits. Why pay if we can now reduce the unemployed... the deadline?Oh, no, no, It seems to me that this is a completely opportunistic move from the government. Now one more question. It was said today that only next year will there be a new order and that now those people can apply for nine months... No, not at all! From now on, from the moment we adopt this law! - People who... will state the employment relationship with the employer on its own initiative and will not be able to receive a nine-month allowance, but only eight months because they... is this two-month period, when they will not yet become the unemployed officially. That's why I think our government is doing a little trick. It is not worthy of the Nordic Government! Please do not support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U77	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U78	Mrs. Viņķele and Mr. Schmit started an interesting subject, such as the employment of people in Latvia and speaking about journalists in concrete terms. Well, why look in the private sector? No one is a secret, either, at least in the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, several times this year, the fact that public television and public radio workers are also employed on the basis of royalties. ( Interface: ‘ That’s it! ’) ) And no taxes are paid. But... Where are we... Why do we talk about some kind of private sector if public television and radio take place exactly the same way? When it comes to unemployment benefit, which we are now discussing here, it is also not a secret that the major users of unemployment benefits, just like the owners of sick leave, are directly employed in the public sector.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U79	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U80	In any country of the world, the inflow of labour does not result in a reduction in social security for the unemployed. The influx of labour, Mr Kariņš, is the result of an increase in the countless minimum wage, an increase in wages, a reduction in electricity prices for the economy to recover. And from a public and market-friendly financial sector, which not all locks accounts and throws them out, but lets it work here. Then the market recovers, and then people have where to work and get money. But if you think that when we cut off the benefits for the unemployed, we're going to get here now, it won't be! It doesn't happen anywhere in the world! You can try to cut it completely, and you'll see that it doesn't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U81	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U82	Mr Reira, you would like us to be pleased that the government does not raise taxes. Thank you for that. But I think both we and the public would be more happy if the government were to carry out the whole public spending audit. In order to allow the Government to rebut the opinions of the State Audit Office regarding the fact that, according to the State Audit Office, 30 per cent of the expenditure of the ministries is not related to the priorities set in the budget. This question remains unanswered. Why is that? And should it not be possible to look for the money that could be used for priorities? But at the moment, this budgetary framework looks like this, and it is precisely the key to the 2020 budget. So take the children out of lunch to add teachers, take the unemployed to the pensioners, take the municipalities away to give medical treatment, and try to bribe the new doctors residents to take away the promised nurses. Please vote again on the proposal, change the bill and withdraw this illegal budget.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U83	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U84	Colleagues! Two words have been said several times in the debate on this draft law, and also specifically on this proposal... two concepts: ‘legal certainty’ and ‘proportionality’. And specifically, this proposal is that those people who have obtained the status of unemployed before the end of this year will remain subject to the current arrangements for nine months and the corresponding percentage costs, but from 1 January... Those who will get the status of unemployed after 1 January will have this new scheme, with an eight-month period and much lower percentage costs. And the specific cases that colleagues have talked about today, both in the case of a joint stock company "Dzintars" and other companies, are really going to hit, speaking in the jargon, under these amendments of the law, because if the company is now declared insolvent, it means that these days the employees of the company are being announced to cease their employment. In a month's time, the employment relationship will be terminated. That'll be the middle of December. And then they will have the opportunity to become unemployed, but this does not happen in one day or two days. There's a procedure again. And this procedure is likely to continue in the new year. And that means that those people who have already received a job sentence today will still have a period of nine months. For those whose job statement will be in mid-December or, for example, in the second Decade of December, there is practically no longer a chance for a nine-month allowance. At least I look like that. And so I see a really disproportionate proposal... disproportionateness in this proposal. I accept that there should have been some transitional period, much different from what has been said with this proposal, because it is not, by its very nature, a transitional period, it is a one-time sink. And I regard it as an error. The principle of legitimate expectations is also at stake. It already called for the risks mentioned here about compliance with the Satversme. And I really ask you to listen. Because if a case about this law comes to the Constitutional Court about these amendments of the law, then all these things talked about here today, and especially the answers expressed by ministers, will be evaluated. And it's very important what these answers will have been and whether they will be with someone... any economic justification. That is why I ask the ministers to come back and explain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U85	Thank you. The speaking time is over. The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U86	It was not an hour, and I understand the meaning of the budget discussion. I mean, you can find out something new. I really apologise for my ignorance; I really didn't know and I can't imagine that there are no full social contributions to the public media, to the public media, to the public media, to journalists. ( Internouncing call.) That's really new to me! And then what we're doing today is I don't want to say it's stupid, but... Well, it's some kind of butaphoria. It's a butaphoria! Because what difference is eight or nine months if no full social contribution is paid on public television and radio?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It's a butaphoria, or... Well, another cardboard we're building today, we're moving.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U87	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U88	Hello, colleagues! Mr. Karins, you have been asked to speak with the facts. So I'll talk to the facts. What you just said was a very important thing. You said (I quote now what has already been written in LETA): “I am sure everyone hears for a long time that there is a lack of work hands. We have only two options for recruiting new staff in the short term." That is, you said that we need either to return to the labour market or to have a debate on how to promote immigration. So this is what you say shows your capacity and your understanding of how you can address national challenges. (Applause) For years... The lack of labour force, the fact that there will be problems in the labour market, I have already warned, I think, behind the previous Saeima, to show these trends by pointing to you, your Unity (you were then in government). I indicated the challenges facing the country and also the right solution. You mean... This is the solution that you are offering to get back into the labour market: let's just cut off the unemployment benefit for them! Hop! It's an open question. The right solution that you have been talking about long ago, if you want to tackle this problem, that is, how to raise economic productivity: to get people back to work, they must have a decent job offer that cannot happen if the economy does not have the right productivity. In turn, productivity gains require investment in innovation, science, higher education. That's it! That's what you're not doing! At the expense of it, you turn everything around. (Applause) And then you come here and say there's no money in the budget: "We can't do anything! We are socially responsible.” You are totally irresponsible! You're even so irresponsible that you don't even understand how bad you are, what kind of... what you do with the country of Latvia! It's just a curse! Your regime - yours, Yours, Yours, Yours, Yours, Yours, Yours, Yours, Yours, Yours, Yours, Yours, Yours, Yours. - caused damage not caused by Hitler or Stalin! ( Insight: “Go now! ” ) You must go home! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U89	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U90	4. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare, Lipshan, which complements the transitional provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U91	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 71, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U92	I invite you to support the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Unemployment Insurance”.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U93	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Unemployment Insurance” at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 55, it's against - 32, it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to the Notarial Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U94	Colleagues, in the bill “Amendment to the Notary Law” (No. No proposals were received. Please support the second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U95	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Notary Law” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 67, against - 17, refrains - not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U96	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund” intends to decouple the amount paid by the Maintenance Guarantee Fund from the minimum wage as of 1 January 2020. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has received six proposals for the second reading of the draft law, has examined them and is also being led for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima. Proposal No 1 - Proposal by Members Stepanenko, Sprūde, Liepāja, Gobzem and Schmidt on the exclusion of Articles 1 to 8 of the draft law. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U97	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U98	Dear colleagues, This is also one of several of the coalition's "fear" works, with which they try to protect themselves from the negative effect of raising a minimum wage on the country's responsibilities. So this is a false message: “We will raise the minimum wage.” But we will not cover any obligations arising from raising minimum wages. This draft law was also dealt with in the commissions respectively, and I understand that the Legal Office also called for the draft law to be removed from the budget package because it does not affect the budget. But obviously you are so afraid that, after the adoption of this criminal budget, you will no longer be able to make such decisions next year, so you want to quickly, quickly and really put everything together in this package, so that in 2021 you do not have to put any accompanying draft laws and quickly chart them. I do not know if you will create this next budget for 2021. That is, of course, a big question. But its fear of raising a minimum wage is felt in several accompanying drafts. And here too, call you to uncouple the maintenance minimum... minimum amount of maintenance... which is attached... including foster family benefits... We knew it yesterday, we heard it. You want to decouple it from the minimum monthly salary, thereby reducing the cost of guaranteed maintenance for families with a single parent and unable to expect these maintenance from the other half. You are leaving this family, the most vulnerable, not only the disabled and not only the foster families, as we heard yesterday, but also the single mothers or single fathers... someone who has a situation. And in this case, too, this is another bad decision that you want to get through today. In particular, you have to take into account the fact that you have reduced the time of the debate for all the speakers on the basis of absolutely unlegitimate paper... From yesterday... (Applause) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U99	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U100	Colleagues! It is possible that reports on a particular draft law should also report on what decision was then taken by the co-rapporteurs. The Co-Chair responsible for this draft law is the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, and in the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs this draft law was rejected in the budget package. Just as the draft law we talked about yesterday - on the protection of the rights of the child. Mr. Neighbouring said that the opinion of the Bureau of Legal Affairs has somehow been divided into two parts. That Legal Office... one part because it supports further promotion, the other is not really... I do not understand this argument. But I hope that the members of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs who voted against this draft law in the budget package in the Commission will also vote today in the same way as they voted in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U101	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U102	Highly honourable members of the coalition! I understand very well your situation, let's say so. You're sitting there, living your life. You are told that we should vote in favour of this budget. Because there, on that side, are all those anti-state forces and oligarchs, and so on... And you're alone here, so to say, on your island... I know that each of you... I think you do not even understand 99 per cent of what you are voting on. You are told that several expenses should be removed from the minimum wage. You don't even know what that is. But I'll explain to you, colleagues. You're... I am sure that as you were, your mother and dad taught the golden moral law, that the same rules that you apply to yourself should apply to others, right? You even have in the government itself the “one law - one justice for all” if. You never thought about it, were you? Well, think about it, please. Your salary depends on the average salary in the private sector: the average salary in the private sector rises, and so your salary is rising. Such rules apply to you. ( Insight: “To us! ”) ) But what you are doing now with respect to maintenance for children... We're talking about maintenance for children who obviously... Either, there's maybe either a mom or a dad or... They were subject to a similar mechanism, which was to attract a minimum wage. As is usually the case with normal governments: if the average wage in the country is raised, the government is also raising the minimum wage. Consequently, its attraction is also working in a rather similar way. But now you want this attraction to be removed. So you, honourable Members and ministers, will be subject to one rule that your pay will automatically rise along with the average salary in the country, but to children - completely other rules?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Did you learn it when you were a child? ( Independence: “I didn’t understand! ” ) You did not understand... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Gobzems: "They have not already read their budget, they only have to press the buttons!" ) I am truly, truly sorry. For in the world nothing, nothing disappears without consequences. Everything's coming back, absolutely everything. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U103	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U104	Colleagues! When I read this bill, it really seemed to me at some point that something was confused that the draft law had tried to punish those parents who did not keep their children. But, colleagues, this bill is about children who are not kept by their parents. (Applause) And what you are going to do is you are going to freeze support for them. You even wanted to establish in the law that the child under seven years of age will receive 107 euros and 50 cents and 129 euros from 7 to 18 years of age. Despite the fact that wages themselves will grow, that in the country the minimum wage will grow and that no one will be able to buy money at all after two years. Colleagues, and you do this in a situation where 40,000 children in Latvia are not cared about by their parents. You do this when each third family with one parent lives on the verge of poverty. The Ministry of Welfare itself recognises this. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (M. Bondar’s intermediate call.) At the moment when the new conservative party started in elections, it promised the medicine for all the faults. The formula was “500, 500, 500”. It's gonna cure everything. This is one of five hundred, and it looks like this medicine is an antibiotic that has abnormally severe side effects. In order to raise the salary to 500 euros per month, you take away maintenance for children, for those living in foster families; you take away residence... guaranteed funds for children who are not cared for by their parents; you take out money for disabled assistants and many other socially sensitive groups of society. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U105	Mr. Valains, would you have enough one minute? No, no. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U106	Not registered: Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla, Aldis Blumbergs, Boriss Cilevičs, Ilmārs Dūritis, Inese Ikstena, Ivans Klementjevs, Armands Krauze and Evija Papule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U107	Thank you. Interruption until 10.45 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U108	Dear colleagues, We're continuing the Saeima sitting. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund”. Debate on proposal 1. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U109	Colleagues! The question is: will this draft law and this proposal, in a way, also help you return to the principles of normal governance? Does this draft law demonstrate good governance? Good governance, for which are you very much engaged? This draft law does not demonstrate it. This draft law is brought forward without discussion with the people to whom it relates. And what is that? It's a little bit... This is one of the many laws on which we talked all day and today will continue to talk about one important thing. Colleagues! The minimum wage will increase in 2021. And in normal order, by increasing the minimum wage, the Ministry of Finance always counted the costs that come from the state budget with the increase in the minimum wage. Colleagues! With this proposal from the budget, with this draft law, you are simply avoiding increasing this stalemate. These are the side effects that Dana Reizniece-Ozola spoke about. Colleagues! It's cool to raise the minimum wage, but be consistent. And other laws as well... Why do we need these changes? Now, what do we, the opposition, do we do at a time when we see that a draft law that has nothing to do with next year's budget is being driven? Absolutely nothing to do with next year's budget, absolutely zero! You can also read this in the opinion of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, where you are asking for this bill. get out of the budget package. What is the rule of law, colleagues? You are talking about the rule of law, but at the same time you are acting illegally. This bill did not have to be here. This bill should have been seen normally - in three readings, call on all the social partners and, in essence, discuss, colleagues! This proposal is about... This proposal is about allowing you to correct this error and return it all back as it was. And the next proposal is. Colleagues, you are putting such important issues forward without discussion! 500 euros - minimum wage. That's cool! But do unto the end. Do it in full, not in half. We will give people EUR 500 in salary, but we forget about the ladder that comes with it. On the contrary, on the contrary, we are doing our utmost to make people's lives worse. Colleagues, that's what we've been talking about for the second day here from the mall. And this is another law we have to talk about. So what are you doing? You expect the opposition to keep us quiet? Well, I'm sorry, that won't happen! We will come and talk here to open your eyes. Now awaken your conscience at some point! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U110	Thank you. It's over. First name to Health Minister Ilze Viņķelis. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “ Colleagues, it was for you!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U111	Colleagues! We (we mean a coalition) obviously also owe an explanation for yesterday. In particular, many emotional offers - a series of social benefits and, at the moment, support for decoupling from the minimum wage. Why is this done? Because we want to build a modern social policy in Latvia. Minimum wage in Latvia... This is an administrative concept, it is, in principle, an agreement between employers, trade unions and government, and it concerns labour relations, it applies to everything except social policy. Such linking shall, in principle, prevent targeted and effective early intervention where necessary. Social groups have different needs. And if we attach everything to the minimum wage, in fact, we can even slow down the improvement of the situation in those social groups where it would be needed more quickly. In modern social security policies, link indicators for benefits are not minimum wages. This is an increase in gross domestic product, it is a price index, it is an average rate of income growth, that is what we have been written about in the government declaration and to which we will go. It is the implementation of the concept of a minimum income level in life. And let us not deceive society! Decoupled from the minimum wage does not decrease or decrease the amount of support for the disabled’s assistants or the Maintenance Guarantee Fund. I invite you to work together to introduce the very necessary concept of minimum income level in Latvia as soon as possible. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U112	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U113	Public, you've just heard Mrs. Viņķele lied to you just out of the Saeima. I took an annotation for the particular draft law, and there's a black to white written reason why this offer is being made. And I quote: “As a result of decoupling of the amount of maintenance from the minimum wage, the increase in the state budget expenditure is limited in the future.” In particular, if the minimum wage would increase by EUR 10, then the state budget would have to pay 1.3 million in additional maintenance. They say that. They want to untie... from a minimum wage so as not to raise the cost of maintenance for families where one parent is raising children. There are more than 40,000 such families. And the same applies to any question - the helpers of the disabled, the families and everything else. What you, dear people, want to say is that we will now have a minimum wage of 500, they want to raise this minimum wage by separating all the most vulnerable social groups from the minimum wage, so that the help that these more vulnerable groups need should not be increased. And if we, Mrs Viņķele, are talking about gross domestic product, then you should know that gross domestic product is also rising when the electricity price is raised, when taxes are raised, and that gross domestic product does not indicate economic health or ill health. That this is just a fictional fictitious figure. The economic health is illustrated by the small or large non-negotiable minimum wage. Therefore, dear people, once again - very carefully! Also in this section, children living without one parent will be deprived of their money. It will be reduced at the expense of party funding, increase of civil service remuneration, increase of Members' remuneration, increase of Kariņš' bodyguards and in such a way. Dear people, don't let it! You're going to axe like sheep again! Understand it once. Because Viņķele will climb in the tributary and lies openly contrary to what is written in the annotation of the bill. And it is written there that we need to decouple from the minimum wage so that we do not have to increase the amount of maintenance. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Interdependence of Reizniece-Ozola. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U114	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U115	Dear colleagues, Honorary members of the Cabinet of Ministers! Change, please, those who write in front of you on a paper for your thesis, because you have to look at the annotations of the bill. What you say, both Mr Reira and Mrs Viņķele, are not - absolutely not! - true, because we are currently talking about accompanying draft laws on the budget. We're not talking about thinking your wishes... as you have. Finally, we have also called for a reduction in the amount of premiums in the event of one minister replacing another. I understand that Mrs Viņķele is currently speaking in place of Mrs Petraviča. We are calling for Mrs Viņķele to receive, not an increase of 50 per cent, the fact that she is speaking instead of Mrs Petraviča, but only 30 - just like all the other officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U116	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U117	I fully agree with what Mrs Viņķele said that attracting child support to the minimum monthly salary is wrong and even criminal. Yeah... I will repeat - I think for the third time in this debate - that according to the World Bank study in Latvia, the poverty threshold should be EUR 19.70 per day, or EUR 594 per month. Of course, it may be that these calculations are for an adult, but I would remind you that currently the amount of maintenance in Latvia is determined for children under seven years of age in the amount of 25 per cent of the minimum monthly salary, and this year and next year they will be 107.50 euros, for children between 7 and 18 years of age - 30 per cent of the minimum monthly salary, and they are 129 euros. What the coalition will now vote on means that you will deny those children a month... From 2021 for children under seven years respectively, 125 euros and 150 euros for children between 7 and 18 years of age. That's the economy that... of which is written in this annotation. And all the promises we're making here... that you will change social policy and so on, there are now empty words. Like the five options that Mr. Reira said yesterday, which no one has ever seen yet... I doubt that Mrs Petraviča himself has seen and knows about the five options; at least here there is nothing about it from the gallery. Once again, the law that we are talking about clearly concerns both human rights and children's rights. Once again - children's rights! We're not talking about parents, responsible, irresponsible... why they left the family, why they divorced and so forth. We are talking about children and their right to eat and live normally in our country.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U118	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U119	Thank you, Mrs Viņķele, for trying to explain, but yet this explanation is definitely useless. I think that the commissions responsible for the Saeima understand that this bill does not fit in with the budget package, but only the commission responsible, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, is the one that nevertheless considers it to be appropriate. What you have talked about, Mrs Viņķele, is absolutely right. And then it needs to be debated in the Saeima as well. Nothing will change next year. The following year, too, you were able to decouple all these cuts from the minimum wage and the more modern things you're talking about, they were able to talk about. At the moment, we are seeing only that you are not normally introducing a minimum wage of EUR 500, but you are already looking at how to save, and you are saving precisely on the most vulnerable people - on social guarantees. That's where you save, nothing of what you said... We haven't seen anything like that here.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U120	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U121	Colleagues, I would also be pleased that indeed the government would offer us a vision of a modern, modern social support system, but unfortunately there are no offers. What we are seeing is the plan that, in 2021, 2.9 million will be saved for disabled assistants, 2.6 million for expenditure under the Maintenance Guarantee Fund, 162 000 for maintenance for children. No one is present in euro. This is a savings that are directed towards other government priorities, and even more so! - If other draft laws provided that the Cabinet of Ministers had a delegation to determine this amount, that means, to a certain extent, really flexibility and rapid reaction, then in this draft law, if you wanted to enter exact amounts in the law - where is flexibility here? (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U122	Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U123	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, We are hearing very much today's comments, including from the FAO, that all the policies proposed are very incomplete, but at the same time, when justified arguments are being made here from the government, for example, I think in this case Mrs Viņķele's indication that attracting to the minimum wage is not exactly the right way to regulate this kind of public investment in social security - what we are hearing in response is... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Ločmele-Lunova: "Do this at the same time as the new policy initiative!" ) What we hear in the answer is that this is a false message. One thing. I have just checked the publications of both the OECD and the World Bank. That's it. Indeed, attracting minimum wages is not the most progressive and modern way to do so. At the same time, there is also a lot about policies that do not have the resources at our Government’s disposal. — Insight. , and refers specifically to the reform of previous government health financing as a major error. The OECD points out that it needs to be corrected and it is good that the new government has started to correct it. The second thing to which it makes clear is that our lack of resources is partly due to the delay in administrative territorial reform, and the OECD warmly recommends its implementation. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Depp. A. Gobzems: “What is the link between maintenance and administrative reform?” Thank you very much. That's it. Look at the OECD report on Latvia in 2019! It is clear there that the fact that we have not yet implemented administrative reform and that the municipalities are so small... ( Milestones.) the lack of resources is largely linked to the fact that the municipalities are so small. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Let us also be self-critical, colleagues of the opposition, and not just point out our hypocrisy all the time! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U124	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U125	Colleagues, it is very good that you have finally come down from, so to say, your summits and start talking to us, but that will not help. Mrs Viņķele says that it is not progressive and so on. All right! I am ready to accept this argument, but what you are saying means that this proposal has no place in the budget package. Then take it out because it also has no direct financial impact. Take it out and move it in the usual order! Then the question is, why aren't you doing it? I will not even ask why you did not do this when you were Minister for Welfare. Okay. If you say so, follow your words. Take it out, move it in the usual order! Let us talk about the most advanced ways of attracting benefits. But you know that you're doing this not because you're looking for a better policy. , but this is just a financial consideration. ( Internoint.) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U126	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U127	I cannot understand one thing: for children, we are drawing away from the minimum wage, but for Members, we have attracted an average wage... Perhaps we exchange the opposite: children's maintenance is attracted to the average wage, but Members are also drawing away from the minimum wage? That's No. 1. Mrs. Golubev! In a normal country, the concept of what the system will be, not... Now we're getting off and then we're going to think about the order. It also proves this absurdity of all that you have not even figured out what its future will be. And finished. What is the greatest absurdity in this budget at all - we have a budgetary base, and that is how such a figure π - is beyond consideration at all. Inviolable, inviolable... that is absurd. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U128	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U129	The Commission has not supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U130	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Members Stepanenko, Scrapie, Liepaja, Gobzem and Schmidt's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 30, 51, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U131	Proposal 2 is Mr Valaiņa's proposal to suspend the authorisation of firearms for debtors. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U132	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U133	Colleagues! This proposal (and also the next one) is also a proposal already presented in the budget for the previous year. In my opinion, if we were to go this way, it would be similar to what was adopted by the previous Saeima. Currently, the right to a driver’s licence is restricted to holders of maintenance benefits. Member Neighbours is certainly very much in the course of this proposal. He was one of the most active drivers. And I think this approach should be continued and extended. We have 40,000 survivors. We have a very large amount of money that we will spend on these things from the state budget and this year, too, from the budget. And it would be only logical if we expanded... go on this road. And with regard to certain things, as in this proposal, for example, we would also complement and restrict these people... Well, outside of primary things... extraordinary entertainment... We took a decision in the previous Saeima, and no one planned to change that decision with regard to driving licences; that is what I think is... one of such primary issues. We made such a decision, however, and, as it says, when it works successfully, these alimony non-payers are beginning to turn to paying alimites. And now these proposals are about... Well, let's say, beyond meeting the primary needs... And here you go... Why would a man go hunting if he was an alimonian? ( Internouncing call.) Why? Why? ( Internouncing call.) We can take away the right, but limit the opportunity for an alimony to go hunting... Well, he's already... not go food for yourself try to hunt, but go just to have fun. And in these circumstances, I think it would be only reasonable to continue on this path. I hope that the Member will also support it. There will also be the next proposal. And, colleagues, please say a word about this. But I think it would be just smart. The question is, where to take the medical salary? We made provisional calculations. We planned that, from supporting this proposal and the next one, they could be around 2 million, which, colleagues, you could save and channel into the budget... I don't even tell you what needs you, no matter where you want. But it's a source, a real source, where to get money, colleagues. I call for support and continuation of the path undertaken by the previous Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U134	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U135	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission presented the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund” very quickly, and the Minister of Justice also noted that it is very difficult to collect these maintenances, and this is a problem. Mr. Valaiņa's offer improves the repayment of these maintenances. We also read that the explanatory memorandum to the bill states: indeed, yes, more than 40,000 parents do not fulfil this obligation - to keep their children - and the fund pays €4.5 million on average every month to support families. So to facilitate the recovery of debts, which are now... exceeds EUR 320 million already, and new mechanisms are being introduced to motivate debtors to motivate parents to comply with the statutory obligation to provide a child with maintenance. And now the law of the Maintenance Guarantee Fund provides for several possibilities. Consequently, the debtor in whose place the maintenance is paid in the course of administrative proceedings is entitled to enter into an agreement on the arrangements under which he makes the payment of the debt, the debtor is exempt from the obligation to pay the calculated legal interest in accordance with the prescribed procedure... and there are several restrictions. Thus, information about the debtor is publicly available in Latvia.lv, the debtor may be subject to a ban on the exercise of the right to drive vehicles and vessels. Mr. Neighbours, your initiative. Why do you not support Mr Valaiņa's initiative? The debtor may be suspended from the firearms authorisation operation. The debtor may be held criminally liable for the avoidance of the maintenance of the child and other restrictions. And these measures have resulted in a significant increase in the amount of debt recovered. For example, in 2018, an average of 16 per cent of the issued maintenance was recovered, in 2019. - 21 per cent, while in July 2019 - already 23.8 per cent. However, despite the restrictions imposed, which have contributed to the increase in recoveries, the overall debt-to-country debt of non-payers continues to grow annually. Colleagues, where is the problem? This is the solution. Why aren't you in favour? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U136	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U137	Colleagues! The government has not supported this proposal. I think this is a very good opportunity for the Saeima to support a good initiative. Why do I say that? This proposal, proposed by Mr. Valaiņš, is aimed at people who do not care about their children... they are entered in the register of self-employed persons. What does that mean? These people will not be allowed to play gambling. In a situation where the annual budget for the Maintenance Guarantee Fund is 58 million and it is indeed growing every year, the State is only able to recover 7.9 million. As a great success last year, we celebrated the fact that 7.9 million of 58 countries have managed to recover. Solutions must be sought - not how to limit the costs for children who really need this money, but how to limit the number of people who irreverently avoid responsibility for children. And for which the state pays for them. This, in my opinion, is a very good proposal... those who do not care about children, and especially if they are sometimes being abused, that they cannot go and play gambling. Mr Feldman, your chance to show that you are really against gambling lobbying! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Another soup will be?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U138	The name to the Member Martyn Stackey.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U139	Highly honored Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! I just wanted to point out that the Saeima has already voted in favour of this in the Arms Movement Law, which provides that a permit to carry a weapon is suspended if he is in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund... ( Interface: ‘ Another proposal! ’) ; dep. D. Interdependence of Reizniece-Ozola.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U140	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U141	Mr. Stacker! You have to follow me! This proposal is not about weapons, about gambling. Because I understand that you, Development/About! , are you the lot that feeds on gambling sponsors, huh? And for you it is very important. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (M. Stein) This proposal will be proof of the fact that the UKP only speaks but does nothing, because after this discussion the UKP will vote 'no'. It is absolutely clear that they will vote against the restriction of gambling in respect of those persons who are non-payers of maintenance. Where could an even more classic situation be - maintenance cannot be paid, but gambling can be played?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Therefore, Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal is fully supported. And, Mr. Stakis, please follow the agenda. If not, I still have coloring books and flomesters. I can give them to you too, if you are boring in the budget and you do not know what the particular issue is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U142	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U143	Hello, colleagues! This was indeed my proposal here, too, from the troupe, that the use of driving licences should be banned for these survivors of maintenance. That's right, Mr. Valaiņš. If honest, I will support your proposal. But we've talked to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs about how to limit yet more so as not to have this so-called extra, so the water engine... watermocks and so... Driver's rights - they have been withdrawn. We also talked about the fact that (Interface: “A yachts?” )... We talked... It's also... And we talked about the fact that we cannot technically take off fishing licences, because in any Narvesen you can enter and buy a fishing card. That is the problem. It's a technical performance. The national forestry service is the one who issues hunting permits. Now let them fight once in half a year! I will support this case. On a gambling case. It's that... Of course, if you don't pay for your kids, someone at all... What we're talking about here, what gambling! No way! But here's the technical performance again. This inspectorate responsible for gambling... If the fund provides information that let's assume person X is such a payer, then they have that information, but in all of those so-called casinos or, I don't know, in gaming halls... there is no single register. It's the same... the same persons X... they go and voluntarily apply accordingly: “I pray, don’t let me in there!” In nature, that's it. I will therefore really support your proposal. And the meaning of its law is absolutely clear. I completely agree with you! How, though, is this technically possible? I don't know the solution. We have discussed it, we are looking for a solution. I say, I will support you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U144	Name... I closed the debate. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U145	Yes, the panel took into account both the arguments put forward by Mr Staķis and those put forward by Mr Kaiminis and therefore decided not to support them (Dep. I. Zarins: “The opposition arguments have not been taken into account!” ), this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U146	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 34, for - 50, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U147	3. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission that the Cabinet of Ministers determines the amount of maintenance to be paid from the Fund. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U148	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U149	Dear colleagues, So we're going on with the topic of decoupling the minimum amount of support from the minimum wage. Here we have come to a situation like this... The Government had planned to introduce this amount of maintenance into the law, and the Minister of Justice also told the Legal Commission that the amount of maintenance was slightly increased... Let's say, until what's now... from EUR 430 (minimum monthly salary)... About... on average three euros... So it has slightly increased in this bill. And it's as if we can say that a little bit of maintenance has been raised, isn't it? You can also be proud of it. But at the same time we see that this solution, proposed by the government, called for the exact amount of maintenance in the law, not in the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, to which it could be hoped that the Cabinet, following the situation, could also change these maintenances up. Of course, we were offered a law here. Here we were offered to set it in law. Of course, compared to Members' salaries, which have a coefficient, and Members' salaries are automatically rising every year. Here, in order to change the amount of maintenance, it was simply stipulated that the law should be amended, and this law should be amended, probably every year, following economic growth. But I understand that colleagues from Development/About! wanting a progressive social policy and progressive social policy means placing vulnerable groups in the second plan and paying their own priorities and their own yellow cups from the state budget as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U150	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U151	We take away children's maintenance, for example, so that Member Inese Voika can make another yellow party for Development/About! The bag on which to stick the sticker: “We support the doctors!” , and voting then “to” medical doctors to increase party funding for himself seven times. It is about a coalition that acts in all these proposals. It is absolutely clear that the only way to revitalise our country at all is if the child will be a priority in our country. I understand that there are many people here who have no children and for whom children are not a priority... but only the country where the child is a priority... in which the child not only has to fight for minimal maintenance, but who could afford to receive maintenance, such as salaries, because they are not detached from anything, they will immediately increase. Strong more than the amount of maintenance, by the way. Only then can the country flourish. The country will be able to flourish when Members like Inese Voika don't stick stick stickers on their bags... parties that will be bought for taxpayers' money, with as if support for doctors... but when these children receive medical care from unrecycled and well-paid medical doctors. Our country will flourish if children are able to study in excellent educational institutions, which are not closed, but are opened in Latvia as much as possible and provided with free lunch provided by the state, as well as excellent lecturers provided by the state... Not spending, for example, on political tourism trips, not spending, for example, in their own cars, which are here along the Saeima, or in bodyguards, or they don't know how... In petrol, like Mr Butane, who needs a further EUR 40 per wage, because he cannot afford, poor, EUR 3 300 per salary to pay for petrol himself. That's why we're taking the kids away. That's why we're taking away the maintenance. Those children are not to blame for having only one parent who bring them up... More than 40,000 children... Therefore, in our country, too, nothing can succeed, that in our country, politicians do not even care for children. Although politicians should do this first, the first should take care of the most vulnerable part of our country's society, which cannot take care of itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U152	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U153	Thank you to my colleagues who supported my previous proposal, and I apologise to Mr Stakis, there was a slight misunderstanding with the previous proposal. And Mr. Znotins... Follow the proposals a little more closely. But either on this particular proposal. This proposal basically shows how hasty the draft law itself has been drafted. As Mrs Stepanenko has already said, there have already been fixed amounts of money in the bill. The law... And it's a law that... The government has sent to the Saeima, and the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission of the Saeima is then making these changes to introduce this so-called flexibility. But this is just one example that only confirms that this bill is not only prepared in a poor quality but prepared in a great hurry. Because I think the government representatives, too, did not at any time intend to incorporate such a fool into the law. But it was done, and the Saeima had to correct it. Next question. This proposal also goes hand in hand with proposal 1, where... our colleague, a Member from Development/About! , said that we criticised too much. Colleagues, that criticism is absolutely in place! If we are talking about OECD reviews, let us really read them, let us really debate them! Now... The proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission is about correcting a very, very gross error. And you say nothing will change! What do you mean, you're not gonna change? How can you say that nothing will change?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There are specific figures in the annotation... that not only does not change, but also changes to the detriment of beneficiaries of the Maintenance Guarantee Fund. There is already a problem that we are talking about here all the time. You're telling me the ZZS... that there have been severe, large, incorrect reforms... Of course. I mentioned earlier. You simply removed its reforms halfway and did not offer anything. With a large pump to undo and stay with it. So where are all the big initiatives by Mrs. Viņķele on payments, on equal tax regimes? Where did all this go? It remained in your own group, left with you! And that's why the doctors are protesting today. The medicine picks up precisely because you don't have enough nausea to vote normally on the health... law and do what Mrs. Viņķele said... to the end. You don't have enough nausea. You learned beautifully to cancel, but you didn't learn to do anything further. Well, colleagues... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M. Bondar: “I like your smile!” ; dep. V. Valaiņš' intermediate call. Depp. Bondar: “I saw you smile!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U154	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U155	Dear colleagues, I know a lot of you... probably you have not looked at what proposal we are now talking about. It's some kind of... Proposal 3, if? I'll explain to you. Currently, the amount of maintenance is recorded in the law, so - certain amounts that every child must pay. The essence of the proposal is to say that it is determined by the government. So, colleagues, think of you, please! This proposal has no fiscal impact. Do you really want to entrust your government with the decision-making on maintenance now that you have heard about everything your government has worked for the second day? Maybe it's better to keep it in the law? ( Internouncing call.) For there is something in the government that we can now call Petraviča doctrine. That is, if the unemployed person finds a job within an average of four months, then the unemployment benefit needs to be reduced. So... What if this government applies to the maintenance of Petraviča’s doctrine? Do you motivate children who are without parents to find parents more quickly if? And then you will have the next step - you will be offered by the government to reduce the amount of maintenance for children: because of the average... On average, the child can find new parents in the course of the year, we will pay children maintenance only, maximum, year. Now that's Petraviča's doctrine, now also signed by Prime Minister Kariņš. So, colleagues, do you really want to think: do you really want to entrust this to the government? Or would it be better for all of this to be clearly laid down in law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U156	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U157	We are talking about child support. What is the coalition doing? It's knocking, it's talking to each other. They're not interested in children. They don't care what's said. Let's take away the support for those kids! It's nothing that they can also recover their maintenance, take it away from court, and so on. That's the coalition. They're sitting. I'll take a picture. Sitting with Asheraden now. We’re talking about maintenance (Dep. Mr Feldman: "You can on the proposal?" )... They're standing and knocking just. They're not interested in maintenance!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U158	Mr. Gobzem! Now go back to the debate on the proposal. Be so kind!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U159	Set the order for your coalition Members, Mrs Murniece!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U160	Go back to the debate on the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U161	Set the order for your coalition Members so that they don't knock!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U162	Go back to the debate on the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U163	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U164	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U165	Colleagues, this is a proposal that enlightenes the fact that the coalition at some point realized that there was no confusion. That what they wanted to do secretly in all other draft laws, delegated the possibility to determine the amount of social support to the Cabinet of Ministers... Then there was some hand lost or pen, and it entered into the law. Because there is no intention to increase anything. I could support this proposal if it really were to be the case that, together with it, it would include an increase in the budget in 2021 and greater support for those children who do not receive funds from their parents but from the Maintenance Guarantee Fund. As this proposal comes together with minus 2.6 million in 2021, it cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U166	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U167	I would like to draw attention to another detail, which was also absent from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission when we discussed this issue. This is about where the government found them 18 million to offer doctors to increase their salary fund next year. I quote: “At the beginning of the medical protests, the government revalued the planned budget expenditure and found several million more euros. 1. From the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - 3.2 million, i.e. by postponing the opening of the Embassy in Australia, 5 million euros from the “Latvian State Forests” profit,” and now - attention: “2 million from the Maintenance Guarantee Fund, which will require less than 2 million euros if the sums to be recovered are improved.” What are we talking about now? That's the same story that I drew attention to yesterday. All the work done by the Ministry of Finance in drawing up the legislative package accompanying this budget is an attempt to sort out figures, fiscal space, and it has nothing to do with a real assessment of the state of public finances. Absolutely! I ask you to vote in such a way that the amount of maintenance is not decoupled from the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U168	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U169	Mr. Prime Minister! I'll talk to you. Increasing the minimum wage has always cost itself some extra costs. There are no questions about this. It has always been debated, and it has always been included in the budget. Why do we have to vote today on all these draft laws, calling them modern... on moving in a modern direction, in essence... Well, we're not blind. In essence, this means that you simply do not want to carry out this ladder by increasing the minimum wage, understanding that it requires extra costs. It is no different to raise this minimum wage and amend the accompanying laws... we can't say... no one has explained this in substance today. There were various attempts to explain, but now I'm sorry, these were no explanations. It was... try to tell you that nothing is changing. No changes next year. In 2021... Yeah...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U170	(Don't talk on the microphone.) ... It's over. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U171	In the Commission, proposal 3 is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U172	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - The proposal submitted by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No. - 53, no. - 17, no. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U173	4. - the proposal of Members Švekova and Ločmele-Luniv on the possibility of the Cabinet of Ministers to increase the amount of maintenance, taking into account the increase in the minimum monthly salary. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U174	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U175	The essence of my proposal is to link the determination of the amount of maintenance to the increase in the minimum monthly salary. I will read to you the version proposed by the ruling coalition for the evaluation of the amount of maintenance in paragraph 20. The article reads: “The amount of maintenance shall be reviewed upon a proposal of the Minister of Justice, taking into account the economic situation of the country and the state budget opportunities.” Wouldn't it be right for us to have 40,000 children growing up without the support of our parents? Defining the budget that it is a budget that brings Latvia closer to the values of the Nordic countries... Are these 40 thousand children not Latvian value? Is it worth that the Minister of Justice intended to determine for himself the extent to which, taking into account the economic situation and the possibilities of the state budget, it would support children? It seems to me that this norm was absurd, a clear ridicule for children. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U176	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U177	Colleagues! I would like to say two things. It was said here from the tribunal that the state does not want to save at the expense of the children, at the expense of the maintenance. This is not true, because the representative of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Cases from the Ministry of Justice also pointed out this savings, which is expected from 2021 and is planned to be directed specifically towards raising judges' salaries. That's one thing. And the other thing. You are saying that this is a budget that will reduce inequalities. And that is not true either. Because with this change, the costs of the Maintenance Guarantee Fund will no longer be linked to the minimum wage, and there will also be inequalities between those children who will receive support from honest parents, because they will still be attracted to the minimum wage... But this guarantee fund will no longer cost. So - either put things in the right words, as it is - that this amendment will still multiply this inequality - or... Well, it doesn't make sense to write you one thing, but there's something completely different in your works. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U178	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U179	In a way, this proposal is intended to return to its old, old-fashioned, totally useless and harmful state... And yet it is. And here come colleagues to defend this proposal and tell us where it is. The government is now offering, as Mrs Golubeva said, a modern... as Mrs Viņķele said, a modern approach to this issue. As I read it, it is quite simply a budget search (Mr. Liepāja has just confirmed it)... and the search for budgetary resources at the expense of the persons referred to in the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund. Well, come on and try to tell me if it really isn't... Well, I think it is that you simply cannot do it in order to raise a minimum wage of EUR 500, and you simply need to untie this link. It costs some money, and it has nothing to do with it. At the moment, I think you're stinging about some modern policies. This has nothing to do with modern policies. Again. It has nothing to do with next year's budget, absolutely nothing to do with it (Dep. (M. Bondar’s intermediate call.) , and, Mr Bondara, you, as the excellent Head of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, could ever go into the issues that you are heading through the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. It is the responsible commission that assesses the substance of the matter. And the commission responsible, which has assessed these accompanying drafts, has not only rejected them (Dep. Bondar: “I can’t always provide a television camera in the budget commission!” ), considering that these draft laws have not been debated and debated. I read all these draft laws as one thing: let's try somewhere to find funds. We want to raise EUR 500. We cannot do this because, you see, there is everything connected with this wage of EUR 500. Well, so let's sit down! This draft law was... You will introduce... You're so... Well, a failed error, where you just... this error simply lits all as it actually is. This has nothing to do with new policies. This is simply a saving of resources (Applause.) to some, new reforms, new proposals... Well, party financing - is that why we do all this? EUR 500 minimum wage? If there is such an arrangement, the New Conservative Party, understand that it has some effect! And it has to be done, it has to deal with these challenges, not simply changing social laws now, changing these links, simply obtaining money in the budget. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U180	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U181	Dear colleagues, Dear Society! Please do not believe the lies that come from the government today! It is not possible to make a reform of maintenance funds in less than a month, because that is what Mrs Viņķele and Mrs Golubeva have tried to do for you today. There is no mention of any progressive, different approach to maintenance in the annex to the draft law. No word, colleagues! (Applause) What you wanted, Mrs Viņķele and Mrs Golubeva, to say to us is that we need to change this approach... and you wanted to get it through from 17 September until 14 October. Are you really doing these reforms in this way? It is said that “at the same time it should be stressed that amendments to the Fund Law do not change the obligation to provide every child with maintenance, as stipulated in Section 179(5) of the Civil Law, at least to the minimum amount established by the Cabinet of Ministers”. Mrs. Liepaja is absolutely right. This inequality, to which the government is moving society, is evident in this draft law. And the draft law will not prevent parents from agreeing with each other on the way in which they, according to their capabilities, bear monthly expenses for the maintenance of the child in order to ensure the best possible physical and mental development of the child according to the circumstances. Something has even been released here, so you havetened so much. It should also be stressed that although the draft law provides for a constant amount to be paid from the Fund, while respecting the objective of establishing the Fund, it is provided that the amount of maintenance is reviewed upon the recommendation of the Minister of Justice, taking into account the economic situation of the State and possibilities of the state budget. And this norm was incorporated into the bill. And it's also written in the annotation. So the Justice Minister had told himself... one PR event that he could come up with every year, telling him that he has decided to raise the maintenance. You, my fellow Members, do you really think that this is the right way to work on draft laws at all, on the budget? Is that really right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U182	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U183	Colleagues! If this draft law and the specific article were to stipulate that the provision of support is to be increased and is to be done in accordance with a modern social support system, everything would be excellent and I would be happy to support. But what does it really say? That it will only do so if the Minister of Justice pleases and if the budget allows it. But every year we hear from you that the budget does not allow anything. This means that it will never be done. (Applause) Well, generally speaking, you can agree that the reform of the system is necessary, but... Colleagues, Puce is at least trying to... But in general, this government and reforms - it's like Ostap Benders and chess. The first moves are made, but then he realizes nothing... I don't know how to do this... and is starting to put figures in the beam. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U184	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U185	Mārtiņš Bondars, Head of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission of the Saeima, says to the Committee on Budget and Finance (Tax) of the Saeima: "I do not know everything about EUR 10 billion. It's happened this time. not as it should be. Is Bondar Simple.” It's Mārtiņš Bondars at the Saeima's Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. He also says, by the way, at the same meeting of the commission: “The stupid is to make laws that cannot be enforced.” Reflecting on this statement by the Head of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission that he does not know what is written in the budget, it can be said that such a budget, which is not even known by the Head of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, has come to the Saeima. And this is proof of the fact that this budget and the negotiation and adoption of this budget are a farce. In this Chamber, most or most of them have no idea what is in the budget, there is no desire to go into this document at all. And the only thing that everyone is waiting for today is for it to be adopted more quickly. Therefore, the duration of the speeches was reduced in order to allocate seven-fold funding to the parties. That is what the coalition is waiting for - the faster it will be, the better it is. Everything else's not interested. This is the most important event of the day. This budget is also a farce for the reason that it is not possible for any successful company to go into the discussions on future financial indicators without going into depth and analysis of what has been so far. But our Heads of State, including Karini, say: we don't need to discuss the base. It is an inviolable size; under no circumstances should it be moved. We can only discuss their addition, these extra 500 or 700 million, but we must under no circumstances analyse how correct or wrong the base, most of the budget is. That is the understanding of state leadership. There is, in fact, no understanding at all. And in fact, the people who lead the country don't want to go into these matters at all. They want to accept the increase in party funding more quickly. The only thing they're here is to get from next year's seven times more funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U186	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U187	It is very good that Mr Bondara will be speaking immediately after me, because I also have questions about the possibility of a constructive opinion on the budget and its positions. For example, on Friday, the work of the Commission led by Mr Bondara was organised in such a way that not all the proposals that affected particular ministries... that they had certain representatives of the ministries. Well, for example, we discussed the budget line of the Ministry of the Interior when only the Ministry of Justice was present... But if we are talking about this particular proposal, the representative of the Ministry of Justice at the meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission confirmed... The question “Why is this untying happening?” she clearly and lightly said, “We don’t have money!” So that's the main thing, and it has nothing to do with children's care, children's rights, or plans to introduce a modern approach to social policy in Latvia. Please, Mr Bondara, you have something to say about this? I hope that this will be about children and children's rights.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U188	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U189	Listening to today's debate both on this - 4. - the proposal, as well as other proposals, has the feeling that today... more precisely, a sitting that started yesterday and continues today could be called “All that to the heart”. But when it comes to proposal 4, colleagues can, of course, already focus on the fact that it is written there that the Minister of Justice determines their minimum size. But I can tell you right away that in proposal 5 this 4. ... or, more precisely, we exclude this article. So it's okay! So, colleagues, please get to know the whole document more carefully. Because otherwise... Otherwise you will have a debate... Well, that's... for everything on the heart. Thank you. ( Subtitle: “The table has been drawn up incorrectly! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U190	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U191	Colleagues! ‘ For everything to the heart.” Indeed, Mr Bondara, you should listen more carefully, and also, representatives of the government, listen to what we are saying. We are criticising this budget, and I think it is our main job today - to criticise this budget and to do it as constructively as possible. Today you climb twice... on these questions, and thank you to Mr Reira, who tried to answer, in essence tried to answer one of the previous draft laws. But now from the coalition these explanations are not on the subject! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Asheraden’s intermediate call sign.) Well, it's not a topic! There's no question of absolutely nothing! What the... Mr Bondar has just mentioned. What has to do with what we've been talking about here for an hour? Colleagues, we asked specific questions to the government. Now come explain!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U192	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U193	Such a coalition's behaviour and a budget of this kind, when it is actually taken away from the socially disadvantaged groups and it is said that it is stupid to adopt laws that we then fail to comply with ourselves, morally justify tax evasion. Because it's stupid to pay taxes to a coalition that doesn't comply with laws that take away children who take away medical doctors who take away teachers, disabled assistants who take away foster families and so on. It's today in the press morning already... is written in the press columns that in fact this coalition has given the green light to moral rights not to pay taxes to Latvian citizens. It's your... These are the consequences of your actions. It is already written by journalists that taxation in Latvia is not worth paying because these taxes are spent on increasing party financing.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U194	It's over. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U195	Dear colleagues, Perhaps Mr Bondara is right in that proposal 4 and proposal 5 should be debated in a complex manner. For if Proposal No 4 is not supported and the agenda will be followed by Proposal No 5, which the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission itself has developed and has supported, of course, then... in that case, this possibility to increase payments to the Maintenance Guarantee Fund as the economic situation improves... Thus, the situation described in this article will not provide for such a possibility. Now... The draft law had been proposed by the Minister of Justice. Proposal No 4... It's the encouragement of the Cabinet of Ministers... But this opportunity must be, in my opinion. What the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission is proposing in its proposal, proposal 5, is not the solution. This does not solve this situation. That is why I am calling for support for proposal 4 and for proposal 5 to be rejected. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U196	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U197	Dear colleagues, I'll tell you one secret. The chairman of the sitting is not Mrs Mūrniece. The chairman of the sitting is Mrs Strike. That must be recorded in the Rule of Procedure, so that everything can happen at Mrs. Strique's proposal. I have just seen how she called on Mr Bondara to withdraw her speech. But if we're talking about it... Everything on the heart... Mr Bondara, you remember that when you were 12. You came to the family in a pub with a box of shoes and searched that boot from the pub, it was a very beautiful element of the show. But it was really your speech, everything on the heart. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Nemiņš: “It wasn’t a boot! It was a shoe!” ) You already took that boot with you only to get into different news columns and photographs. And you're not... you are not concerned at all about this budget. We see it. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U198	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U199	Unfortunately, I must point out that Mr Bondara has once again deceived you. Because the essence of the fourth proposal was not to exclude Article 8 of the draft law... The article reads as follows: “The amount of maintenance shall be reviewed upon a proposal of the Minister of Justice, taking into account the economic situation of the country and the possibilities of the state budget.” Ms. Švelova and I offered to add: “Assessment of the amount of maintenance. The Cabinet of Ministers proposes an increase in the amount of maintenance allowance in view of the increase in the minimum monthly salary.’ And that... This part is not included in the Commission's proposal, which has been supported. So please do not deceive Members! ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U200	I closed the debate. ( Milestones.) The debate is closed. ( Intercretion: “I will make myself available! ”) ) The debate has already been closed. ( The box “Let it speak! ”) ) Is there anything to add to proposal 4?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U201	The proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U202	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the proposal put forward by the Members of the Parliaments of Sveceva and Ločmel-Lunova! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U203	Proposal 5 is a proposal by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission to exclude Article 8 of the draft law. The article provided for a review of the amount of support upon a proposal of the Minister of Justice, taking into account the economic situation of the country and the possibilities of the state budget. The Commission is supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U204	Members want to have a debate. Name to Member Gundars Many.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U205	Dear colleagues, Before voting in favour of this proposal, I call again on us to remember what our colleague Jānis Vucans has just said. If we exclude this article, there is no mechanism at all to decide whether to increase maintenance and apply it to the current situation. Think of what you're doing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U206	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U207	Dear colleagues, Since again for many of you it is simply some proposal No. 5, I'll tell you what it is. According to the current version: ‘The amount of maintenance shall be reviewed at the initiative of the Minister of Justice...’. And the essence of this proposal is to place the Cabinet of Ministers instead of the ‘Minister of Justice’. That is, if the current wording places personal responsibility directly on the Minister of Justice, then this proposal says no, it will be the whole responsibility of the Cabinet. I'm here... Colleagues, I call on you to think a little bit about whether it really is worth doing so, because the current version is doing something that is, quite a rare phenomenon in our public administration, that is to say, it determines the individual responsible for whether or not the maintenance... At least that's the suggestion... There will be or there will be. According to the Office of the SRSG on Children and Armed Conflict, he was responsible for recruitment and use of children in Ituri from 2002 to 2003. And if it is the Cabinet of Ministers, you know that means that all its members are responsible and, at the same time, no one is responsible. But here... Unfortunately, there is no colleague here, Mr Zarina, who could tell you one anecdotes about partners. Well, you probably know this joke. That is why I call on you, those parties that are not UKPs, to be a good partner for your colleague to the Minister for Justice! Leave this responsibility... that he is responsible for the clean rule of law. Then we will see next year whether the Minister of Justice, to say so, will have justified or will not meet the expectations of himself, and then it will be clear to us all who is responsible for whether... what is more important - the amount of maintenance or Liepaja prison, or which there is... Be a good partner! Do not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U208	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar. ( Internouncing call.) I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U209	This proposal is supported by the Commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - The proposal submitted by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 59, for - 14, for - 1. The proposal is supported. 6. - the proposal by Members Stepanenko, Sprūde, Liepāja, Gobzem and Schmidt to supplement the transitional provisions by providing for increased funding for maintenance, while at the same time giving up the planned funding for political parties. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U210	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U211	Dear colleagues, Our proposal is not an increase in funding. Our proposal determines: The Cabinet of Ministers, when drawing up the budget for 2021, ensure their amount... what you intend to save by separating the amount of maintenance from the minimum monthly salary. Do not touch what you have now grabbed in less than a month's time, insane thoughts! So, the EUR 1.35 million you take from single mothers or fathers, you should return and abandon your party financing model. And give up what you want to give yourself. Because when calculating this savings together with the savings of disabled assistants, together with the savings in the amount of the foster family allowance, you know, there is an amount that is very similar to the amount you are going to give yourself today. I have a reasonable suspicion that you save on these areas and take it for yourself. Yeah, where are you going to get the money from those parties? There is no word in the draft law on party financing. And it is not true that Mr Bondar says that the medical salary law was bound to provide for sources. He says he had to foresee sources, but at the same time he was very... the law on the financing of light hand-held parties, which does not specify the source of funding. I therefore call, honourable colleagues, on us to support our proposal and not to rob the family, single mothers and single fathers. The Honorary "Development/About!" But you want to be socially responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U212	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U213	Colleagues! I also call for support for this proposal by the opposition, because it will, by its very nature, equalise the injustice that you are trying to achieve with the draft law. I was particularly referred, of course, to Mr Bondara's debate. When he got up in this platform, he reminded me of the film “Limousine John’s Night Color” by one of the Latvian classics. When Mirttatant went to town with her new gullet, she went to all the local police officers (the militias sometimes called them at the time) and tried to say, “It’s my crossson, and I’m fine with paperwork.” Marty Bondar, unusual! Please come to the platform and tell us why you, as a Member, want to take away 2.6 million children who are currently receiving funding from the Maintenance Guarantee Fund, not from their parents, and not from the fact that you're all right with the paperwork! ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U214	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U215	I will quote the words of one journalist today: 'The increase in the budget is over 700 million, but the ruling coalition has noticed from this increase making a budget that is not one of pride, but one of which must be ashamed. A shameful budget. Congratulations to Krišjānis Kariņš on the “excellent” performance.” It is written by a Latvian journalist today. Dear Latvian society, you must legally go to the streets, otherwise they will continue to do so! ( Internouncing call.) You have to do this. You have to wake up, and at last you have to show that you are stronger than Viņķelis, who has been in politics since 1995 and promises, promises, promises, promises, and the Warn, who is in politics and promises, and promises, and all the others since 2002 (Dep. E. Zālīte-Grosa: “On the proposal!” ) which you have been here for decades...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U216	Mr Gobzem, talk about the specific proposal...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U217	Mrs. Moore, I know you like the bad boys, but be careful. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U218	... which provides for the addition of Article 12 of the transitional provisions to read as follows:...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U219	Be careful! It's easy to fall in love with me, but it's hard to forget. Be careful!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U220	Please be so kind, talk about the specific proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U221	Dear Latvian society! You can see that there will always be silence here if they speak for you, if they speak for you to defend you. You must get up and wake up, you must let go of this Saeima. Don't be afraid, you're stronger. Do it now!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U222	The specific proposal provides for the addition of Article 12 of the transitional provisions and proposes a different version. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U223	The proposal. The proposal provides, by its very nature, for strengthening by transitional provisions what is already in place in the law, without altering the old regime. Colleagues! It is a proposal that, as I said, calls for a return to its old, unnecessary and bad system. And we are now doing this as a mere criticism of your new system, and the only arguments that have been in favour of this draft law are not going through any criticism, they call it a modern approach and... that it will not in any way affect beneficiaries of payments by the Maintenance Guarantee Fund. It will affect, and it is written in this budget, and it is misleading Members if they say it will not affect them. We call, however, for strengthening... return to the old regulation, and if you have ideas of some new regulation, then come in order, talk about what the new regulation will be. We accept together, we understand what we are voting on. Now... What else do you mean? No one comes to explain what the new order here, the new policy, and is it really that we are... that there is some mistake in this bill? Maybe we read something wrong... That these are not the millions that are removed from this fund? That this is something else and that money may go for something more noble? So let's talk about it! Let's see how... for what purpose then goes that money. We will certainly be discussing this later today. The question of where you have been looking for these sources. We're calling on you not to be on this subject... Look somewhere else! We have offered sources, you have not assessed them. Even in this bill, 2 million is a real source. You beautifully rejected it, although it was a source, colleagues. Everything stays old. A new policy has been introduced. The new policy without any explanation. New governance principles. Are these governance principles, colleagues? Its criticism is in place, and you should not write on Twitter and still know where that opposition is doing some unimaginable things you've never seen before. Very normal debates, to which we simply do not get answers. And the next draft law, which will be “Amendments to the Education Act”, will only confirm it. You have understood what the amendments to the Education Act are about. These draft laws are exactly the same as the amendments to the Education Law. You just don't think you can take this. When it comes to closing schools, you understand this in some way in the draft law on "Amendments to the Education Act". But here the problem is as big as it is, and like the draft law on Amendments to Education Law, there is nothing here with anyone. And don’t deceive yourself and deceive us all that everything has been said is that society has been heard (Interior: “Time!” ), non-governmental organisations were heard. I'm sorry, it's not done. That is what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U224	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U225	Dear colleagues, We are really calling for a coalition to have a qualitative debate. We call on the coalition to listen to our explanations on what you have supported at first reading. Because you are probably simply not aware of what you are voting on. That is why what we are doing is very diligently explaining to you that you are now and again, and are once again on the old ravens. The hope that we have is that during this year you will come to your mind (if you are still in the government) and will not touch these support, you will not receive these benefits and payments from the disabled assistant. You'll just get it back. If you have enough mind, the public will teach you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U226	I closed the debate. The debate is over, too. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U227	Proposal 6 has not been endorsed by the Commission. ( Subtotal: “Why? ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U228	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Members Stepanenko, Scrapie, Liepaja, Gobzem and Schmidt's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 32, against - 54, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U229	I invite you to support the second reading of the draft law on amendments to the law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U230	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 55, for - 31, for - 1. The law is passed. Time to break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name for Maria Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, to report on the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U231	Has not registered: Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla, Aldis Blumbergs, Boriss Cilevičs, Ilmars Dūritis, Inese Ikstena, Andrejs Klementjevs (Interface: “Here!” ), Ivan Clementyev... Andrej Clementyev... And, Ivan Clementyev, Armands Krauze, Evia Papule.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U232	Thank you. Interruption until 13.15 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U233	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. Members Latkovskis, Iesalnieks, Kols, Pucens and Bondars are asking to declare a break at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on November 13 of this year from 2.30 p.m. to 9 a.m. on November 15 of this year. Do Members have objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Who have reservations? So there are objections. Please call me! We will vote for the adjournment of the extraordinary meeting of 13 November this year from 20.30 a.m. to 9 a.m. on 15 November this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. So we're still working on the bill. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Land Commissions”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U234	Colleagues! No proposals have been received in the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Commissions”. Please support the second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U235	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Land Commissions”” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendment to the law on the completion of land reform in rural areas’, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Depp. Mr Bondar: 'I can go on behalf of my colleague?' ) On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U236	Colleagues! We work with the law “Amendment to the law on the completion of land reform in rural areas”, second reading. The budget and financial (tax) commission has been examined. No proposals have been received. Request to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U237	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendment to the law on the completion of land reform in rural areas" in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U238	Thus, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”. Six proposals have been received. 1. - the proposal from Member Lochmele-Lunova. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U239	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U240	Hello, colleagues! My proposal is not to decouple officials from the institutions of the Ministry of the Interior system and from the administration of prison places with special service grades for one hour on so-called home watch. For my part, I would like to point out that the Ministry of the Interior was the only ministry that really understood what it was talking about, and really tried, well... maintain and provide, at least in 2020, adequate remuneration for "home care" for its staff, say this in the current situation. What is it - “home-on-call”? This means that an employee, a police officer, a jailer, is not in his job, he is as if at home, as if with the family, but at the same time he cannot travel anywhere with that family, with the children. He has to stay at home. Not even... Well, let's say, employees usually say that - as if in slippers, but they have to be ready at any time to change their slippers to their service form and go because of some extraordinary situation... when he is needed in the workplace. By subtracting this hour rate from the minimum monthly salary, next year the staff of the Ministry of the Interior have even a small increase in the salary, but by subtracting this rate from the minimum monthly salary, in 2021 these employees will be for one hour - imagine! - less than two cents of remuneration than it would have been if that rate remained attached to the minimum monthly salary. As if it's a little thing, but, you know, there's a saying that God is in little things, but Satan in details. On the one hand, it's a trifle, but on the other, if we look at it as part of a common system... as a part, it shows that there is, however, an attempt by this government to immerse itself also at the expense of the Ministry of the Interior and the staff of prisons. I thank the Ministry of the Interior for you really raised the salary for the investigators this year - finally! This is indeed a success. But I would like to point out that the Interior is still...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U241	The speaking time is over! I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission... Is that so? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “ Okay. I could combine it with another minute?” ) The debate is closed. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U242	Yeah. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has not supported proposal 1. ( Subtotal: “Why? ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U243	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal tabled by Member Lochmele-Lunova! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -24, against -54, refrains - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U244	Members Stepanenko, Sprūde, Liepaja, Gobzem and Schmidt have submitted 2nd proposal. It is not supported by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U245	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U246	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this issue has not been addressed in the Cabinet because it is the competence of the Saeima. And it was seen in the Saeima at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, where it was not supported. Today, we have heard many times from various colleagues that we have limited financial opportunities and need to think about various austerity measures, and what you have done so far in this budget and in accompanying draft laws is to take various austerity measures in the social sphere. But you have also forgotten about yourself, honourable colleagues, especially - especially! - taking into account your liability, 46 members of the coalition, for the non-performance of the law on medical salaries. And these 46 coalition Members include several commission leaders, including those who had prepared this bill. The heads of those commissions... Mr Bondara, who rejected various proposals with sources for raising medical fees. That's why I think... and I agree with my colleagues that you, honourable colleagues receiving these supplementary allowances, could give up them for a number of reasons. One of the reasons is what I have just mentioned. So you have to take responsibility for what you have allowed, what you have done. You don't deserve a bonus, Mr Bondar and everyone else! You may want to say that you need these extra premiums because you work a lot, more than the rest of the Members, but it is not true, you are provided with both support staff and with road transport, and all your wishes, all your needs... These functions, which are related to the performance of additional duties, are provided by the state budget and you do not need additional premiums. Dear colleagues, I call on you to support this proposal, especially in view of the fact that there are very often different news in the public space about the premium champions who collect these bonuses. Several, two, three... And then those amounts are cosmic. And especially for doctors to read these messages, I think it will really not be pleasant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U247	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U248	Of course, Members must be remunerated and Members would also be entitled to a premium if they had done what the voters have promised. That would be logical and understandable. But what I don't understand... And I've been talking about it many times from the pub... And I think it's not acceptable, well, in such a logical practice that... Now I'm just... I can give examples. And there's no one here... Despite the fact that it's somewhere... There may be a personal conflict for us, but it's not because... I want to name a neighbor's example. The neighbor actually lives seven minutes away from the Saeima, and he receives transport compensation of 139 euros. So he, a poor man, needs 139 euros from home to the Saeima. He is at the same time the head of the commission for which he receives a premium. At the same time, he's a faction, I think... That's the deputy... At least it used to be, if not thrown out... for which he receives a premium. The political group still has vehicles, commissions, commission managers have collateral, and in addition he receives individual compensation. It's like an example that... Something really right in that system is not there. I have to name it for the fifth time, but it is also a very good, simply an example. Now, there cannot be a situation where Mr Bhutan from the UKP, who receives his salary as Parliamentary Secretary at the Ministry of Transport, because there is a greater amount than in the Saeima, demands this transport compensation of EUR 40. Now it's... For a Member, this EUR 40 does not mean anything, but for a medical or pensioner, EUR 40 can mean a lot. Or, for example, Mrs Muižniece, who receives a higher salary than that of a member of the Saeima in the Ministry of Education and Science as Parliamentary Secretary. She also demands a charge for petrol. Or Mr. Budrik from the BIP... where the people write to the Member of the Saeima that Mr. Budriķis has not actually lived in Liepaja for years. He shows that he seems to be living in Liepaja, so he needs to rent compensation in Riga. The Liepājas say that it is not really true. Mr Kirštein, who lives close to me, or Mr Blumberg - they are demanding transport compensation. I have shown that you can come from the nearby Pärja without compensation for transport. These are small details, but in these little ones also in the islands... But the village is the best example. ( The utterance: “Time! ”) ) The neighbourhood is the best example. Excuse me? ( The utterance: “Time! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U249	The debate is over. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U250	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U251	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U252	Thus, honourable colleagues receive allowances from political leaders and vice-chairmen, commission heads, secretaries and vice-chairmen, sub-committee heads and secretaries. And this amount of bonuses, which has been set in the common number of Saeima, is so... EUR 54 432 each month, these allowances will be paid to the taxpayer, after the Members' salaries have been raised, they will be EUR 63 322 per month. In the year, colleagues, this amount is EUR 759 864. These are almost 760 thousand euros that will be paid for your extra... The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U253	The debate is over. The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U254	At the same time, however, I also want to say honestly to the public: I personally believe that Members must have high wages. At the same time, I believe that we do not need 100 Members. Here, too, it has been shown that there can actually be robots that press the buttons. We should objectively have half the smaller parliaments. We should not have its compensation, its premiums and everything else. Just honestly set one big salary so you don't have to read it there... in addition to their posts, their additional compensation. It would be an open, fair system that would show... And I believe, although it may be unpopular to say so, that the Saeima Members need a great deal of pay to motivate the wiser rather than the weaker to start on the parliament, because when the weaker ones go in and in, they stick to those chairs and vote the way the head office puts them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U255	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U256	Yeah. Therefore, proposal 2 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U257	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Members Stepanenko, Scrapie, Liepaja, Gobzem and Schmidt's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 8, against - 56, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U258	Members Stepanenko, Sprūde, Liepiņa, Gobzem and Schmidt have submitted 3 proposals. The budget and financial (tax) commission is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U259	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U260	Dear colleagues, We call for a member of the Cabinet of Ministers, who replaces colleagues, this amount of premiums... Perhaps you, the honored society, did not know that replacing each other, members of the Cabinet received bonuses. The amount of this allowance would be comparable to the standard amount of the allowance for officials... not 50 per cent of the monthly salary of the Minister, but 30 per cent. We're just calling for this amount to be reduced because... as my colleague, Mr Dombrovskis, also said at the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission (he had experience in working in the Cabinet)... So this replacement, this replacement of colleagues, is often only about signing different papers. And, as we also know from recent history, so Mr. Pavilut... when he also signed certain documents in the Cabinet, he did not know what he was actually signing. He said that when he gave him something, he also signed. So, colleagues, given that this task does not involve a very large and hard job, it would only be fair if this bonus were not higher than that of everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U261	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U262	On this point, I would like to say, like Members of the Saeima... I, too, think... and that is what I said before the elections, and that is what I believe now... I believe that ministers must get... conceptually must receive... Perhaps not at a time when they do not comply with the law (it would not be right), but conceptually much more should be received to become ministers, let's say, the most serious minds of Latvia - people who really can raise Latvia. And with such a competitive salary, although it may seem great to a daily person, it cannot be done... But there is one another's problem. We certainly do not need 13 ministers and Prime Ministers. Because it does not improve anything to us, as we see, in the country, but makes things worse. We need a small public administration. And we need to reduce - we need to reduce significantly! - both the number of ministers and the number of ministries. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction Article 56 (c) of CRR In reality, in the nation you are already called kapi.lv... Forgive me, but that is what you really call it. You promised to reduce that public administration. At a reduced public administration, it would be only objective if the Prime Minister had a salary of 10... 15 thousand euros. And I'm not afraid to talk about it from the pub, but... We wouldn't have a premiere who... who doesn't know the budget like Karin. We might be a good, really financial, man who has proved himself in life, not one who's had a whole career to do with what Dad has bestowed or where he has a wife... What kind of offshore business they have done. That's why... That's why... and then you shouldn't, say, in situations like this... For example, you shouldn't... For example, as Mrs. Viņķele... at the expense of the State... to take a break to New York, combine it with as if a conference where three minutes of broken English talk and then live there for a week... in order to get back there for public money... And then this... It's a small detail... then it would simply be fair - again big, yes, big salary, six ministers together with the Prime Minister, and then there is something to ask, not like now... You're already running your own deadlock, there you're... not by lingering, but by reading its premiums from one place to another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U263	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U264	Dear colleagues, I... I have to say, I was rather surprised to see this norm. Such a rule, if not mistaken, did not exist at the time when I was working in the government. And here you... Once again, to all those who do not understand what this is about, you need to understand that when one minister replaces another minister, he does not have any precise responsibilities. All that means is that the Minister has not one package of documents per day to be signed, but two packages of documents per day to be signed. That's one. Second. Well, that's... I can then ironically note that this provision is such a monetary supplement to the Ministers of New Unity. Because, well, guess who is the minister who travels the most and who needs to be replaced most often? This is, of course, a foreign minister who has long been a monopoly on Unity and, since ministers are usually replaced by ministers from one party, of course other ministers from the New Unity receive such a wage supplement. Well, I think that this idea of increasing the remuneration of ministers from one party in such a half-hit way - it is not, colleagues, a very good idea. If you believe that ministers' salaries should increase, then it is better to do so openly. And I think it's... It's really good to think about why there's such, to put it mildly, inconceivable that, for example... Let's get the Ministry of Economics. So the minister's salary will be about... How much? About 3 thousand euros per hand. Then under the supervision of the Minister there are two institutions, which are the well-known Latvian Investment and Development Agency, which is in fact the main one responsible for attracting foreign investment... As you are well aware, if I now remember correctly the figures, the head of LIAA “on paper” receives 2 000 euros. So the person responsible for attracting foreign investment receives two thousand euros on paper. He runs a collective that is as large as the whole Ministry of Economics. At the same time, there is another institution - called Reverta - dealing with the sale of real estate left by Parex banka. The head of the management board of this institution receives, if I remember correctly, now no less than EUR 10 000 per month. Colleagues, don't you think that's weird? So maybe you do something better in this regard! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U265	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U266	Yes, colleagues, I am also surprised by this proposal, and thank my colleagues for raising this issue. In this regard, I would like to talk about a system of unitary remuneration in our country. We are still waiting for this draft law to reach the committee responsible. I would like to say that, for more than five years now, it has been promised that this will be the case. We know about the State Secretaries: in order to ensure proper remuneration, different ways of doing this are invented, and the State Audit Office has not once pointed out that this is not the normal order. But - I understand the other side as well - I believe that, however, state secretaries must have proper remuneration so that they have the highest possible qualifications. Ministers must also have high wages, so that the best, most powerful people work in these positions, and ministers must also set an example for the others. Unfortunately, this is a pretty big black behind a nail, if such a system exists. I hope that the uniform remuneration law will end up in the Saeima, the Prime Minister will press the Head of the State Chancellery to finally do so, because for now... Well, there are a lot of presentations seen - how beautiful and good it will be and how all this will happen - but we have not come to a real draft law. There are many problems there. I would like to say that this problem of ministerial pay - that the minister is compensated... forgive for replacing another minister - many of us know there are individual cases, and these are very, very individual cases. And I would like to say a word here to the Minister of the former Government, Rihard Kozlovskis, who really also worked and replaced another minister, and at a very difficult time. And I would understand the existence of such a norm. But that's not right. It would be right if we were, by nature, also to state openly how much the minister should get, not hide behind the fact that the salary is such, but here, where more bonuses are received, which can form half of the wage. The single-remuneration law must do so. I do not have any hope that you will support this proposal today, just as you have not supported the previous proposals that you have rejected, but I call on you to remember this. And when the uniform remuneration law is seen, go back to this issue and consider it, and support normal remuneration for ministers - to put it in place without any schemes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U267	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U268	I'll do it again. The system that has to be collected from day money, from work in one post, from the other commission, the third is the wrong system of substance. It does not contribute to healthy development of the country. We need to make a fair statement to the public: yes, ministers and Members must receive a great deal of remuneration objectively! But right now, maybe it would be... This amount of pay and the increase in amount should be attracted - symbolically, it should be attracted! - increase in medical wages. That would be fair, and it would be right and symbolic today, but conceptually in the long term it would be much better if the whole society knew that there was one particular salary, which is large. And, as I said, the Prime Minister or Ministers in the future might be - and they should be! - about 10 or 15 thousand euros.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U269	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U270	Colleagues! Perhaps I know how salt to draw your attention now. Remember, fictitious consultants. No, no? KUP! Favorite consultants. Now think, falsifying ministers! Think about what will happen if, from “Nothing personal” or any of those investigating journalists, they ask the ministers who are replacing another minister: “What exactly did you do when you replaced that minister? Have you really fulfilled those direct responsibilities?’ Think about it! I'll give it to each one of you! ( Insight: “I was thinking! ” ) You will not be able to answer such questions. And then it has only one name - "False Ministers". Because it is absolutely clear that those replacement ministers do not, by their very nature, fulfil their direct responsibilities. Therefore, it is better to return at least to the previous system. All right, we need to sign another package of documents - sign! But you don't have to pretend it's some kind of... Indeed, the additional work for which the supplement of 50 per cent is due.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U271	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U272	Dear colleagues, Several ministers, several members of the Cabinet of Ministers, are currently sitting in the hall, and they were unable to explain why they would need a higher premium only for signing draft laws and other documents (Dep. Adamson: “It’s a hard job!” ), instead of your colleagues. We invite you to come... Thank you for being here today, but come, please, and explain what is the reason why you need more funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U273	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U274	In order to reduce the amount of maintenance, the Government proposes to determine the amount of maintenance upon the recommendation of the Minister of Justice, taking into account the economic situation of the state and possibilities of the state budget. So why does the government not want to come up with a similar offer, also assessing the respective performance in the relevant departments of the country's economic and economic development, determining including and freeing up fiscal space? But what is our performance this year? Officers voluntarily leaving the FMC have received compensation. One official 86 400 euros, the other 72 960 euros. Now “Latvian Railway”, a state-owned company. In the compensation of the official, close to a quarter of a million were received. As a result of the actions of the ruling coalition politicians, almost half a million have been paid to officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for remuneration in bonuses. Let us now look at Latvia's performance in implementing public administration reform and how the European Commission appreciates it. It turns out that Latvia has made some progress in improving public administration. The only achievement is the adoption of the Anxiety Act. There is limited progress in improving the accountability and effectiveness of the public administration review. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question do not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. At the same time, 10 schools are closed in Latvia. That's great! Now there are only 198 603 legal entities in Latvia - taxpayers. But the number of employees in public administration is 200 086. Of which 223 thousand - in general government sector and 63 thousand - in various foundations, societies and foundations. There is a obvious devious mechanism for the reallocation of taxpayers' funds, which clearly shows that the government is not able to shape its financial flows to the country on the basis of synergies and responsibilities before society as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U275	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U276	It would probably be logical for any of the existing ministers to climb into the tributary and speak out on this proposal, but it is difficult. You can't talk about yourself. But I have the experience of working in the government, and that is why I also want to say that I cannot support this proposal at this time, because I know that there are cases where really ministers are replacing other colleagues during a long absence and are, in fact, working very hard. Mr Kozlovskis has already been mentioned, who has long served as a Minister of Transport and dealt with very difficult issues. The Prime Minister replaced the Health Ministers, and worked for a long time and in essence, taking full responsibility for implementing the reforms. These are just two examples of many other cases. I understand that this is an opportunity to punish those ministers again, but I do not think that we need to do that at the moment. On the contrary, they should be motivated to work more, more diligently, harder so that we can expect a result.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U277	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U278	Therefore, proposal 3 was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U279	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Members Stepanenko, Scrapie, Liepaja, Gobzem and Schmidt's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U280	Members Stepanenko, Sprūde, Liepiņa, Gobzem and Schmidt have submitted their fourth proposal. The budget commission is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U281	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the proposal submitted by Members Stepanenko, Sprūde, Liepaja, Gobzem and Schmidt. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 8, for - 52, for - 13. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U282	Members Dzintars, Indricsone, Izalnieks, Jansons and Money have tabled the 5th proposal. The budget and financial (tax) commission is not supported. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U283	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U284	Colleagues! Well, here the question is for yourself. For me, the idea for myself is that if you owe me, you can't go on a trip. And that's it. There is, I think, solidarity, both with the promises made to the medical profession... I think... I agree with the National Alliance's idea of this... And if this... from 1 January 2020 this increase for Members and Ministers (pp.m., Ministers!) and other officials are attached to this average wage in the country... I support this proposal, and I think that Members and my fellow Members... I hope that the groups have a free vote in favour of this. I hope the SAVE will also take part and not wear your cards out... I recommend that we support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U285	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U286	Dear Society! Well, to make you understand: this is an absolutely populist, two-space proposal. (Laughter) But don't laugh, listen to the end. In particular, the village is talking about solidarity, but the fact that from the second end of the park gets EUR 139 for petrol... He needs to go for seven minutes, but EUR 139 per month he's getting... Plus he gets bonuses as leader, plus he gets party financing... One million... where they will pay those salaries in the same way. And then they state: “We will freeze the wage supplement! We're going to freeze! How we show solidarity with the medical community!’ But a couple of further votes: let's take a million, which we will split into silence... Just like that, quietly, all these bonuses are always in place, so they don't somehow notice, see, and like... That's why it's double-moral... a dual offer... Just the coalition that laughed... you, BCP, laughed the best if... You laughed and you voted against your bonus waiver. Solidarityists are here! I'm sorry... It's already a double moratorium and a dual dull. Here I invite you not to give up this premium, but all as one... as I promised from the pub, promise all of you that you will give each of this bonus to a specific nurse! By giving this supplement to a particular nurse, you will do much more good than making this populist move. You better do it, and it will be a much more effective tool. And if we vote for the bonus... not for a premium, but this increase in pay for the following year, as I said... And I call again on the Saeima Administration to give this supplement to a particular nurse and to inform me of the name of this particular nurse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U287	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U288	Dear colleagues, Independent Members are absolutely not afraid of freezing salaries. It is not difficult for us to support your conscience's proposal. You think that it will be easier for you to be around your heart if you cut off this wage supplement for yourself and thus solve the problem that you yourself - yourself! - You've created it, but it won't be. Yes, the fact that you will cut the Members' salary allowance to yourself until 13. At the end of the Saeima - it will not solve the problem of medical salaries in any case, and it will not make you fairer, because, as my colleague said, you are going to support the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties), where it is not stipulated that you will not be allowed to receive a salary for party leadership, for acting in a party. The regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers on how this money will be used for the parties, even more so. It's just getting it. It is possible that something will be recorded there, and that it will also probably remain at project level. But, colleagues, I just... I wonder about your duality, because last day almost half a night you fought for reducing the salary of disabled assistants. This was about untying their salary from the minimum monthly salary, and you were so keen to achieve it... You think that you can now say to your constituents by subtracting your monthly salary from the coefficient: “Well, we... You see, we're with you! We are solidaritying." In order for you to be able to show solidarity with all those who have hurt you in this budget, you should work without pay and pay for your right to be in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U289	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U290	Well, colleagues, this question... it certainly attracts attention, and I think this is the only question, I would say, since yesterday, the outcome of which none of the Members can be sure, with which this vote will then end. It's still not clear to anyone... Mr. Neighbours called for a vote after... how you want to, as you think, but what I would like to say is sad that they are still the same... the same speakers still talk about this important proposal, but none of the applicants. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “The Author!” ) Could really be in the author's studio! Next, the proposer would argue why such a proposal has been tabled... how nothing in this proposal calls for a debate. It calls for the debate directly on the part of the applicants to explain their motivation. We've read in the press, but today really comes from this platform to explain... In my opinion, such a proposal will not be enough. Hard enough to justify all those you have already voted in these two days, all those social programmes that you have already covered and what you are going to do. I think, too, if we look at the doctors... Medicals need a salary supplement. Medicals need a salary supplement! And the fact that someone is leaning tears, that he does not have a salary supplement, I think no Latvian medicine will improve the cum. Solidarity? Yeah, but is that enough? Does solidarity only mean this proposal? Again. Colleagues, I really want the authors to come up with this proposal, in the debate, to explain what the benefits of this society will be and how much you will solve the medical problems and all the social problems that you yourself have already created over two days in describing social programmes. Will that really be enough? Colleagues, please, with regard to the freezing of wages, I think ministers should also consider whether they should join this category that is being talked about here.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U291	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U292	Dear colleagues, particularly the authors of this proposal! Since you do not plan, I see, come and justify this proposal, I can say that, in my view, it is your proposal that shows your cowardice. Yes, Mr. Amber, for all your political groups and your cowardice. You have the courage to fulfill your... not just a promise, but a law on which each of you has voted - an increase in medical fees? ( Internouncing call.) You are now trying to distract attention from not complying with this law by saying: “Oh, we are now proposing to all to freeze the wage!” Do you think the medicine will be warm or cold? It's a coward! Mr. Amber! Come and justify why you will not live up to this law. You want to show courage in supporting the increase in medical pay?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U293	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U294	Once again, I call on the public to listen in particular - listen in particular! This proposal is intended to conceal the fact that, from the funding of the parties, which will have a seven-fold increase, the National Association will repay its salaries to itself. That is why, in this particular case, such a proposal is populist - for this reason. If all Members who vote in favour of a seven-fold increase in party funding, they will be fined at least one tenth of that party's funding (10 percent - for medical practitioners!) Then we could believe that this is a good will. At the moment, it is only populism to deceive the cheap voters, nothing more.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U295	Name to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U296	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, I would like to ask the authors and ask a question that at least I have no answer. As far as I can see, this will affect members of the Saeima who receive remuneration from the Saeima's budget. But we have some Members who are the parliamentary secretaries of the ministries who receive remuneration from the ministry. And so, as far as I understand, if the amendment is adopted in such a way, it will mean that the other Members will be paid frozen, but those Members who receive remuneration as Parliamentary secretaries will get an increase. I would therefore like to hear from the authors how they look at the fact that they want to divide Members into "good" and "bad" in this way. Those who... part... For example, Mr Dūritis receives remuneration from the Saeima budget as Parliamentary Secretary, Mr Bhutan receives from the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U297	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U298	I agree with Artus Neimins that this is every individual story. Each of us can donate his or her reward or otherwise shift to where he wants – to children, “Ulubelei”, something else. Because if this vote is positive, it will mean that this money will be redeployed by a coalition. As they re-allocate it, we see this budget being adopted. And what's interesting when it's talking and it's going to be about party finances? Then it is said that it is necessary to release the parties from cartels, from donors, depending. You know what this vote shows? The cartel has started to pay for the heads, not for the lots!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U299	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U300	Colleagues! Clearly, this proposal is populist - one with which one coalition partner wants to look better than the other four. But I'm going to support it because it's just a little bit of an emotional balance that you've already learned to give up the increase in maintenance for children... To foster families, helpers of disabled people, sportsmen, I could mention more and more that we have already discussed. The only advice is to put this bill next time, at the very end of the budget review. Because then with such a proposal you, like Pontius Pilate, after all, as has already been mentioned here, could wash your hands sniffly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U301	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U302	Like many other proposals, it is a wonderful proposal, but not completely thought out. This proposal should be extended to all categories... which have been paid on the relevant terms and conditions, starting with the President of Latvia. One point. Two points. Since this money will unfortunately not save either doctors or educators in general, nor will it help to comply with the rule of law that exists but is not fulfilled... It seems that there should be every Member here, every person subject to this system, in the event of a freezing of the savings, dedicated to a particular teacher or a specific medical practitioner. Then people will feel it, and then it will be a concrete job. Not as it is proposed today. It looks and sounds like, forgive me how foolishness and spit people in the face.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U303	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U304	The Budget Commission has not supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U305	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - the proposal tabled by Members Dzintara, Indicicenes, Izalnieks, Jansons and Money! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 54, for - 4, for - 10. The proposal is supported. Dear colleagues, Members Papaule, Agešins, Rubiks, Pimenovs, Švecova and others are asked to read the result of the vote on the proposal of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Remuneration of Officials of State and Local Authorities” presented by Members Dzintars, Indricsson and others. Do Members have objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Members have reservations. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the results of the vote on the proposal 5 of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, no vote is taken.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U306	So six. - the proposal from Member Svekov. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U307	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U308	The political elites ruling on 19 October 2018... Minister... Prime Ministers... signed the invitation offered by the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry to define the goals that “Latvia is a place where talent gathers. A smart nation will find the best solutions, regardless of various factors...’. I have a question. With a social budget that is now... which is being discussed... Is it possible that Latvia will really be the place where talents come together? If we look at the evaluation of the Reconnaissance Coordination Centre, which concerns the mid-term evaluation of the Latvian National Development Plan 2020, then we see that the mid-term evaluation of the indicator of 19 percent of the NAP's strategic objectives has been found unsatisfactory. Twenty percent stagnant. In 2018, in the OECD assessment of best regulation in European Union countries, Latvia was ranked in the performance of initial assessment of the impact of low regulation and policy impact. This reflects the low quality of work both by politicians and officials and ministers. According to the European Commission report, there is still a high level of inequality in Latvia and... performance with regard to social performance indicators... and that Europe's social performance on the basis of the pillar of rights... is very uneven. The proportion of people at risk of poverty is high, especially among vulnerable groups. The wealth of Latvian households lies in the smallest euro area, but the wage level in the public sector is higher than in the private sector. The Transparency Coordination Centre has an annual budget of 1.5 million. Staff costs of the public share manager Possessor (Privatisation Agency) – 1.4 million per year. Saeima in the Analyst Service - 354 thousand euros per year. The performance of the public administration. As I said, out of the 20 small institutions that should have been abolished, only one (adding) has been removed, maintaining both funding and people. My proposal is to state that the Cabinet of Ministers shall submit to the Saeima by 1 March 2020 a draft law on the improvement of the system of remuneration of civil servants and employees of state and municipal institutions, setting specific criteria for the increase of the monthly salary of civil servants only if the amount of gross domestic product increases (interim: “Time!” ) per capita... ( Not to be heard.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U309	It's over. Thank you, speaking time is over. The speaking time is over. Name of Member Inga Goldberg. ( Interface: “Inga will speak against”?) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U310	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! I would like to inform you that the Commission of State Administration and Local Government looked at this draft law, failed... The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has dealt with this much more quickly. I think it is also right, because it does not really apply to the budget package. Why? I would also like to quote from the person responsible at the State Chancellery that “there was a long process of harmonisation regarding the establishment of the Director of State Data Inspection in the Law on Salary... and that ‘the only convincing argument of the Ministry of Justice was that the Head of Data State Inspection should ensure the principle of independence’. It is very difficult to imagine what criteria this could be based on. And, of course, by raising or... there must be certain criteria laid down in the Law on the Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions. The proposed deadline is, in my opinion, very ambitious, but feasible, all the more so because, within the framework of administrative territorial reform, this law will also have to be reviewed in the light of the opinions of the State Audit Office (even if for example, on the payment of Members in local governments). Therefore, the information provided by the State Chancellery that this draft law... the new law was to be declared on October 31, probably not true. Please support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U311	Name to Member Uldis Budric.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U312	Hello, colleagues! I'm very brief. This proposal is only about transitional provisions... Supplementing to develop a new concept for the State Chancellery. I would also like to remind the members of the Commission that the Director of the State Chancellery, Mr Citskovsky, has promised to present the concept of the new remuneration law by the end of the year. Therefore, this is a double rule. Please vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U313	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U314	Dear colleagues, If you do not support this proposal, it will mean that you will still, despite your hypocritical vote and the proposal to reduce your own wages... you can now be happy, put the voting list on social networks and show each other... Your activities will still not bring any benefits to society, because medical wages, you think, can only grow if GDP is growing. Well, that's from your logic, because you said that GDP forecasts are not therefore justified by this draft budget, so you depart from the law. But ministerial wages - ministerial salaries! - It's gonna grow. And all the rest of the wages that are incorporated into this bill will grow. But it would really be fair to say: if government action comes... and the work of the Saeima has a positive impact on GDP, only then, but also on ministers, could it be possible to make these wages grow in a fair way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U315	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U316	Dear colleagues, This bill really has no place in the budget package, because from budgetary matters, one official is mentioned here, which should stabilise the salary. It is true that this draft law appeared at all in a time of crisis, when there was a need to save. Today's need for it comes back, because we cannot miss all the holes, so we need to think about how to build a normal, civilised payment system in the public sector, for which a debate has really been launched at the State Registry and work has been started. Therefore, it would be logical that this draft law should not be seen at all in the budget package, but we would return to a new law... a draft law that could really answer questions, essential questions, and where we should not get caught up with such ridiculous and populist steps as are allowed by the National Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U317	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U318	We have been waiting for the common draft remuneration law in the Saeima for years. I think that, in support of this proposal, we would just draw close to it... The Saeima would task indeed the National Chancellery to receive and refer the matter to the commission responsible. This has not been possible for all previous governments. This is always a question at conciliation meetings. And in the end, like many other draft laws, it will come to the Saeima as a brother, because quite simply it will not be agreed between different institutions, and the Saeima will have to develop it from scratch. This is not the first case, nor is it the last case. It's been late... And before... The Cabinet of Ministers has taken such a course that the issues to be discussed in the final decision of the Saeima are quite simple to perform, perform, perform, and in the end... such a semi-finished product. Colleagues, the purpose of this proposal is to bring this draft law to the Saeima as soon as possible. In the light of the previous vote and today's debate on this bill, I think it would be right if the National Chancellery... if we support this proposal and the National Chancellery takes into account all the debates that have taken place today from this tribunal... from members of the coalition and from members of the opposition, focusing on where the single remuneration system should be improved. And, in my opinion, it was also necessary to take into account the votes on Members' salaries and this vote... must be equal... the same as everyone... Parliamentary secretaries should also be part of the single remuneration system with the other Members of the Saeima. Today, some voted easily... We will see what further action they will take to join the same family with all the other Members of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U319	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U320	Hello, Members! Members' salaries - this is not the only opportunity for us to obtain some additional funds; we should certainly also look at this collective application, which has been submitted by more than 10 000 people, specifically about the audit of the State Audit Office in the Saeima. I'm sorry... I would also like to say this publicly: as the chairman of the Commission, I have repeatedly, repeatedly, written to the Bureau of Legal Affairs, but this process is not progressing either, it is not progressing. So this would be another way of cutting expenditure in our home. I would also like to comment on a small statement by Janis Citskovskas, the Director of the State Chancellery, which he has made in the public space: "At the State Chancellery, work is currently being carried out on the regularisation of remuneration regulations and internal processes for the employees of public institutions, while next year it is planned to identify those public sectors and institutions with low levels of remuneration." I have heard this expression several times. And we have also invited Janis Citskovskis to the Commission. We hear it and we hear it all the time. We have low wages in the same way as doctors... There's a lot... and we would like to raise, but we have the problem that it is not really talking about - we have a lot of people and officials who, working as much as two or three public works, receive hundreds of thousands of salaries, even 200,000. As an example, I can mention even the Liepaja Special Economic Zone, which currently has nine board members. For example, there is from LIAA and the same Ministry of Transport. And they take part in about one board meeting in one month or one and a half months, and each for such a trip to Jurmala receives on average 5 thousand euros. Thus, in a year, they receive from 40 to 60 thousand simply for going to this board meeting. The same is true with the Bank of Latvia, where more than 220,000 board member earns. These are the categories that we are not talking about. And I'm so sorry that in my commission too... I had called Janis Langi from the “Latvian Railways” Council to explain these compensations for board members, and even the Minister of Transport could not explain how much has been paid and what compensations were made. Even the Public Expenditure and Audit Commission is denied and denied to know how much of the state's losses have been incurred. We can only say now that it could be about 550... 500 thousand. Could I ask you more time?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U321	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U322	The next thing that we will definitely be working on in the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit, and what we have already started now... I have written a letter to Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš asking him to assess the usefulness of the Reconnaissor Coordination Centre, because now... From 800,000... A million 300 are already required. In the Commission, we had the opportunity to make sure that, unfortunately, we did not fulfil the objectives and tasks originally set out when establishing this institution. Therefore, we will wait for the letter and follow further actions, but definitely next week, Tuesday, we will pay attention to the State Audit Office's 2017 report on these very small useless institutions, which have been established in public administration institutions and... directly in the ministries. Ministers should pay attention to this, and we will also ask for it. An example of this audit for 2017 is that in 18 small institutions, such as the Latvian Institute, the Latvian Sports Museum, Studies and Science Administration, the total budget was 107 million. These institutions are to be dissolved or reorganized immediately, and this money can be saved even if... to pay the doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U323	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U324	Yeah. Therefore, Proposal No 6 was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U325	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - the proposal tabled by Member Svekova! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U326	I invite you to support the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U327	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to the Mediation Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U328	In the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, the draft law “Amendments to the Mediation Law” was reviewed for the second, final, reading. No proposals were received for the second reading. The Commission supported the draft law as a whole. I therefore ask for your vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U329	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Mediation Law” at second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Rihards Kozlovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U330	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax”. A total of 20 proposals have been received. 1. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U331	Members support... (Interface: Vote!) ) I wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal submitted by the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 58, for - no, for - 18. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U332	2. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce. Supported by the Commission. (Interface: Vote!) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U333	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal submitted by the Minister for the Protection of the Environment and Regional Development! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 60, for - no, for - 19. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U334	3. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U335	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U336	Colleagues, this proposal is rather technical, but it may also have a positive impact on public revenue. It's about tires again. We have already had a little discussion about it in taxes and duties. I mentioned to you statistics that there are approximately 105 thousand tons of tyres in Latvia, and a large part of them - 39 percent have been imported but not officially implemented. 34 percent have been officially completed but not collected tyres, and a further 27 percent come from imports of vehicles, where tyres are also imported at the same time. Statistics show that 7 to 8 thousand tons of tyres are imported into Latvia every year, for which no natural resource tax is actually paid. And if you don't pay the natural resource tax in a situation where the natural resource tax is less than... is generally much higher than the cost of management and there is great competition among the operators, which has led to price dumping, we come to the fact that companies avoid managing these tyres in different ways and we have full forests... and various illegal loading places for tyres are filled with tyre mountains. Our proposal, by its very nature, provides that the natural resource tax that is currently being paid for the car does not include tyres. The cost of importing tyres should be set at a much higher level so that it is sufficient to maintain a further process, to collect the tyres, and to process them without polluting the environment. This proposal was also presented in the budget process last year, when the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development promised that it would come with a wide package of measures to arrange tyre management. Unfortunately, the situation has not improved substantially, and we are therefore resubmitting this proposal so that you can assess and take into account that it could - and we are showing - be about 2.6 million... a positive impact on budget revenue.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U337	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U338	Mr. Pouce, hello! We have finally come to you as well. And this question, in my opinion, is absolutely justified... Mrs. Reizniece-Ozola has already named the figures. Of the total amount - from 105 thousand tonnes - 7 to 8 thousand tonnes are currently not in any "radio" accounts at all. No fee shall be paid for this. We see what tyre mountains are formed here in Riga. I think it's like... Whereas, already, the safety problem with individual tyre dumpers and laid roads... padding with simple tires. The season is changing. We can see it... Any of us can be sure of this. I think this is a much more topical question than the question of a bottle deposit. Colleagues, please address this with greater seriousness. We have already been offering some kind of solution for the second year - unlike the fact that the Minister responsible has done virtually nothing in this area in order to sort it out in some way, to improve it. One official has been dismissed, another official has been appointed, but nothing has changed in substance. And this proposal has already been rejected for the second year without debate. So, colleagues, how else can I tell you? Tyres must be loaded to the Saeima to listen to you, understand?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We have to go, we got to film, we got to show it. You don't see that situation yourself? Do you not see that the tyre mountains are located in the center of Riga? About this whole system... It's completely pointless... Any proposal aimed at improving this... this completely disordered system... Here are the charters, apherists in this field. And we're just pretending to be okay. How many television stories have not been on these topics! We come from our group in some way... in any case not the majority, but at least the part! - to improve from it. Maybe it doesn't seem important to you today, but God doesn't give it, there's going to be some fire again! We remember that one illegal waste facility near Jurmala was set on fire. What a disaster! Let's imagine what will happen if any of these illegal tyre mountains that still exist in the center of Riga light up. People don't even think about paying the penalty, simply running the company into insolvency, establishing the next day a new one, getting new discounts, making tire mountains again. And we're doing absolutely nothing to sort this system out in some way. Colleagues! I invite you to come and explain. This is another proposal where... you have done nothing in the course of the year - nothing! - to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U339	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U340	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U341	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the proposal put forward by the Group of the Greens/Family Union! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U342	4. - the proposal by Mr Puce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Supported by the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U343	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the proposal submitted by the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 59, for - 7, for - 14. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U344	5. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce. Supported by the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U345	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - the proposal submitted by the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 58, for - no, for - 18. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U346	6. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U347	Members are in favour. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U348	7. - Green and Farmers...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U349	Well, you supported it! ( Milestones.) You supported it. Keep going! ( The utterances: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U350	7. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U351	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U352	Colleagues! This proposal is intended to return to the law the procedure that is currently in force, that 40 per cent of the natural resources tax is transferred to the general budget of the State, while 60 per cent is left in the municipal budget. Local governments have functions related to improving the environment, and currently the state simply changes this proportion in voluntarily, taking the majority into the state budget. But another interesting thing I want to draw your attention... There's another thing. In particular, the Greens and those who have spoken about the absence of Members' quotas in this budget could be heard. How will this money be spent in the state budget? While leaving money to the municipality, it is, of course, clear that this funding should be used mainly in areas related to the environment. But the government has decided that its money will be used for various environmental measures in 2020, but there will also be support for regional media, export of Latvian literature, NGO Foundation... It's still like that. But we are now listening to the regional development aid measure ‘adaptation and maintenance of infrastructure’, behind which the measure ‘to provide support for sport infrastructure development projects’. And then there is "an event of national identity, civil society, integration policy and nationality". What does it have to do with the environment? We can call it different, but by nature, colleagues, those who have experienced, understand that these are the most direct quotas for Members. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U353	The name of Member Janina Yalinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U354	Good afternoon, honourable colleagues and honourable colleagues! I have already spoken in the last sitting about amendments to the natural resources tax, about the need for municipalities to distribute and use this tax to organise nature protection measures... and in relation to... There has been an unfair redistribution of tax in respect of the municipalities on whose territory these landfills are located - this redistribution, which has been changed from 40 per cent to 60 per cent for the benefit of the country... and for disposal of waste, the municipalities have removed interest at all. The municipalities were previously able to use these funds for nature conservation measures. In the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, when asked why these interest rates were removed for disposal of waste to municipalities, the Ministry representative motivated it so that the municipalities had put the infrastructure in place. What does that mean - the municipalities have organised the infrastructure? This means that landfills are still located in the territory of these municipalities and municipalities must receive the appropriate interest for disposal. But we're not talking anywhere... Polygons are located in the territory of municipalities and people live around them, and we are not talking about the fact that these people are very uncomfortable about the value of real estate, because the value of real estate for these people who live in the vicinity of landfills has fallen sharply, because no one wants to buy homes that are adjacent to landfills. We are not talking much about this, but it is very, very important. I therefore call for support for the proposal of the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U355	Mr. Valains, would you have two minutes to break? In that case, it's time for a break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U356	Not registered: Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla, Boriss Cilevičs, Ilmars Dūritis, Inese Ikstena, Nikolai Kabanovs, Andris Kazinovskis... ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Zazinovskis is, Ivan Klementyev, Armands Krauze, Evija Papule, Ivans Ribakov (Interface: I am!) )... There's John Wucan... Yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U357	Interruption until 3 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U358	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can continue the Saeima sitting. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax”. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U359	Colleagues! This is one of the examples where we show... more precisely, you show that you are not interested in regional development. This proposal, by its very nature, means that the regions are being taken out of money, which is the payments provided for by the Natural Resources Tax Act, both for these landfills, which have already been talked about by previous speakers... However, this money is intended to improve the environment, the environment, and conditions. It has been said many times that there are no quotas in this budget. Colleagues, if you look at it, the municipalities are taking off the money. And here are your own documents that are attached to this draft budget. And, of course, the Ministry also emphasises that this tax is meant to solve environmental problems. Local governments point to this: if we change this proportion, then of course it will affect their autonomous functions, their ability to perform these functions successfully. However, this draft law... With all due respect for Minister Pucem, he knows better, and he knows with his mastery... I would even say that this is a certain master class that is included in this budget - how to hide parliamentary quotas. But it is not a small quota; it is a decent, fat quota that has absolutely nothing to do with the environment. If you yourself say that this tax is meant to eliminate environmental problems, then... propose to remove, then follow in other proposals where this money will go... we see clearly that there is nothing to do with the environment. Some questions are where we could draw environmental requirements behind our ears. The next speaker after me will be the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, who could explain how it will then be, how it will not affect this (Dep. D. Pavilāts: “He has already applied!” )... how this money will be spent, which you take by nature from the regions. After these proposals, we see that in a very concrete way, this money is likely to be spent in the Old Town offices, various ICT platforms, updates, programmes... I have doubts that it could return to the regions at some point. It is quite simply a matter of taking money from the municipalities, and it is just empty words that you are thinking about regional development. Colleagues, I call for attention to be paid to this draft law. This will undoubtedly have an impact on regional development.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U360	The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U361	First. It is a great pleasure for me to hear that the Union of Greens/Farmers has suddenly become very harsh defenders of the environment. That really is news. Secondly. These parliamentary quotas are being spoken about. That's really the past. The 28 million that was divided into the previous Saeima are not visible here. And obviously, if you talk so much about it, you miss it. But, sorry, you won't find it here and you won't see it. As I have already said, I have also spoken at first reading, these common amendments to the law are aimed at strengthening the environmental institutions, because they have indeed been very weak in the past, and I hope that they are not deliberately weakened. Thus, to make them stronger – the State Environment Service, the Nature Conservation Agency, the Environmental Protection Fund – it is very important to build the capacity of these institutions. And this will be done in the next year's budget as well as in the future. If we are talking specifically about the redistribution of natural resources tax in this context, then, yes, we see the State Audit Office report, where it is very clear and clear how the municipalities have used this funding for environmental objects and environmental protection purposes. Well, for example, for the purchase of stationery goods, for the payment of taxes and fines, for the wage of the farmers, for the repairs of the roofs, for the inventory of graves, for the construction of leaves, for the maintenance of plantings, for record keeping of cat sterilization, for the creation of floating fountains, and so on. Such very clear objectives, which coincide with environmental protection. But the municipalities have nothing to worry about, because next year's budget will have additional funds for different needs - the municipalities will have 63 million euros in the next year's budget, which they will be able to use for different purposes, including those related to environmental protection. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U362	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U363	Colleagues! In its opinion, the Latvian Local Government Union states: “The reduction of resources for the financing of environmental measures will contribute to the deterioration of the quality of the environment, which will pose a threat to the health of the population and reduce the quality of life of people, as well as to the fulfilment of EU requirements and objectives.” The answer to this is that by reducing municipal resources for financing environmental measures, their budgets will not contribute to a deterioration of the quality of the environment, which will threaten the health of the population, or reduce the quality of life of the people. Poece knows better. Pūce also says that in future municipalities will smarter use their resources. I will now share that money with the Minister for the Protection of the Environment and Regional Development. In 2020 - 7 million, in 2021 - 8.5 million, in 2022 - 9.4 million. Sport infrastructure, IT projects, local media support and similar environmental measures.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U364	Name of Member Inga Goldberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U365	Dear colleagues, This morning, Mr. Carin for the unemployed... The reduction in time and amount was said to be a symbolic step. This is also one of the next symbolic steps. There is a re-allocation of funding in favour of the State, excluding municipalities. And there are situations where it could actually be agreed, if not two aspects... The municipalities were very, very controlled about the use of these funds, and Mr Plese has just said. The smallest detail - the State Audit Office punished, described and did not allow. But the government plans to use the funds removed for entirely different purposes. You've heard of someone. And ironically, in this situation, its money will be used to strengthen national identity and promote state ownership. So one can, but the other can't. And the second point is that we are changing the rules once again, until we have yet to be clear about what its municipalities will really be, how their funding will be created. We have not yet made final decisions at this point, but we are changing the rules again. That is why, for these two aspects! - please support this proposal and not change the funding at this point. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U366	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U367	Mr. Plies! Maybe... Where'd he go? None. ( The utterances are: “Here, in front! ” “He is always sitting here!” ; “He has glasses!” ) Very good... Mr Plies, could you please explain what has been hidden under the headings in the VARAM budget... multiple positions. For example, an integrated approach to resource management (Phase 1). I have information that these are wages. And in several positions... I'll just list a few figures. So one part of the cost changes compared to the project... So the increase - 932, 290, 333 506, 880 287, 439 519 and so on. And there are several such positions - almost 10. So the total sum of the leopards is getting together. Perhaps you can explain what this “integrated approach to resource management (first stage)” was supported at the Cabinet meeting on 17 September? Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U368	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U369	Mr. Plies! Thank you for having been involved in the debate, trying at least to do so, but not quite successfully. My colleague has just told you. This 7 million-beneficiary... the environmental money removed from the regions. You can read the State Audit Office reports. And it is our duty to ensure that the municipal system is organised in such a way that as little money as possible is spent for an inappropriate purpose. It is our duty and therefore your duty as Parliamentary Secretary of the VARAM. At the same time, however, the largest money is invested in environmental and climate issues in the regions. You're taking it off right now. In addition to the 78 million you took away from targeted grants to municipalities to implement different ideas... 7 million are removed from this specific amount for the promotion of salaries of the employees of Old Riga... probably for the construction of a football stadium. And what does it have to do with climate issues, environmental issues? Colleagues, get ready before you talk. We read what is provided in your documents. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U370	Thank you. Your time is up! Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U371	Dear colleagues, Well, this question... Of course, we are not talking about some very large amounts that will shift from municipal budgets to the state budget, but yet... You understood that it's part of this overall trend... what you're doing. The same you do with revenues from gambling... from excise duty, the same you do with the same targeted grants and so on. You know, in the big picture, what you're doing is looking for your so-called fiscal space... you earn money... You cannot achieve some kind of economic growth, jobs, investment, more tax payments from it. So your search, where to get that fiscal space... you deal to a large extent with it at the expense of the municipalities. Then you know, the thing is that we all live in the same country, and the same people who elected you, they also elect members of the local government. Citizens also receive services from municipalities and so on. That's why you're basically... you at national level... you are making money transfers from one pocket to another and think that you have discovered some kind of new perpetuum mobile, some new source of revenue at the expense of local governments. Do you really think that this will have absolutely no consequences? You've been told by someone here that municipalities are swimming in cash. As I said yesterday, only a person who understood Pierīga Municipality, Marupi or Garkalni could develop such an idea. But, colleagues, the middle municipality doesn't swim at all in cash. The average municipality is experiencing a decline in population, within 10 years – at least 30 per cent, and this will continue. That is why, from these municipalities, which are already in a difficult situation, which do not have any funding to finance their infrastructure, social services and so on, you still deprive them of funding. And do you really think it won't have any consequences, that it won't go back to you in any way like a bumerang? We really are coming to an end, something big, colleagues. I think I see this very clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U372	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U373	Mr Plies, what did you keep so quiet when you were asked what was hidden in the 'Integrated Approach to Resource Management' programme? The whole of society must know that such a programme (which is hidden in this budget) "Integrated access to resource management" is wages, and there are several, as far as we are concerned, millions that you can give back to medical practitioners. That's what you're silent about. You don't want to answer from the pub, you don't want to say why you can't give this money to doctors, but why should you hide it in this program? One more thing. You are talking about SIA “State Investment Fund” if. You are speaking and, in essence, you say that... That's... “Environmental Investment Fund” - I said... that we need to support... There the state needs to put the money in. It's SIA, a commercial company! Read Article 1 of the Commercial Act. The task of a commercial company is to make profits, not to invest money in a commercial company. Article 1 of the Commercial Act states this. And it's completely absurd. Companies are set up to generate funds and to complement the budget, not to keep these companies from the budget. You can also give it to your doctors calmly. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U374	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U375	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U376	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - the proposal put forward by the Group of the Greens/Family Union! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U377	8 / 8 - Mr Valaina's proposal. There is no support in the Commission. Identical proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U378	The same is true for the 7th, but the debate is possible. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U379	Colleagues! If we started... and VARAM's parliamentary secretary mentioned that its money will still be for the environment and for environmental purposes, what example do you set? Colleagues, you're telling... Today and yesterday you spent a lot of time telling you about different things, that good goals and that good, effective management... You just from the platform, when we were on the previous proposal, criticised the local authorities for making a pointless investment. It was just! After several speakers... Several speakers pointed out that you would simply spend this money on the salaries of the Old Town employees. And you don't have anything to say anymore. ( Internouncing call.) The fact that you're just building, I'm saying maybe football stadiums for sports infrastructure... Colleagues! Well, don't you sound... Mr. Plies said it was... we have left the MEPs' quotas. There are no quotas anymore. Well, then (Military: “Never was!” )... It's never been possible, yeah... But this is some new level - these are such political quotas, hidden in various ways. And today we will also talk about the other political quotas that we have found in this budget. Colleagues! Now it is not bad that you support such programmes, but name it in an open manner, which is the case. Don’t try to get it under the natural resource tax, don’t try to criticise the municipality by saying: “Nordic governments, you work badly, we will be good ones, and we simply invest in the office in the Old Town. Yeah, let's build football stadiums." Yes, political quotas! If you haven't noticed it, then Development/About! you're just hugged. Colleagues! Are you all on the course? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “The coalition council is!” (See paragraph 4.5 of this Regulation.) The coalition council, let's say, is in the course. But, colleagues, this criticism is, in my opinion, a point. And today there was a great deal of effort, but still quite unsuccessful attempts to defend... And the worst thing is that when you tried to defend this proposal, you criticised the municipalities. You should know that the accusations mentioned in the State Audit Office report, they are already, I think most of them have been eliminated for a long time. And to a large extent, most of the money from these resources is invested in the target. And for a lot of money, absolutely all that money... Anyway! Even though they build fountains for this money, it is still invested in regions. And the inequalities between the regions are increasing, and you are simply taking this money out of the regions with this decision. And this is another decision in this budget. It is not enough that targeted grants are reduced for municipalities, you are taking this money out in all other possible ways, these resources. Colleagues! In the regions, life will become very difficult in the years to come if there is such a policy. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U380	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U381	The natural resource tax is the position where this coalition government is also lying to the general public. Karin shows and says in his advertising clips: “We will not raise taxes this year.” Natural resources tax is a tax which is objectively introduced with this budget, and it is lied to the public. The second thing in the same context is why such proposals from Development/About! Why are they supported by the New Unity Government? We're gonna build something again, or we don't know anything again. And in fact, to get the public to understand why this entire construction cartel is being supported so much... In fact, you all shout here, including the BIP, and you shout for oligarchs, cartels. You already support it, you have already created that cartel. If you weren't, there would be no construction cartel, for example, there would not be a builder, Martinson, with continuous public orders, or RE & RE, which led to the collapse... and there was a Zolitude tragedy, but which still received public orders. You need all the time to have something to build, build, build, because it is possible to get the so-called otcats in the simplest way possible. That is why the UKP also wanted to place their prison in the budget. Because there could be built and also got those otkats back, very likely. Skulls - let's call them in Latvian - Skulls! And, in fact, that's how you talk to the public - without even blinking your eyes, lying, saying, "We won't raise taxes!" Now this is an example that taxes are already being raised in this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U382	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U383	Highly honourable colleagues and a very honourable government! Do we not hear from you all the time that we must reduce inequality? You count how many times each one of you has said so. Election during the campaign almost every day, right? ‘ We need to reduce inequalities!” Are you... Is that so? You live in that country. Do you not know that we have a large part of the inequality from a regional point of view? Where is the highest unemployment rate? Regions. Where will the population decline most? Regions. The more far from Riga, the greater the decrease in the population. Where is the lowest income? Regions. And what are you doing? You are still drawing funding from those who already have the worst situation in the country! You are doing absolutely the opposite: not to reduce inequality, but to increase inequality! Is that not clear to you? How can that not be clear? You take more funding from the regions of those who are the poorest in this country. How can you then tell someone that your priority is to reduce inequality?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Isn't that lying? You don't understand? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U384	The name of Member Janina Yalinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U385	I would like to express my thanks to Mr Ples, who has taken part in the debate on this subject, but I do not agree with one question concerning the State Audit Office. The State Audit Office does not only examine municipal institutions, but also state institutions, ministries and so on. And that doesn't mean if there's some sort of irregularities in the Ministry... and there's some re-allocation... somewhere else in another ministry, isn't it? That must be punished! (Applause) This shall be punishable if the local authorities or public authorities have infringed the law and have not used the specific means provided for in nature conservation. This must be punished and not supported. However, it is not aid if these funds are withdrawn from the municipalities and, at the same time, the State does not use them for nature conservation purposes. That is really neither justified nor good. And the fact that these funds will also leave the regions... For example, Daugavpils municipality - minus over 600 thousand, which has left Daugavpils municipality... directly from natural resources... because there's a landfill there. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “But the football field can be built!” ) Yes, and it goes out of certain areas. That is why I also call for support for the proposal by Viktoras Valaiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U386	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U387	Colleagues seem not to be missing Mr. Kariņš from the room when we are debating the bill "Amendments to the Natural Resources Tax Act". I think he could really be ashamed of this bill, because he was the one who always told the public media and the public that we were not taxing! This is a bill where taxes are raised. Natural resources tax is being introduced substantially only a few months before they enter into force. If someone says that there is little to ask a company like Cemex who estimates that they will have half a million more expenses next year due to these changes. Second. He has taken the money from the municipalities to divide their money into parliamentary quotas. It has not been easy. I have also noticed this, because what has attracted attention in particular is that about EUR 7 million is being allocated to the Ministry of Culture to each of the EUR 1 million. And then I mean, why is that? But then I remembered. The former Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development was from the National Association. They know how it works and have been able to ask the existing Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development to have his part. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U388	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U389	Colleagues! We are talking a lot about the government's actions that you are going to regularise with future votes. However... What upsets me - here we have seen quite, well, an effort to justify the action of the Minister, but the Minister himself has disappeared somewhere. It would be quite crazy if Mr. Reira had to go on talking about Mr. Pouce's things. I believe he could do it, but... Mr. Pouce sat here all day, but when his question finally comes, he's gone. Colleagues! If not one of you... Call Mr. Puce and say, "The draft law will be examined, we will have questions!" Let the Minister come and explain the impact of these amendments! If he doesn't intend to do that, then I don't know why he was here all day.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U390	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U391	Yes, and it is you, Unity, that you have allowed shell companies to operate for years in construction! - who don't really have their own stuff or their own staff, because it's easier to get those pubs, and so you've always had a priority... over man. Keep robbing municipalities, people, business people... But I have bad news: signatures about the dismissal of the Saeima have begun to be collected. Officially, this has started today. Continue in the same spirit, BIP, Unity, National Union, Development/About! , Kaimiņš or “ kapi.lv”. Keep going, and it is quite clear that this Saeima will be fired, because this Saeima deserves to be fired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U392	I closed the debate. Or on behalf of the Commission on Proposal No 8... Is that so? No, no. Nor can it be put to the vote. We are going on with proposal 9.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U393	9. - the proposal of Member Švekova, which provides for a change in the proportion of the revenue in the municipal or state budget. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U394	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U395	Well, the proposal is very similar to my previous proposal, but... Because you didn't support the previous... This, however, offers 50 for 50. Let's do this breakdown... However, in some way, we reach the municipalities! Show me that a conscience has appeared in you. Or are we looking at the use of money that the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development intends to use for absolutely inappropriate purposes under the Natural Resources Tax Act? Well, let's see! Colleagues! We indicated in advance... No one comes to question what we are saying, and obviously that is the case. But... either, if not in full, at least 50 per 50. It would be normal to divide this natural resource tax between municipalities. It would be difficult to say that the municipalities agree with this proposal to amend the law. This is another good example of good governance... The proposed draft law has been agreed with municipalities only after the fact. ‘ We figured out, we accept, and then we're going to tell us what we figured out. You can say what you want. We will also vote in the way we figure out.” Unfortunately, this is the government, whatever it may be said about the previous government of Kučinski. I remember how the tax reform was designed - there were all... at one table were sitting all the social partners, discussing ideas - at one table. And all that came from it - there were very many social partners who supported it, there were many who "put off" during the process, but there were discussions with everyone. Now you're showing... and we should not put our heads on the moment when we criticise you, that is the result only of your own, and above all of your own, ministers, arrogance and action. Colleagues, I call for support for Mrs Švekova's proposal. I think that is a certain compromise. You did not support the first, then support at least the second, which is the step lower. We will still have today, I think, not only a question on this subject, so, colleagues, listen to what we are saying!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U396	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U397	The nature of my proposal is slightly different from that of Mr Valaiņa, and I am only proposing, in line with the principle of subsidiarity, that this tax be redeployed between the local government and the national budget, because - which is then the sinner of those who live in the local government who should now pay the desire of the ruling coalition for centralisation and the irresistible appetite to spend both local government and budget money. It seems to me that, by its very nature, the stability of the state, including to a greater extent, depends on the independence and independence of the municipality, the loyalty of the municipality towards the people living on its territory. The American researcher and writer, Nasim Nicolas Taleb, in one of his recent books, very much draws attention to the fact that it was the Swiss governance model, which focused on independent, independent and highly stable municipalities, municipal functions and decentralisation, that ensured the welfare and wealth of the country. And I think that perhaps what is happening at the moment is a very big and significant mistake, and stealing the people of local government by redistributing the tax on natural resources to the benefit of the state alone... the power of the threatening political elite is unjust. ( Internoint.) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U398	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U399	Colleagues! I hope to expect something more from Mr. Plesha than just addressing the municipalities, because unfortunately, too, in the European Affairs Commission when Mr. Plesha comes and tells about climate change and that we all have to prepare for and take responsibility for it... When there are specific questions about how this issue will be reflected, for example, in road transport owners or private house owners, whether there will be any change or not, and how much - then he cannot explain. He speaks in general phrases. Nor is he able to explain what it means to have an integrated approach to resource management. We're waiting. But there are still a lot of proposals on this draft law, perhaps Mr Pleis will finally find this information.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U400	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U401	I think that the issue of a natural resource tax that is being increased... whose Prime Minister Kariņš is not present at the Saeima Hall and is not present at all in the Saeima... A moment ago I saw him with his 17 bodyguards in the canteen, but now he's not here to deal with this important issue... When the responsible person from VARAM - Member Pleis - is asked an elementary question: who is hiding behind the heading 'integrated approach to resource management', where there are millions inside... elementary question... then that responsible person is unable to answer. If we had a real head of state, he would climb this platform instead of Mr Ples, who is obviously not competent and unable to answer the public hidden there, and such a head of state would explain to the general public what is in this position, how it will be used, would also explain the environment... the fund concerned and explain why the natural resources tax will be introduced. He would also explain why construction cartels with shell construction companies are possible in Latvia and why the greatest corruption is in construction, and explain why these parties are related to construction, in my opinion, such as Development/About! or UPDATE. It would be a real head of state who could climb into the platform and explain to the public. Of course, he wouldn't have anything to hide. But probably our Head of State does not lead the country, because it is absolutely clear that he has not made any sentence on the substance of the budget within these two days. Still! And it's always sent... either Reiro is sent here to try to justify whether Mrs Petravič is sending or someone else, but cannot himself. That cannot be the Head of State, and that Head of State must be dismissed! The only way to release such a Head of State at the moment - people go and sign for the dismissal of the Saeima, to show THE Unity that the time of the Unity is coming to an end. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: “On the proposal!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U402	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Gobzems: "Mr. Strike, come on, please, once." The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstin’s intermediate call sign.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U403	Colleagues! There's some kind of... in Latvia. can you fix what I'm saying... the 11 landfill sites and the municipalities where these municipal landfill sites are located will be the ones most affected. This proposal, you can correct what I said... Maybe it's more or less, but in essence it's something like that. And in the region on whose territory the landfill is located... Let's take the whole Vidzeme to one of its landfills... then, of course, challenges arise in that region with regard to the quality of nature, the environment. However, you are now simply removing this money from the region, even though they have to take care of the way in which these wastebin machines can drive and do not pollute the surrounding area, as well as on various other climate and environmental issues. They have to take care of all this in the most immediate way! I will say as it is: at the moment, the stupidest thing in this bill is that you are simply investing these funds in the offices of the Old Town, as we have already pointed out here. That it's just for office staff to raise salaries. And that's just a camouflage!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U404	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U405	Dear colleagues, Now we need to understand the dual situation of VARI. On the one hand, some kind of tax has to be imposed in order to complement the budget. On the other hand, local authorities need to be taken care of, because it is one of the responsible functions... In addition, it is not just local authorities that are to be looked after, but also local authorities' reorganisation and administrative territorial reform. I think, in principle, Mr Pleis should support this proposal with both hands... one condition... to complement it with a rule: those who voluntarily merge - of them 50 to 50. A to someone who does not want to come together on a voluntary basis - cheap! Very normal proposal. (Applause) Imposition: “It’s already!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U406	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U407	Mr. Karins! You have finally honored us with your majesty and are in this hall. Well then maybe you can answer what it is about in the VARAM budget - an integrated approach to resource management? Show Latvian society that you know the budget! But it seems you don't know. It seems that you always when I started talking to you and asking you questions, somehow protect and avoid. Mr. Kariņš, start running the country once! Start getting to know the budget so that you can answer the public that such positions are hidden in the official salaries, hidden in the promotion of salaries so that medical professionals do not see enough. It is in these positions. And that is why Mr Pleis, who represents the interests of VARAM and is, as far as I understand, a parliamentary secretary in this ministry, does not go on the table and does not explain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U408	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U409	I would very much welcome this reallocation, with a higher share of the natural resource tax being passed on to municipalities... not municipalities... the state, not the local authorities, if VARA is able to justify that it really has the ability to use the resources wisely and environmentally purposefully. So come, Mr Ples, to tell us how you have used the benefits of the natural resource tax so far, how you have used the funding from emissions trading so far. If you can't, then maybe Mr Kariņš can come up with how your quotas - such as football grounds, such as IT projects, such as wage increases, such as the priorities of the Ministry of Culture - will contribute specifically to improving the quality of the environment.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U410	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what should be added?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U411	9. - the proposal from Member Svekov. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U412	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - a proposal from a Member, Ms Svekova. Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 30, against - 55, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U413	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce. Supported by the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U414	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - the proposal submitted by the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 55, against - 28, refrains. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U415	11. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce. Partly supported by the Commission, included 12. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U416	Members agree. Members agree? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Agreed.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U417	12. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U418	Members are in favour. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Bondars: “Yes!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U419	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U420	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U421	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U422	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U423	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce. Supported by the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U424	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. - the proposal submitted by the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, 30, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U425	16. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U426	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U427	Colleagues, with this proposal, we propose that the tax on natural resources is not increased, certainly not from 1 January at least. Why are we doing this? First. The government promised that taxes would not increase in this budgetary process. Secondly. A company such as SCHWENK Latvija... and others... as ‘Cemex’... which pays EUR 8 million per year in taxes, informed us in the Commission that this is an important additional burden for the company that no one has consulted them - neither with them, nor with the Council of Foreign Investors in Latvia, nor with any other organisations representing entrepreneurs. And it was pointed out that the 71 per cent increase in taxes on sand in such a short time is disproportionate, undermines legitimate expectations and significantly increases costs for entrepreneurs. MANAW has offered that... has explained, for example, why the tax increase is so significant for sand. That is the main argument used by the Ministry - to reduce the shadow economy in the sector. Because there are entrepreneurs who do not show actually extracted sand. And I would say this: I have not heard any more absurd arguments. It seems to me that every person who has tried to implement even one measure to combat the shadow economy realises that, in areas where there is a large shadow economy, taxation should be reduced rather than increased and controls strengthened. If you increase taxes, you make it even more profitable business for those cheating businesses that already illegally acquire sand. Learn from previous experience! Fruit, vegetables... There was a huge shadow economy in that area. We reduced VAT - legalized trade. In those sectors where VAT could not be reduced and there was a large shadow economy, we introduced reverse VAT. What you are doing is completely absurd: to increase taxes and hope that there will be less deceptive businesses. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U428	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U429	Combating the shadow economy, this proposal and the government-led bill... In general already the Natural Resources Tax Act... After this debate, I think you should start to think that something is wrong with this law, so also with this proposal, where... there is only one large company in Latvia that could be affected. Undoubtedly, this has also happened. And, of course, this impact will continue... this effect... This will also have a further impact on construction costs. In my opinion, this is not a very far-reaching proposal that has been drawn up, but it shows both one thing that I think I will be talking about when we come to some very important proposals later on - that there are a whole range of areas (and very many areas!) , where the government has not considered it necessary to consult... Just consult before making decisions. Let's just go on! For the second day, we are talking about the principle of good governance... how decisions are taken. We make a decision and then we look at what will come out of it. Some kind of... the idea of "something happens"... Well, then let's see what's going to happen there! Okay, let's cut regional aid. We need money for various initiatives - let's get out of the regions. Now let's see... Yes, the sand... Let's fight the shadow economy. Increase taxes - do the opposite absolutely! And then let's go talk to businessmen. If they don't come by themselves, then... Well, as in this case... The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission... said this... and told me how wrong it was. But now Mr Bondara shows his skill to move forward, regardless of anything: right, wrong - just vote, let's go. Colleagues! This already shows your own attitude to the issues, to the draft laws that you are taking - which is important to you, which is not important. And how much you can think you don't need to consult the industry if we make decisions about them. But today I will explain to you later on about individual decisions that we could also take without consulting the sector. But how much... The government has also written to us the reply, how much it is concerned about this particular sector and how much it wants to protect this particular sector. And this is about the compulsory procurement component for businessmen who, as the government sees, have a special interest in. But in this case, let's figure out -- let's go in completely the opposite of any principle, let's go on! Colleagues! I call on you to listen to these things.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U430	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U431	Mr. Karins! If you are aware of the budget, then you could definitely be called a lie after the video rolls you are making on the UNIVERSITY website (no increase in taxes). But since you do not know the budget and these rollers are prepared for you by others (they are text written in front, which you yourself have not written), you cannot be called a lie. And you don't know that the natural resource tax is raised for the sake of the official - not medical! - pay 6.5 million in salaries, salary increases. These 6.5 million independent Members have proposed to hand over to medical practitioners a bill on the budget for the following year, which you have also, of course, rejected so that Mr Plesz, who represents the interests of VARAM, can put on his Facebook profile on the picture that he is also in favour of health. He spoke for health: under the heading ‘Integrated approach to resource management’, 6.5 million salaries were hidden. It hides from the eyes of the public those salary supplements for itself, which could actually be directed by the doctors and on which Prime Minister Karin does not really understand anything at all, because he is unable to climb in the platform and prove or justify that this is not the case. He does not know what is written in the budget, and that is what we see for these two days. A government leader who does not know the budget cannot direct the state of Latvia!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U432	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U433	Dear colleagues, So the taxes don't change, do they? Mr. Karins tells everyone that taxes are not changing. But... Sit down, I think it's not polite. If we look at the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of 17 September, then paragraph 30 determines... What does it determine? Thus: ‘support the proposals specified by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development on changes to the natural resource tax rate,’... not a reduction, isn't it?... “Reallocation of revenue between state and local government budgets, while ensuring system alignment and adjustment of rates, and support that additional revenue is allocated to expenditure for activities of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development for 2020 in the amount of EUR 6 528 648,” for 2021 – for the amount of EUR 7.1 million and for 2022 and every year thereafter of EUR 8.3 million. Further: Ministry of Finance to clarify the forecasts of natural resources tax revenue by increasing it by 7.6 million for 2020, 8.5 million for 2021 and 10 million for 2022 and municipal budgets by 5.4 million for 2020, 4.5 million for 2021 and 4.6 million for 2022. Tell me, is this not taxing? No, no? And this is not the concealment of money in the VAR's budget? Not at all? We call for the money that you have anticipated and hidden into salaries, to be given to medical staff. It is you who are responsible for VARAM, and you are responsible for the deceptive doctors, the honored “Development/About!” Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U434	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U435	Dear colleagues, I have two things to say about this. There's... It is very good that Mr. Linkaita is sitting here in the Chamber, that I am asked not to go anywhere until now if. Well, first, I... What has already been said about whether or not taxes will be levied. For me too, to be honest, the first reaction was exactly: why? It's the Prime Minister on TV several times... everywhere... said that taxes would not be introduced. For us, even at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, the Ministry of Finance presented the excellent presentation, which contains the slide, where there are the public's benefits from the next year's budget, the main... How long it is... nine points. The first point was that no taxes will be levied. Then I read it more carefully, and yes, well, I'm... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Interdependence of Reizniece-Ozola.) That's exactly what it was said was not proposing a change in tax policy for citizens, well, here... All right. It somehow qualifies as such a half-truth if. To what extent is this taxing for citizens? And then there is also the question of the future: the expensive government and the coalition, which, in your opinion, is the tax for the population and which is not for the population? For example, value added tax. You think it's... it is paid by the population, or... entrepreneurs? Well, to the future... So when you say that you will not raise taxes, do you think so - all taxes, or taxes, on citizens? Which do you think are taxes on citizens? Well, if you're doing this kind of half-truth, it's really good to know. Second point: This tax will primarily affect construction companies, along with... That's pretty... a kind of construction that... Either, not exactly where demand comes from ordinary citizens, but certainly it will be road construction. I think you can say with absolute certainty that the cost of building roads will be higher. And I have a question for you. Have you tried to calculate and forecast this at all, Mr. Linkaita, at how much construction costs, such as roads, will increase? So that what you have in the budget, all its planned costs for maintenance and renovation of roads... Is it all there, well, something realistic? The same Ķekava bypass. That's... You'll be able to get into the previous picture if? So, colleagues, it's all very easy for you to see that, in fact, the main demand for this construction is largely from the state and the municipality... and that you... You're actually going to build... you have drawn the revenue from this tax, which is from the state budget and the municipal budget. Well, that's it... I mean, I mean, you could have a little smile about it if it wasn't... if it wasn't so sad, colleagues. (Applause) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U436	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U437	The tax culture is, in fact, based on a single elementary statement: how understandable it is, how simple it is, and how within a reasonable period of time, it is to be implemented. I have a question. Do you think that by removing the State Revenue Service, will the shadow economy fall or grow? Because according to Stockholm School of Economics in Riga researchers... They found that since 2016... In 2016, the shadow economy accounted for 20,7 per cent of GDP, already 22 per cent in 2017, and reached 24,2 per cent in 2018. It's growing every year. And the Ministry of Finance is responsible for this. From a sectoral point of view, the highest share of the shadow economy is still observed in the construction sector. But we know that this sector is essentially dependent on the financial flows of European funds. And we also know very well that it is the European funds' financial flows that are mainly administered by the Ministry of Finance. And that is, the Minister for Finance, Mr Reira. It has to be understood that according to the information of Mrs. Znotiņa, Head of the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering... she has said that there are 12 groups operating in Latvia engaged in money laundering. For information: 11 law enforcement agencies conduct investigations in Latvia. Practically one group per law enforcement authority. What do I mean by that? That in our country, both law enforcement authorities and public administration as a whole have one very serious and significant situation. In 2018, when assessing the competence and quality of the Latvian public administration, the experts of the World Bank ranked it as 24th among the 28 Member States of the European Union. And indeed, the weakest stages in Latvia are the heads of institutions and the absence of the meaning of the state apparatus, which, in turn, is rooted in the political engagement and irresponsibility of the senior officials towards the public. I would like to quote the recognition of U.S. researcher Taleb from his book “On Assins as Democrats and on Politics”: “If a democratic system does not ensure normal governance and does not ensure it thanks to family ties and hidden corruption, we always know what to do. We need to make a rotation at the top. A person will be willing to accept and comply with clear, simple, understandable rules of the game, as defined by law, will be loyal to a country that ensures well-being and security for the family, respects tax discipline if he sees that taxes are transparent and just and does not participate in meetings or demonstrations, if he receives adequate remuneration for a quality job.’
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U438	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U439	Some quotations or close to quotations. The coalition has agreed to raise taxes once - and in 2021. When presenting the budget to the Saeima: good news - no taxes will be raised in the 2020 budget. In the parallel world, we have succeeded; I don’t know if I will list everyone; we have succeeded in reducing the tax on the sniff (Interface: “Yes!” ), but we will be building again now in March 2020, instead of 2021. Lifting the lemonade... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Interdependence of Reizniece-Ozola.) Yeah, now to lift up the sand. (Laughter) (See the box below.) Something... some salt, as I think the schizophrenic situation is developing. And I slowly began to understand what President Levit said in “900 seconds” that he could also pass the law on time... So that we legalise these decisions according to what has been said and decided... for this coalition around 2021... We should probably legitimise it and adopt the law that sometimes 2021 also joins in 2019. Well, several times... Well, several times in a row... sometimes. There is, of course, such a genre - science fiction - and there are quite a lot of stories traveling in time. There was such a film “Next in the future”. But I would urge you to be careful about these laws on time and time travel, because perhaps when you go to 2021, you will not meet yourself there. Watch out! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U440	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U441	Yes, dear colleagues! This is... I have only a question that I would like to ask Minister Pucem, but since she is not in the Chamber, then the new person who is the parliamentary secretary of this ministry. Tell me, please, to raise this tax, you're going to raise the cost of the raw material, right? Raw materials, which are also available in Lithuania and Estonia. Perhaps you can climb the platform and explain to us whether you have made some analysis of what its comparative costs will be and whether it may be that by raising your tax, you will increase the demand for the raw material that will come from Lithuania and from Estonia. After all, remember that your Ministry is not only for the environment, but also for regional development, and that these companies work to a large extent in the regions. Therefore, can you please make us clear on this issue to what extent this will contribute to regional development? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U442	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U443	Dear colleagues, I think it is necessary to supplement Mr. Zarina's proposal to remove the word "One Law - One Justice for All" from the Cabinet of Ministers' Room... It should be added that it is your motto that spends on this budget: “nine times lies become the truth.” And just like nine times, defaulted information for the public is forgotten, the "integrated approach to resource management" will be forgotten, but we will remind it again and again. These wages which you hide will be known to the public, believe us.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U444	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U445	I wanted to complement my colleague Didji Schmidt. Our President said that there are laws that must be enforced, and there are laws that can not be enforced. Well, by choice, the government wants. Society, too... Well, I understand that this is being raised as though it were now, but it may not be carried out by 2021. After all, the president said that he could and could not do the law. So if the government said that by 2021 taxes will not be raised... This year, the budget has been raised, but let society not... It will start in 2021.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U446	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what should be added?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U447	The Commission has not supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U448	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - the proposal put forward by the Group of the Greens/Family Union! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U449	17. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U450	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U451	18. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U452	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U453	Colleagues! The law provides that CO2 emissions... the tax on natural resources is doubled. And that, by its very nature, I think it could also be the right step if it were to be done in a timely consultation with entrepreneurs, with the public and not with their budgets... Evening... the bill package to turn on and hope that no one will notice. More embarrassing: it is true that these funds obtained are not diverted to sort out the environment, are not diverted to medical salaries, are not diverted to teachers' salaries, but are diverted to football fields and IT projects. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U454	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Mr. Valaiņš, come to the debate. V. Valainis: “Yes, yes! I'm sorry!” ), do not delay the time!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U455	Colleagues! I have to join. The main idea and in a way the pride of presenting this budget was that taxes are not changed. Taxes are being changed and here we are demonstrating how they are being changed. And this emissions... Proposal on emissions... MANY... Colleagues! Mr Plesh, Parliamentary Secretary, listen to it! In the future, you will have the challenges that you will face - both those mentioned in the press... these stoves will have to be replaced in some way... And what... There were questions from the Ministry of Economics about machines... that new rates, new rules should be introduced. These are the challenges you will face in the near future. You will not be able to avoid this. It will be this Saeima, who will have to decide on it, and they will be you, who will have to prepare all this. What I draw attention to is that you are currently raging the tax on natural resources and distributing this money. No matter how much I don't like you redealing it... but how did you re-allocate it and where did you invest that money... You don't look far-sighted, you just invested in office staff salaries, but at the same time you forget that you will have even more major challenges. There was a minister here - he counted a whole series of programmes in which you invested - the natural resources tax, the Ministry of Culture, non-governmental organizations... Well, it's okay, it's okay... But, you know, people will have to change those stoves. And it would be good if there were some state aid programme there or something else, but instead you simply hid under some mystical programme, creating political quotas... supporting the construction of a football field. Good program, but put it on the sport to Mr. Riekstin's sub-committee to look at it! Look at it according to the sport... for sports in the Ministry of Education and Science, see it in a broader context. Now, VARAM... From the Natural Resources Tax Act... build sports grounds. I understand that this is a good initiative and one politician wants to show that they have fought for it. Beautiful, but, well, we need to do it better... and income from this tax, including emissions in particular. We need to understand what challenges we will face in the coming years and how we will face these challenges. These are the sources, and you will have to talk about it... and you will have to admit that you have made a mistake in this matter. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U456	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U457	In fact, it is even worse than with the quotas of Members. In the past, Members' quotas were open. Everyone saw the parties share money and so on. Now they're hidden. Now party representatives come to municipalities and say: “We have quota allocated. Well, you can't talk about it out loud. What do you want? What can we figure out for you?” ( The box “Yes! ”) Thank you very much. That is exactly what is happening at the moment, only in a hidden form. It is an uncompromising rule of law, it is a double-moral one, and it is perfectly logical that nothing else is possible with a government like this. The Dubular Government is that way! With its hidden quotas, and in the bill “Amendments to the Natural Resources Tax Act” it is very obvious. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U458	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U459	This proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U460	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. - the proposal put forward by the Group of the Greens/Family Union! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U461	19. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U462	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U463	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U464	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U465	Colleagues! It is understandable that the Ministry of Culture wants to re-allocate the revenue from the natural resources tax in favour of its activities. It is also understandable that other ministries and members of the coalition also want to divide their money into quotas. But what is inconceivable and should be remembered by the Minister that he is not only a municipal minister, he is an environmental minister, and what he is doing at the moment with a natural resource tax and the allocation of this income into quotas is a crime, because then he, justified by the fact that there are European regulations and requirements for us to achieve our environmental objective, will issue an invoice to the public by increasing the tax on the use of cars, telling the Ministry of Agriculture that it is necessary to reduce the number of livestock, because they lead to large emissions, telling drivers of vehicles that it is necessary to significantly reduce fuel consumption by taxing if your housing is not energy-efficient enough... and there will be many other measures that will cause additional costs not to the local government destroyer, not to the environment destroyer, but to you, the residents of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U466	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U467	Well, this here's the same proposal as the previous one, and here's also the Party's New Unity a long time ago, with a very large pump, Ralph Nemiro, Minister of KPV LV, is evaluating their paper on cars prepared by the Ministry. What was it, and with what did it end? You are now facing these challenges in this report by the Ministry of Economic Affairs... Well, somehow we're gonna have to fight. They don't disappear anywhere. These are not our national ones. And at the same time, you are in favour of simply spending these money, let us say so, for inappropriate purposes. What the State Audit Office will say when it looks... this draft law that you have supported... how do you spend natural resources tax money? I think that is wrong. And, colleagues, I will remind you once again: remember what this tax is aimed at. I think that with the adoption of this tax, the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development has done two things: he has shown that he is not a Minister for Local Government Affairs and that he is not a Minister for the Environment either, because he does not defend both of these areas. And this law bears witness to it.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U468	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U469	Let's keep going for the hidden quotas. Why is the tax on natural resources being increased? I read the minutes of the Cabinet of Ministers, that is, of the Cabinet of Ministers of Kariņš of 17 September No. 42. From the increase in natural resources tax in 2020, the quota for the Ministry of Culture is 1 million EUR 200 thousand, from this tax in 2021 - 1 million EUR 400 thousand, and in 2022 - EUR 1.7 million. That is why the National Association is voting on such hidden quotas and on such an increase in taxes. This is hidden, and that is why this tax is being increased - in order to be able to be hidden, quietly, to divide quotas between parties, between political groups and between different sectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U470	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what should be added?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U471	The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U472	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 20. - the proposal put forward by the Group of the Greens/Family Union! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U473	Overall, all proposals have been examined. I ask colleagues to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U474	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, 30, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U475	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Mr. Prime Minister! Ministers! Colleagues! Colleagues! In the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, we have examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”. I would like to point out that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission gave everyone the floor to discuss - everyone who showed interest. Three proposals have been received in this draft law. Let's go! Proposal No 1 - it is Proposal No 72 of the 479 proposals that we need to consider. 1. is a proposal of the Legal Bureau, which is both editorial and substantive indicating that students abroad are entitled to claim for study credits and student credits specified in Article 79 of this Law. Supported by the Commission by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U476	Let's start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U477	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, I have applied to discuss this proposal because in this budget package it is one of the few proposals where the position of the Cabinet of Ministers is different from that of the Parliamentary Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. I am glad that both Mr Kariņš and Mr Bondara are here. They could introduce clarity as to why these differences exist. The rapporteur has already said about this draft law that it is about future study credits, that is, those with which the study fee can be paid, and student loans intended to cover the social needs of students... if these credits are taken from credit institutions, the guarantee will be available not only from Latvia, as has been the case so far, but will also be available from special programmes with the support of European Union funds or from international financial institutions. Since, with the delegation of the Saeima, I am a representative of one such international financial institution in Latvia (I am talking about the Nordic Investment Bank, where I am a member of the Committee on Control), I am primarily interested in the question of whether any programmes of the Nordic Investment Bank are to be attracted here. The proposal has been submitted by the Legal Office and the nature of the proposal is such (which has not been noticed... apparently did not notice the Cabinet of Ministers, and did not notice the Ministry that prepared the draft law), that it is necessary to change the Cabinet of Ministers' regulations by providing for guarantees of delegation from European funds and international financial institutions. The previous regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers were adopted in 2001. Now with this bill... These proposals of the Legal Bureau are delegated to the Cabinet of Ministers to develop new regulations. Since these new proposals will mainly affect those young people of Latvia who wish to study abroad and want to obtain these guaranteed credits for study fees or social needs, it is not currently known what is planned to write in the new regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. I would be very happy if either from the Cabinet of Ministers or from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, where these... As it was said, this draft law was very carefully evaluated what could come and tell us how those young Latvians who want to study abroad will be able to get this extended possibility of guarantees in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U478	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U479	This proposal from the Legal Office is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U480	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U481	2. There is also a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which lays down a delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to establish rules on lending of students and students, and determines which rules should be respected up to a new rule... until the rules are drawn up. This proposal was supported by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U482	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U483	3. - a proposal from the Minister for Education and Science, Mr. Long Schuplinsk. Partially supported, included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U484	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U485	I call for support to be given to the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Higher Education at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U486	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Higher Education" at second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Education Act”, second reading. The draft law is also declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U487	We have also examined in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission the draft law ‘Amendments to the Education Act’. I would point out that all those who wanted to discuss the draft law were given the name of the commission. A total of 44 proposals were received for the draft law. 1. - Legal Bureau proposal, technical and editorial. Partially supported, included 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U488	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U489	2. - the proposal of MEPs Evija Papule and Lubova Svekova. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U490	So, Commissioner Švecova wants to debate. Would you have two minutes? So we will continue the debate after the break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name for Maria Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, to report on the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U491	Not registered: Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla, Boriss Cilevičs, Ilmars Dūritis, Inese Ikstena, Andris Kazinovskis (Interface: I am!) ), Ivan Clementyev, Armands Krauze, Evija Papule and Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U492	Interruption until 4:45 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U493	Honourable Members! We're continuing the Saeima sitting. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Education Law”. Debate on proposal 2. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U494	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that point 24 "sets out the funding arrangements for programmes of education of interest and institutions of education of public interest". This discriminates against and restricts the right of all children to have equal access to educational institutions of interest, thus proposing to supplement the draft law with a new article in the following wording: ‘Without prejudice to Article 14(24) of the law, the words ‘and public interest education institutions’ shall be understood to mean that all children have equal access to education of interest in institutions. I note that the Latvian Municipal Union also indicated in its letter that the legal framework included in this article must first be carefully assessed and discussed, involving parents and social partners, and only then the draft law should be implemented separately. Consequently, the draft law cannot be moved under urgency. Please vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U495	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U496	In the Commission, proposal 2 is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U497	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal from Members Papule and Svelova! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 19, no, 47, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U498	There is also the proposal of MEPs, Papule and Svekov, which has not been endorsed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U499	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U500	Point 24.1 "sets out the criteria and procedures for awarding and withdrawing the status of public interest education institution". If that provision were not discriminatory, it would be supported. But we ask for a new article to be added to the draft law in the following wording: "Disable Article 14, paragraph 24.1 of the law (with regard to the criteria and procedure for granting and withdrawing public interest education institutions, which will enter into force on 1 September 2020". Because the provision is discriminatory and does not allow all children to enjoy the same rights as regards education of interests. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Muižniece: “I don’t understand what you’re talking about?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U501	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U502	Commission proposal 3 is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U503	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the proposal from Members Papule and Svelova! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 19, it's against 52, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U504	4. - the proposal by Members Papule and Svelova. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U505	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U506	Hello, colleagues! I also believe that this proposal must be rejected. But that is essential, in my opinion, not only for the members of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission who were present when it was explained why this proposal was rejected, but also for others to explain. In particular, the essence of the proposal is that 2018-2020 is intended, so to say, social support cushion for teachers over the age of 65 who have at least 25 years of service and work in special educational establishments so that they can, to say, retire faster and receive state support. The essence of the proposal is to extend this range to music and sports educators, and it sounds very good and even desirable. On the other hand, when calculating and seeing that the funding provided for this social assistance this year is sufficient for 16 to 20 people, and that this real circle of beneficiaries could (as a minimum) be 248 people, please do not support this motion by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U507	The name of the Member, Lubov Switzerland.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U508	Yes, indeed, this norm provides for the provision of additional social support cushions also for pre-school teachers and sports teachers. And given that the ruling coalition found money for an increase in party funding, I asked for funding to ensure that teachers could retire and thus improve quality in education.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U509	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U510	Colleagues! I call for support for this proposal by Mrs Papule and Mrs Švekova, because I also took part in the discussion within the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) where we talked about the fiscal impact and how much would actually be available to those educators who could benefit from this support. When Mr Shadurski was a minister and was going to implement serious reforms, we jointly provided a safety cushion for teachers working in general education if they have lost their jobs as a result of the reforms and for older teachers working in special education institutions. Now - as Mrs Muižniece himself said - 11 teachers from a range of teachers who could even benefit from this support... This year has been supported and 9 from the previous year. We see a very small number of educators who, by their very nature, choose not to work and to receive this social support. Because it is not simple - there must be 25 years of age, there must be at least 3 years of age before retirement, and there are strong restrictions, stating that virtually nothing this man can do. Like such a retirement pension, you could say. And this proposal by Mrs Papule was intended to extend this support to the special... early childhood education teachers and sports educators, given that only a small part of this range of educators could also benefit from this support. And if, at present - also according to the information provided by the Ministry of Education and Science itself - out of 372 thousand, there are only 13 thousand used, we can already see that there is quite a reserve and we can afford it.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U511	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “Ju-li-ja!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U512	Dear colleagues, As far as I understand, the young Conservatives have not had many broad talks with Lizda before the elections, so at least from a letter from Lizda, it can be concluded that they have been talked to the ZZS, the ‘Conciliation’, Development/About! “All for Latvia!” -‘Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK’, but with new Conservatives - not. It is therefore likely that it is so easy to reject all proposals relating specifically to the retirement pensions of pre-school educators, special education educators and sports educators. I'll draw your attention... I understand that very many colleagues do not even know what this is about, but I will educate you. In 1993, therefore, retirement pensions for educators were suspended, and LIZDA repeatedly pointed out that this issue should be dealt with gradually by ensuring that three groups of educators - pre-school, special education and sports educators - were granted a retirement pension. In view of the fact that these groups are particularly subject to the highest burning rate, the draft law on Special Education Teachers, Sports Teachers and Pre-school Teachers’ Pension Act was adopted at the Saeima at first reading on 17 September 2015. However, no further progress has been made. The trade union emphasises in particular the lack of young teachers in the education sector, professional burning, which has a significant impact on the quality of education, as well as risks to the safety of children. LAISDA points out that, according to an agreement concluded before 13 New Unity and Development/About! , it was agreed that the provision of a social support programme for educators would be addressed. The agreement concluded with the National Association provides that the provision of service pensions or social support to teachers will be addressed. These agreements, honourable colleagues, must be followed up, and this proposal must be supported. I understand that the new Conservatives have not agreed anything with the PIZDA, so that you can also climb the platform so safely and do not support this proposal. But I'm also very surprised at the rhetoric you're dealing with. I have heard this many times, and I do not really understand that you think you can address the industry of your ministry and continue to fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U513	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U514	At a time when very large-scale reforms of the school network are planned in the country, I think we also need to take a responsible look at this issue, namely from social guarantees. I am very pleased that Mrs Muižniece is engaged in this debate... Really very well-founded and in place. I would like to emphasise that the potential number of people you have mentioned who could benefit from this provision does not necessarily mean that they will all use it. The law already in force... to the norm of the law already in force... There are very many people who could use it but not. Here is a request to extend this... with sports and preschool teachers... and I think that this should not significantly change what is already planned in the budget. Colleagues, I'm going to come up with an estimate of what it might be like -- I think nobody's here. But I don't want to believe that this could have anything to do with the budget and that the budget wouldn't have this here... if it would cause something to be expensive, it would not be able to prevent it. Once again, there has been a lot of talk about this, and some ministers have also said about it, expressing their opinion that older teachers should allow younger ones to come to their place and work. Well, this is actually also one of the proposals that could contribute if we supported it. I very much like this draft law, especially because there is a number of proposals that the Saeima has decided on themselves and thought about what they are doing and voted contrary to what the Cabinet of Ministers has decided. I am really happy about this, and I believe that Mrs Muižniece has also done a great deal of work there to do. I call on Members, too, to make this proposal, however, here in the Saeima's meeting room, unitedly... In a single vote, support and understand that these budgetary risks are not as high as the signal to pre-school teachers and sports teachers, who have a relatively high daily burden... exercise. These are educators who are 25 years old and over, they are not any young people... I call for this opportunity to give and assume the same responsibility for this vote and to support this proposal. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U515	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U516	Colleagues! Those Members who talked about this proposal before me have described their background and the discussion with the Latvian Education and Science Workers' Union, which is really for quite a number of years. But I want to say that, in this situation, it's really the most important thing... the most important words that should be heard are based on objective truth, not subjective desires. We're talking about three very specific... three strands of the teaching profession. For sports educators. We must have had a sports teacher or a trainer in school. If he's a young man... if he is strong and young, the students are usually interested in it. If this sports educator is a smarter person, then he can pass on his knowledge, but he can no longer give a personal example of a lot. In special education - there really is a very high risk of burning, because it is necessary to work with special learners, with non-traditional methods; there is practically every learner there is a special case. And it practically makes this educator be in a stressful situation every day, every hour, every second. And about pre-school students or pre-school and pre-school teachers. All of us who have children or who have been at pre-school age, we know how important this is, precisely to which educators they are facing - whether it is a teacher waiting for him to reach retirement age, or who, with his passion, can get our children, the young. I therefore call for a real thought to be given to this objective necessity and to these objective criteria. Because, of course, negotiations with trade unions are important, as I have already said, but that is not the case this time. This time, the main thing is that we are talking about three special categories of educators. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U517	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time. ( The box “July! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U518	Colleagues! I understand that Mrs. Šuplinsk had met... In the Council twice and had expressed support for this idea, but something suddenly happened and the social support programme was financed not by this initiative, but by the State Education Information System. Do you have any comments?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U519	I closed the debate. The Commission's opinion?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U520	In the Commission, proposal 4 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U521	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the proposal from Members Papule and Svelova! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U522	5. - the proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which provides for the exclusion of Article 1 of the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U523	Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U524	Colleagues! The proposals 5, 6, 7 and 8 that relate to the next proposals 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21 must probably be discussed immediately here. Here again we face the situation that the Cabinet of Ministers' opinion has been one, but this opinion has changed within the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It has to be said, however, that this is... The discussion was discussed in very detailed terms, including at the Education, Culture and Science Commission, with the participation of representatives of local governments. So that those of you who may not be familiar with this question understand what the proposals that I have referred to are about... The story is that until now its order was that there are minimum criteria, so-called minimum criteria, which are financed from the state budget in full at school when carrying out studies, that is, school curricula. If these criteria for the number of pupils are not met, then it is on the municipal shoulders - whether the municipality decides to continue such an education programme and, if necessary, to finance it so that its programme can work normally. The municipality then also places its resources. The arrangements included in these proposals are as follows: if these minimum criteria on the number of pupils are not met, the educational institution is generally denied the right to implement such educational programmes, regardless of whether its educational establishment is located somewhere in the country's remote location with a low population density, or whether there are other circumstances why... We're talking about the level of secondary education... why such an educational programme should be implemented where it is not possible to guarantee this minimum number of pupils. I am not saying that such a solution would not be possible. But it needs to be discussed with the Latvian Municipal Union. Representatives of the Committee on Education, Culture and Science confirmed that there was no such discussion. This is not a matter of urgency. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has therefore also decided that this proposal to exclude the relevant points should be supported, and has itself led such a proposal. This proposal also concerns the proposal 17-21 below, which deals with raising funding for such programmes. These points are also encouraged to be removed from the draft law. I call for support to be given to the withdrawal of both groups of proposals from the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U525	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U526	Colleagues! First of all, thank you for having supported at least one proposal from the opposition. We cannot say that the coalition colleagues have ignored anyone. Thank you for that. But to the Minister, I would also like to mention a few things. The Minister supported the next year's budget with quite a large amount of funding for the space sector, so a comparison from its own sector. You know that the missile is big, but its payload is very small at the very top of the missile, everything else is fuel. As the missile rises, it burns off and the excess parts fall away. Similarly, there are major reforms. In order to bring this major reform to space, there is an abnormal need for fuel, and the best fuel is cooperation partners. And that's how... I think one secret that a great reformer should remember. And I think this bill is an example that... It may be that you haven't yet understood this... because, in fact, there is no adequate consultation on how to provide transport services to children when their school is closed, to the nearest educational establishment, how to ensure that they are provided with a holiday, access to education of interest, how to agree on the maintenance of small schools where this is justified, and many other issues... There was no sufficient discussion. There was a wish to include in the budget package norms that would actually close more than 200 schools in Latvia. And that's not right. It is not the fuel that can implement major and good reforms.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U527	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U528	This is the proposal... and all the next ones that are supported are those that I am already talking about at the time of the budget transfer... and one of the main topics on which I have already drawn attention. And today I would like to thank Mrs Muižniece, the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, very much, who had listened to it before the first-reading support took place, and who had also listened to it from this platform... the dune and argued that these rules would be taken out. And thank you, colleagues, too, that you have listened to such an important issue and have supported the opposition proposal. In my opinion, this is one of the most important issues in this budget, which needs to be treated with the greatest responsibility. Colleagues! What doesn't bother me too much is that... We can see that there are two rows in those tables. One row contains, as the Saeima has decided, the other row contains, as the Cabinet of Ministers has decided. ( Internouncing call.) And yet the Cabinet has decided not to support this... withdrawal of the proposal. And yet it shows something. And I, like Dan Reizer-Ozola, call... the Minister for the Future of these Issues... I admit that it is only a matter of time that these amendments, in the normal way, in the appearance of the bill, will come to the Saeima and the Commission for Education, Culture and Science will have to talk about it... and the problem is not simple... but that they will do so together with their partners, because, if you want to change, the municipalities are the ones that set up educational institutions, those that maintain educational institutions. There is much to do there, there is a need to make some sort of changes, but it is important not to make any mistakes when making these changes. And it is important to listen to each other at a time when these issues are being moved further. This move, the way in which the government tried this question... and to receive the full mandate of the Saeima on such a crucial issue, I was not in favour, and I am glad that you, my colleagues, have listened to it all - and not only to me, but also to the many organisations that have addressed... and which pointed to the fact that this is not normal - the way in which this process is being driven. Colleagues! Thank you again.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U529	Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U530	I will just clarify why there may be differences between the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission decisions and those of the Cabinet of Ministers in these tables. In particular, with regard to proposals 4, 5, 6 and 7, it is that the amendment tabled by the Ministry (and therefore by my own person) was intended to amend Article 1 of the draft law in particular, and it is a legal technique and not any one or the other position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U531	I closed the debate. Is there anything to say on behalf of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U532	In the Commission, proposal 5 was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U533	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U534	Given that this proposal has been supported, the other three cannot be put to the vote because they are the same. 6. - the proposal by Members Papule and Svelova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U535	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U536	Supported by the Commission. The next one is the 7th in this bill and 400 at all. A further 400 left... which we need to consider. 7. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Same as 5. Not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U537	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U538	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Group of the Greens/Family Union, which also provides for the exclusion of Article 1 of the draft law. The Commission has been supported and not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U539	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U540	9. - A proposal by Anita Muižniece, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science. Partially supported, included 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U541	Members agree. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Vote. Please call me!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U542	Partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U543	We will vote in favour of 9. - the proposal submitted by Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science Muižniece! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - no, for - 80, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U544	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U545	Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U546	Colleagues! Yesterday we discussed amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child. When I came to the platform to talk about that draft law, I said that we would return to this subject when we look at the amendments to the Education Law. Because that's the norm of feeding grades 1-4... Children between 1 and 4 In class 10, catering is transferred from the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child to this law, and this is the exact place where the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission is intended to incorporate this provision. Yesterday I pointed out that its transposition from one law to another was almost complete. Only in this relocation process has the word “municipalities” disappeared, which means that the state budget funds that are intended for the catering of pupils of grades 1 to 4 and that have so far travelled first to the municipality and then from the municipality to the school... that perhaps there is another route for these funds or cash flows. Yesterday, I did not hear the answer to this question. No one came to answer. Is there really a new road, or simply this word for “municipalities” has disappeared here, or in those regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers that will be issued in accordance with this article, no matter the road... the money path will be provided through municipalities. Are you ready today to come and answer this question? I would very much like to hear an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U547	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U548	Dear colleagues, Your government has made it clear that you do not have any priority in these so-called holiday schools. There is one party here, which very much likes to teach everyone else with the fact that they are reading OECD research, all kinds of other research and, more generally, only guided by a policy based on evidence. Let me also quote some studies that point to a link between free holiday in schools and not only health but also academic performance of the student. First of all, I want to draw your attention to... I've just had a publication from... University of Pennsylvania. I think that it could be very well known to the head of government because he studied and received education at the University of Pennsylvania. Here, for example... So what's said here. That recently studied and acquired education. Here, for example, it is said that... In a recent interview with The Guardian Michael, a young man from New York University, said that in the U.S. Center for Disease Control and Prevention... recently published a study indicating that a link has been established between healthy student catering and academic performance, Mr. Kariņš. And one of those main mesidži is that healthier students are better at all levels of academic performance – both academic performance, behaviour, cognitive skills and attitudes. Go on. Colleagues! We all know that... and the head of government also points out that we want to move towards the Nordic countries. Finland is one of the Nordic countries. In Finland, since 1943 all students - absolutely all students! - free meals are offered at schools. Since 1943! Colleagues! Several studies also show that this is not a coincidence if... that after so-called PISA studies... I also ask for the speaking time to be joined up.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U549	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U550	Thank you. ... that according to the so-called PISA study in Finland has been one of the best education systems in the world for a long time. And so, colleagues, there's a connection to that, too... As I said, from the 40s in Finland all schools offer free meals. Moreover, as my colleague, Mr Schmit, recently said, food that is healthy and that improves these results. Another study, colleagues. This is from the University of California. It's a rather complicated methodology, too... find a link between student academic performance and free meals in schools. Let's go. Another study - of the three economists who studied in Sweden, let us say, the results of the... In the 1950s and 1960s... that in Sweden... Sweden is also, by the way, my fellow Members, a Nordic country... In Sweden, there is also free meals at school. And since Sweden collects very high-quality data... Colleagues, I will continue to tell you about this in the next proposal. We follow the evidence... ( Continues talking without a microphone. Substitution: ‘Exceeds time!’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U551	The debate is over. You've got a microphone turned off. ( Internouncing call.) The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Mrs. Svekov, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U552	Feeding for children... Clearly, all needs are not enough. That is understandable. But this is about priorities. What are the priorities of this coalition, which are at the same time Latvia's current priorities? Livestock farming? That could, of course, be the case. But then you shouldn't lie to your people, say something else in words. I invite you to be true. I don't want to set the sectors. But only when we have a head of government in our country, who will be able to create a common understanding of values and priorities in all, and when there is a clear long-term plan for the country, and not a "quick" document, will the Ministry of Agriculture not have to be offended about the financing of its industry and the regulation of its sectors. ( Internouncing call.) I will explain that the profits of the joint stock company “Latvia’s State Forests” amount to 93 million a year, of which 10 million the government decided to direct its livestock breeding books and genetic expertise. ( Internouncing call.) The state forests of Latvia are state riches, the richness of the Latvian people. Children are also richness and future of Latvia. For without a fed child there will be no future, no mind, no growth. If the government determines that the Ministry of Agriculture from state forests 10 million... if it is a priority, it must be said. Everyone knows which year for each sector will be the moment for the surplus funding. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U553	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U554	Colleagues! MEMBERS OF THE NEW Unity who sit next to us! I enjoyed Old Unity better because of the old Unity each... (Applause) Substitution: “Can be joined!” ) Old Unity each year... one year... found funds to increase public funding for children's holidays, first - for class 1, then 2, 3, 4, and planned to do so in the coming years, because I realized that eating children is not only a matter of quality education, but also of reducing health and inequality. THE NEW UNION, together with the other four coalition partners, removes the obligation to finance children's weekends from the state budget. From the Law on the Protection of Children's Rights – indeed, the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” says that if something is financed at all, only the first four classes will do so. Forget about 5, 6 and the others. THE NEW Unity, the old Unity, was cool! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U555	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U556	In fact, it is, if quite honestly, a total misconception that we have to discuss feeding children and children, students, pupils at school in grades 1 to 4... that we need to argue about such an elementary issue. Then Prime Minister Kariņš will go out and say, “We are approaching the Nordic countries.” It seems to me that here 100 Members, regardless of their colours - blue, green, red or whatever - should simply say together: "If we want to be in those Nordic countries, we have to feed all children at school, all children must have lunch at school from tomorrow." Not to debate here: there will be who will pay, who will not pay, what funds? Coalition, do you even understand which Nordic countries you are approaching? This is a question on which Prime Minister Kariņa should climb the platform and say: “I take personal responsibility, and from tomorrow, all children will be fed at school. From tomorrow, all children in school will not only be fed, but they will eat healthy food. And it will be the basis for a healthy new generation of us, our country's future." That's what Kariņš should say from the bar today at the Saeima, but he's tired, he wants to go home. He is not able to continue to climb into the troubling and make one good, courageous decision - other than what the officials have put in front of him. We are discussing holidays for Class 1-4. Where will there be resources? North country! We are approaching the Nordic country! This is what the New Unity, the New Conservative Party, the National Associations, Development/About! Government of “KPV LV” and “KPV LV”. That is their understanding of the Nordic countries. That's our Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U557	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U558	Colleagues, Proposal 10. A substantive proposal. From 2015... This Saeima... There have been many politicians, but there has been one policy that the Saeima has voted unanimously and has moved towards it unanimously, and there has not been a debate there: a coalition - the opposition. All of them went together - one class, two, three classes, four classes... Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma stressed that it is one of the best initiatives, one of the best policies. We're moving forward from year to year in a slow spirit, but now we're going - the government offers to kick! - such a wide-ranging step backwards, saying that it will now be the responsibility of local governments - to feed children in schools - but at the same time take 78 million from local governments' targeted grants. The question is, what money will they do? Local governments will try and ensure this. Do not give God that there will be any place where he will not do it! But it is quite clear that in a city such as Liepaja's oldest class students this service - the holidays - will be away. At the same time, we can clearly say that we will! - a number of places in schools... municipalities had planned to extend this much needed service beyond these four classes, to give more... give more to the different target groups. Now we're saying it's no longer... We are taking the first plateau, a big step in the direction to get rid of it all. Who has met for less than a year, Mr. Prime Minister? There was another Prime Minister of Unity and there were many more representatives of regional parties in the group. The political group itself was larger and all supported such initiatives. At the moment Adamovich himself is still there. And apparently he can't fight for the provision of the holiday in schools. Colleagues! Once again, this proposal increases inequality. It's... Two days already we are talking about inequality... that social programmes for circumcision. This is the most striking example. So why should you take a break with the children's weekend?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What have you consulted before making this decision? Is it really just yourself? And then you put it in front of the municipalities: “Go now, let’s go over you. You shall know who shall do this: we shall not do it: do it unto you. Colleagues! I call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U559	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. ( Prime Minister Kariņš: “I’m sorry, can I? ” ) I am sorry, the name of Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U560	Thank you. Dear President of the Saeima. It is really good that there is a debate on such a matter, because the question is, in fact, broader: how should we, let us say, organise social assistance in the future in the country. So far, we have had in principle: if we have provided for any benefit or assistance, then, as a country, we provide it flatly to all families, whether it be a richer family or a less prosperous family. And now it happens that if the amount of money for any form of benefit is limited, it would not be possible to provide this benefit to anyone who needs it, because we also partly cover those who do not need it. And in this option, the government offers the budget... That for these weekends... split between the state and the municipality... in fact the functions of municipalities. This is not the real dispute or the real debate. The real dispute or the real debate is that in the future, we can better target social benefits directly to those families who need it by refusing to provide this help to those families who can afford to... As the honourable Member has already reminded us, we are moving towards the Nordic version. The way in which benefits are actually provided in these prosperous countries - not equally for all, but for those who need it most. It is not included in this budget at the moment. This issue has not been discussed in this Saeima. I am referring to this as an issue that we need to look at, and we really need to think about how we as a society can better and smarter the means available to us at any time for any kind of social benefit... aimed at the benefit of those families who need it so that they may not be able to provide similar support to those families who, according to certain criteria, are rich enough to afford... This is a subject for discussion. I think quite rightly, we need to talk about how we will achieve this level of northern prosperity. But, in fact, it is not specifically addressed in this matter, but I think it is very good that the opposition is also raising this issue... I am in favour of us being a coalition with the Saeima... together think in the future how to further improve the system of such benefits. Thank you. ( A coalition’s applause.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U561	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U562	First of all, I do not agree that children should be distinguished by their parents ’ wealth. And this is about children, not about social benefits in general. That's one. The second thing I understood from you, Mr Prime Minister, is that you have not understood the general picture of this issue. This is not just a matter of social benefit. That question is a lot, a lot wider... That's what Vyacheslav Dombrovskis talked about, we've been talking about several times from this platform. It is, in fact, part of health and education policy - to provide everyone with the same opportunity, as they say - not only for the first four classes, but actually quite... The aim would be for the entire secondary school to provide organic, ecological food without additives of local origin, in order to care for human health and education. Because the food that a child receives is very direct in terms of how the brain functions later. We need to create a habit for our young generation also to choose ecological, biological local food later on. And that's the sadest thing... When I was at the Latvian Food Company Federation... I remember very well how this one was born, and with what kind of treacherous vows we made before that. The national association certainly remembers this, the FAO remembers it - how difficult it was to make these decisions and to achieve results. I remember one conversation. We often talked to farmers' organisations at the Latvian Food Company Federation about this being a fantastic opportunity - to arrange a little more legislation... in the sense of procurement, which was, in fact, very easy to deal with. Their range of kindergartens proves - just... the entry ‘organically grown’ is actually available for local organic food. There was a proposal to raise the lunch price from 1.42 euros, I think over 2 euros, so that not only organic fruits and vegetables could be obtained, but also meat. That was all far from going, and we had a conversation with farmers, and I say: "This is fantastic support for organic farming, because overall, if we counted everything that we can include there, including hospitals, forgive, prisons, the army, the rest, it has a budget of around EUR 200 million. It is an order that you can execute.” And these farmers said: “Hear, but don’t be that they take us and cast us as usual? It will not be that they will cancel all this?” And I said with deep conviction: “No, no, no! It can't be that way. We've been far away, but it's not going to be so crazy that they're going to ruin all this." It turned out that those farmers were right. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U563	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U564	Dear colleagues, When Mr. Kariņš entrusts his donkey with carrying this heavy burden, he probably says to his donkey: “I trust you to carry this burden, and it’s called “participation”.” The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola: Bravo! ) If we look at what the Ministry of Education and Science is talking about about on an openly accessible website, then again we come to the fate of the decision of 13 September. Again. Because "the review of the Ministry of Education and Science's budget for 2020 has repeatedly shown that the function of 24-hours provision is not specific to the overall activities of ISM, which is primarily responsible for ensuring the content, methodology and quality of education". And that's why... And that's why, not because Mr. Kariņš comes here and says that it is necessary to divide children, as in the Soviet Union there were separate shops for the army, currency shops and also... The children were also divided... So there are children who have lunch, and there are children who have to buy... That is probably what Mr. Karini wants: to return to the Soviet Union now. But, as we can see, this decision at the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers on 13 September has commissioned the Ministry to prepare and submit these specific amendments to the Children's Law as part of the budget package for the year 2020 (I do not know what lawyers in general do in the Ministry and government if they do not understand that they should not have tabled such amendments!) and the Education Act. And, you know, colleagues, savings from these measures... because, as we remember, on 13 September the task was to extend the fiscal space rather than to think about children and the reform of social benefits, as we are now told here... Blue wonders! By broadening this fiscal space, the savings from this "putting the burden on the donkey" are EUR 9 million - about EUR 9 million. On the other hand, teachers are lacking... from 1 September to raise the minimum wage... about 8 or 9 million are missing. But you haven't put that amount in. You are likely to have done so in order to provide teachers with this sense of security, so that they do not have to worry again about what will be in summer - whether you raise their salary or not. You've hidden that money somewhere again! Where will the money go, what do you save on school holidays? Where will it go?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U565	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U566	I call on the public to listen very carefully to what Krišjānis Kariņš said. He spoke of children's weekends as social benefits, although this is not a question of social benefits. It is the performance of a social function. Social benefits are already divided into different levels of income for the population and counted differently. In this particular case, it is just proof that our Prime Minister does not even really understand what the children's holiday is, where else is the Nordic countries! It's a little nuance that shines on every one of these premieres on the platform and talking about any issue. More about donkeys, sheep and mistakes, justifying your opinion, the premiere doesn't happen. Such a premiere needs to be changed!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U567	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U568	Yeah... Well, it is not a great joy that you have to criticise the Prime Minister so often. But you have to. Because, interestingly, which rich families are the Prime Minister talking about, if in Latvia each fifth family with children lives on the poverty line, if there are 40,000 people in Latvia who do not provide for their children, and if each third of the families with one parent lives on the poverty line?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Zālīte-Gross: “What is your advertising?” ) Which are the families to whom Mr. Karin wants to take off his holiday altogether? Which families, in the Prime Minister's opinion, should be reduced both on Saturdays and other forms of support from the State? Mr Kariņš said that new discussions are starting. Then he must first release the Minister for Welfare, who believes that children's holiday is the most targeted form of support for children, regardless of their family's financial situation.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U569	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U570	Let me repeat what was also said yesterday - that it will remain for the holiday students. And if a municipality allows to cancel the holiday, then that municipality has to take into account that people can go there and protest against that municipality (The Hall of Noise.) don't take care of your people. With regard to what Mr. Karin said... There I totally disagree with him because... But it is not currently included in the law... There should be no creation of what was in Latvia in the 1990s, when the holidays were provided only to the socially disadvantaged who had registered. ( The box “Yes! ”) Thank you very much. It unnecessarily divided children, caused discrimination against those who had registered as disadvantaged. At the same time, there were other children whose family income was perhaps even lower than those who had registered, could not afford to eat at school. With this proposal, which was put forward by the National Association, we prevented this discrimination and made sure that this division between children is discontinued. This programme must continue to be identical, as it has been so far, and not as a social aid measure for a small category of children.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U571	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U572	I do not really understand why the opposition is concerned. I personally loved the Prime Minister's speech because he proved two things. The first was the promise that our people would live better once again. The list of their people is set out in the Annex. And the other thing that he is absolutely far from real life. Why? I am not talking about the fact that holiday, especially for younger classes, is not only a social benefit, it is also an opportunity to reduce inequalities. It is also a guarantee that children from wealthy families will not get a sandwich with black caviar and will not eat it under a sole. Then there is a guarantee that they can get a healthy diet. But not just that. Why do I say that you are very far away from life? To prove that the family conditions of the child today are such... that he has been given love, permission to spend the weekend, he will need to bring to school every day a certificate that his parents live in the way they are. And it will not be possible here to do as with an inextricable progressive minimum - to show people once a year that they have overpaid... hasn't paid too much... has not received more than they are entitled to. Here you will need to do this every week when you pay for the holidays or for the organisation of the holidays. It's a purely technical thing. But it is humiliating for children and families. What you don't understand is that I don't understand.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U573	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U574	I'll answer Mr. Karins. According to him, children of grades 1-4 should be divided: who go to the cafe and who go to the restaurant. In my opinion, this is not the right distribution from the Saeima. But about this opportunity, flat for all families... we also partially cover those who do not need it. Highly honored Mr. Kariņš, if you hear this in the Saeima building somewhere, listen to the fact that in Latgale people live three times worse than in Riga. Three times as much as the average in the European Union. With this budget, we are removing 15 million from Latgale. The target grant for Latgale in particular is reduced by 15 million. Colleagues, with regard to whether we are looking flat or flat, 1 billion in personal income tax is given reliefs to everyone in a row, without distinction - it is necessary not to... 1 billion in reliefs. We're not looking there! But to the children's weekend, we're taking... look at the first to save something and ask local authorities to finance it further.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U575	Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U576	Hello again! It seems important to me to remind you that this proposal is about delegating to the Cabinet of Ministers the procedure for using state budget funds. The conceptual discussion was at first reading and, in my opinion, it is also important to say that this factor - which is about possible discrimination and child sorting - does not completely withstand criticism, because already now, with technological solutions, it is done in schools so that children do not even know whether anyone pays or does not pay for lunch. There are chip cards, everything is adjustable, no one has to show by his finger who is the recipient of the holiday and who is - no. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reiznieces-Ozola and dep. A. Gobzem’s intermediate names.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U577	The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U578	I don't know what you call it, but... If we call things the essence of, we eliminate that program. It was not perfect, it had to be adapted for a long time, and it had to be adapted to bring us to ecological, organic food, but now with this step, which may seem to be technical, its program is closed. I could agree with everything John Dombrava said. All except one thing, that nothing will change in particular, and if a municipality does not do so, people will be able to protest... No, no... Of course... But if those protests are taken into account by the municipality in the same way as you do by the health care workers, then there will probably be no particularly great point in that, right?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U579	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U580	You can, of course, set up a system in each of the schools to be those chippings. But to get to the top, parents need to get low - income or poor - status. Is any of you... knows the procedure that happens, and that there are parents who simply fail to submit documents in good time? And if your parents have no status, what will your child do? Perhaps someone could also tell your Prime Minister what kind of system is in Latvia so that a person can prove that his income is not enough. Once again: this is a question of the rights of the child - of the rights of the child! You are currently talking about something that affects the adult world. And some people in this adult world really have more illusions than the idea of real life.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U581	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U582	Dear colleagues, Taxes and benefits - this is the way in which the state negotiates with its citizens. And we have discussed this several times. If a state believes that it is necessary to support families, then the state is doing everything to make families feel good in the country. The more children are born in families, the better. The country simply says "Thank you", in all possible ways in cooperation. Here you offer to truly sort families - who should not be - into the middle layer of poverty and humiliating those you want to give this help. But if the donkey who's loaded a lot... if it's called an installation, it's still an ass.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U583	The speaking time is over. Name to Member Aldim Adamovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U584	Hello, colleagues! I would like to explain to Mr Wuzana that what he asked for... Where is it stated that the municipality has to finance at least half of the funding granted by the State? This is the 23rd proposal in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U585	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U586	In the Commission, this proposal, 10, was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U587	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - The proposal submitted by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 58, no, 30, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U588	11. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U589	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U590	We have already debated a great deal on this issue. Evening has already come today, and I must say that it is perhaps time for new confidence that participation and cooperation between municipalities and the state on this issue are very good. That is also what this proposal is about. The Minister has already informed yesterday that there are very many municipalities, in fact the majority, which on a voluntary basis, without a state task, provide holiday for classes 5-9 from their budgetary resources. So here we go. Then we offer: if the state wants to share funding for grades 1-4, then the state could participate as friendlyly with state budget funding in cases where the municipality provides holiday for grades 5-9 on a voluntary basis. Then we could really talk about the fact that the service as a whole will not decrease. Because we understand quite well: if the state is currently putting the burden of funding on the shoulders of municipalities, then part of the municipalities will either reduce the amount of support for grades 5-9 or at least will not be able to extend this support to those children in the senior classes. I call on you to participate, to cooperate in a spirit of solidarity on this issue, especially the National Association. Prove that you are not former guardians of demographics!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U591	Colleagues, before continuing the debate, 10 Members - Feldman, Dzintars, Latkovskis, Stein, Pucens, Strike and others - ask for an extraordinary meeting of 13 November to shorten the speaking time on all the proposals for draft laws in accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 65 and the third paragraph of Rule 65 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, determining for each speaker one minute for the first time and one minute for the second time. ( Interface: “Ooo! ” ; dep. A. Gobzem: “Mr. Thank you!” Prolonged applause, ovation. Depp. A. Gobzem: “ Bravo! Repeat!” ) “About” has applied to speak to Krišjānis Feldmans. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U592	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues! It's six hours since we're stuck here today at 6 p.m.... (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U593	Colleagues, let me talk. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer. Thank you very much. Noise is restless.) Let's wait. Let's have fun! ( Intercretion: “Repeat! Repeat!” ) Now let me talk about? So "for" - Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U594	Thank you for your hands. So. Today, at 18.00, it will take 24 hours for this budget package to be examined. 84 proposals have been examined, representing about 17 percent of them. With this speed, we need eight more working days to complete the budget review. We are paid for this by the taxpayers, so it is a disrespect for the taxpayers. In this respect, is it not adequate: to limit the time of the debate to one minute, by giving a second speech once again one minute? Given that several hundred proposals still need to be considered. I think that this is adequate and, despite the fact that the Kleptocrates coalition in opposition is trying to delay budget adoption at all costs, I can say: the budget will be adopted, the country will continue to work and develop. I call for this proposal to be supported. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U595	Please do not use sound amplifiers. It's denied. Technical (Dep. A. Gobzem is in the hand of the speaker: “Mr. Mūrniece! Mrs. Moorier... “) a break. If you use sound amplifying equipment (Dep. A. Gobzems: “It is a similar object to a sound amplifying device.” ), it will be denied. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Discard this Saeima! Release this coalition! Forgive them all! Forgive Strick! Forgive me! First - Pavilut, second - Neighbours, third - Dzintari, fourth... and Karini, go ahead! I'm sorry!’ (See the box below.) You were not given a name yet. So there is a proposal. Are Members opposed to this proposal - to shorten speaking time? There is no objection. So, “There’s! Yes!’ )... However, there are objections. Please call me! We will vote for the extraordinary meeting of 13 November to shorten the speaking time for all proposals in all draft laws on the agenda of the sitting (in accordance with Rule 65(1) and Rule 65(3) of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure) by determining for each speaker one minute for the first time and one minute for the second time! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 51, for - 4 and for - 1. So the speaking time is shortened. ( Milestones.) So we are continuing the debate. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Members of the SASCAN/ZZS Group, as well as some non-group Members, leave the Chamber. The coalition Members are applauding. Depp. J. Malt: “Registration of the formation!” ) We shall continue to examine the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U596	11. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U597	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U598	12. - the proposal by Members Papule and Svelova. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U599	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U600	13. - A proposal by Anita Muižniece, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U601	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U602	I note that I wanted to debate proposal 12. Is that possible?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U603	No, it's gone.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U604	No, no... All right.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U605	So Members support proposal 13.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U606	To support this, proposals 14 and 15 cannot be put to the vote because they are the same. 14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U607	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U608	Nation, wake up! Take this Saeima, take the Strik! Uncompromising lies! Drink, drive these people who will commit a crime against a nation that restricts democracy in the black of the night! Get a driver who doesn't understand anything about the budget! Can you catch these people? Wake up and get up. This is your time, Latvian society! Take the cheats, the robbers, who will plunder you right away and pass the law on party financing seven times... In the blackness of the night as all the crimes... all are made in the blacks of the night. Can you catch these people? Remember what they are, and you journalists film them! Film them and show who the biggest criminals of Latvia are! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U609	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U610	Yeah. Regarding this proposal, four years ago, I had four visits to Ainārs Šleser, a Bible jury. — Dep. A. Gobzem: “This, by the way, is mine! Give me money for your mobile and car!” ) that he doesn't own a port. Yeah. So please, Mr. Gobzem, take your Bible, I brought it to you. Take it for you to go well in your life. If you're going, go. ( Internouncing call.) You said that if you fell into opposition, you would leave the country. Now you're saying you're gonna leave the sitting. Go, please! Get out of here. Take the Bible and go away. ( Internouncing call.) Consequently, I call on the 14th proposal to support... as the commission has also seen... Thank you. ( The internouncings, the dep. A. Gobzem’s leaving the Sitting Hall.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U611	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U612	In the Commission, this proposal has been supported and cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U613	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U614	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Kucin's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U615	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U616	16. - the proposal by Members Papule and Svelova. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U617	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U618	Okay. 17. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U619	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U620	As a result, 18, 19, 20 and 21 cannot be put to the vote because they are the same. 18. is a proposal from the Education, Culture and Science Commission. Supported... on the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U621	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U622	19. - the proposal by Members Papule and Svelova. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U623	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U624	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U625	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U626	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U627	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U628	22. - the proposal by Members Papule and Svelova. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U629	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U630	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal by Anita Muižniece, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science. The Commission shall be supported by a corresponding change in the numbering of the following articles.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U631	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U632	25. - Educational...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U633	24!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U634	I'm sorry. 24. - the proposal by Members Papule and Svelova. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U635	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U636	25. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Commission-supported...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U637	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U638	... and not put to the vote, because 17 has already been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U639	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U640	Also 26. - A proposal by Anita Muižniece, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U641	Members support the opinion of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U642	There are also 27, 28 and 29 votes, as 17 have already been supported. But 27 is the proposal of the MEPs, Papule and Svekov. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U643	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U644	28. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U645	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U646	29. - Mr Valaina's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U647	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U648	30. - the proposal of MEPs Evija Papule and Lubova Svekova. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U649	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U650	31. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U651	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U652	32. - the proposal by Members Papule and Svelova. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U653	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U654	33. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U655	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U656	34. - the proposal by Members Papule and Svelova. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U657	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U658	35. - the proposal by Members Papule and Svelova. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U659	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U660	No vote, but the debate...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U661	So 35. The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U662	Colleagues! I tried to understand why the opposition chose to go away right now. Well, obviously I finally... I finally got it. Yesterday, they made 25 proposals to go home in seven because they believed that apparently more than seven Saeima could not work. And again today they wanted to go faster at home, six shouted as usual, and were gone. And finally we have found the reason why they have decided not to continue working today. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Latkovskis: “Don’t want to work!” ) Well, that's how, unfortunately, you don't want to work. Well, let's work without them. Thank you, colleagues. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U663	I closed the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U664	35. - the proposal by Members Papule and Svelova. There is no support and no vote in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U665	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U666	36. - the proposal by Members Papule and Svelova. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U667	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U668	37. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Commission-supported...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U669	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U670	... and not put to the vote, because 17 has already been supported, as have the next two. 38. - A proposal by Anita Muižniece, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U671	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U672	39. - the proposal by Members Papule and Svelova. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U673	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U674	40. - Mr Valaina's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U675	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U676	41. - The opinion of the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U677	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U678	42. - Group of the Greens/Farmers Union, think...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U679	Proposal for a Regulation of the
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U680	... Proposal for a Regulation of the The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U681	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U682	43. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U683	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U684	44. - the proposal of MEPs Evija Papule and Lubova Svekova. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U685	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U686	We have examined all the proposals. I call for support for the second, final reading of the draft law on amendments to the Education Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U687	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Education Act at second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 56, against and refrains - not. The law is passed. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties), second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U688	Colleagues! We shall continue with the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties). I would like to point out that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission gave everyone the floor to discuss. This draft law is essential for strengthening our country's democracy and for the development of parliamentaryism. A total of 37 proposals have been received. 1. - the proposal of Members Strike, Dzintara, Latkovska, Pavluta and Pucen. Partially supported, included 3. - The Cabinet's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U689	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U690	2. - The proposal of the Minister of Justice of the Prime Minister. Partially supported, included 3. - The Cabinet's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U691	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U692	3. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U693	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U694	4. - the proposal of Members Strike, Dzintara, Latkovska, Pavluta and Pucen. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U695	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Juta Stricky.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U696	In fact, this proposal is for one natural person to be able to donate not 50 minimum monthly salaries to a political party but 20 more. It's related to the joint... common position that, the more a party gets from the country... the more public funding, the less they will be able to attract private donations... And less one person will be allowed to... One... donating to a political party. In addition, other proposals concern the reduction of donations to political parties in order to reduce the impact of natural persons on political party funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U697	Name to Member Ainars Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U698	Colleagues! If we were simply to increase the amount of support for parties and their work from the state budget, then it would be pointless if we did not change this limit, which is laid down by law... can be donated by private individuals. At the moment it has a minimum wage of 50, that is, about... more than 21 thousand. It is a large sum enough for anyone who donates such a sum to try something to influence the party's decisions, let us say. What we offer is more than twice as much - 20 minimum monthly wages, that is, eight and a half thousand. I think this is the right way to go. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U699	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U700	In the Commission, this proposal is supported, 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U701	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U702	5. - the proposal from Member Svekov. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U703	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U704	6. - the proposal from Members Stepanenko, Scrapie, Liepaja, Gobzem and Schmidt. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U705	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U706	7. - The proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers, which intends to make the paragraphs of the first paragraph of Section 7.1, in the following form: 4.5 euro for each vote received in the elections of the last Saeima, 0.5 euro for each vote received in the elections of the last municipal council... and EUR 0.5 per vote received in the last European Parliament elections. This concerns the funding of the state budget, how it will be directed towards political parties.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U707	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U708	Dear Members, Unfortunately, these amounts will not change much, and my previous view is that we have much more important... and more important things in order of priority, which should be supported. It's the same home system, the same medicine, the same education system. Consequently, my personal view is that this is an amazing decision at the moment and we must act in the same way as Members' salaries... we freeze further until a certain time. I therefore call for this proposal not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U709	Colleagues, we have a break. Please call me! I request the registration of the presence of Members. Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U710	Not registered: Valery Agešins, Uldis Augulis, Jānis Adamsons, Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla, Raimonds Bergmanis, Boris Cilevičs, Gundars Dauge, Sergey Dolgopolovs, Vjačslavs Dombrovskis, Jānis Dūklavs, Ilmars Dūritis, Aldis Gobzems, Inga Goldbergs, Inese Ikstena, Janina Yalinska, Nikolai Cabanov, Andrejs Klementyev, Ivan Clementyev, Armand Krauze, Jānis Krišāns, Edgars Kucins, Maris Kučinskis, Linda Liepiņa, Regina Ločmele-Lunova, Vladimir Nikonovs, Vitalijs Orlovs, Evijs Papule, Igors Pimenovs, Dana Reizniece-Ozols, Ivans Ribukums, Artur, Rīgas Smuks Smukumskis, Jurbūdiņš, Jurbādzins and Lube-Sviņš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U711	Interruption until 6.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U712	Honourable Members! Prime Minister! Ministers! We're continuing the Saeima sitting. On the agenda - draft law on amendments to the Law on Financing of Political Organisations (Parties). We are continuing the debate. On the 7th proposal, the name of the Minister for the Interior, Sandis Ģirgens.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U713	Dear colleagues, However, I would like to ask a rhetorical question: how much does democracy pay and the openness of political parties, organisations? Is it really a question of four five million euros? I don't think so. In my opinion, this is not, and cannot be, a matter of money at all, because independence, fairness and openness cannot and cannot be bought for money and fairness, openness cannot be valued in monetary terms. I have also indicated in the debate before that this is not the right time and place for now... at a time when there is a need to help both teachers, doctors, home affairs workers and others... so that we do not actually channel this amount to them. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I would also like to point out that we are already...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U714	Minister, the time for the debate... So are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U715	Dear colleagues, For us, the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties) already provides that any natural person can donate income to a political organisation in the amount of not more than 30 per cent and the party can create an unlimited number of its members... and also convince people to support parties that... In general, there could also be a larger amount. So what the funding is available for the party - that's just our... work itself. On the one hand, I also understand this argument that it could build the independence of political parties. Yeah, maybe, but the question is, when? Is it really the right time today? I believe that this idea, the initiative, of the President and of the New Conservative Party, is not possible at this time. We have other, much more important priorities. Dear colleagues, We have quite a... very (Interior: “Time! ”) )... regulation on party financing, so I am calling for this initiative not to be supported at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U716	Mr. Girgen, now is the time! We voted for the time of the debate ourselves. Name of Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U717	Hello, colleagues! I would like to ask you to understand that it is time for this amendment. 20 years ago Latvia was already diagnosed by the World Bank - it was about high risk... the State of the grabbing. For 20 years we have been trying to limit the impact of private money on politics. For 20 years we have done this through salt. Non-governmental organisations, while not responding to law enforcement, have counted party money themselves, have achieved compliance with the law as well. Throughout these 20 years, journalists, investigating journalists, have given us an insight into what private money means in politics. If we remember the lists of scholarships, those coffers that went down in the Saeima cafe...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U718	Mrs Steel, I have to say, the time has passed for the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U719	Could I bring together, please, the time of the debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U720	Are there any objections to merging the time of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U721	Okay. The family's strayed cops... We've had "Rīdzene" conversations, we've had today as well... we are still looking at how journalists link the municipal cash flows... Non-legislative... to the cashiers of the batch, is currently investigated by KNAB. We have tried to limit the unlegitimate cash flow, but we have not been able to allow legitimate cash flows to support the parties all the time. This law will do so, we create a legitimate basis for party activities, alongside us imposing strict restrictions on private cash flows. And in the discharge... We will also strengthen the capacity of KNAB, support NGOs under their supervision and support the media to play a watchdog role. I call for support. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U722	Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U723	Colleagues! My colleague Vita Anda Steela has already reminded me of the relationship between private funding and oligarchs in the past. I think this is the moment when we do not have to be populists. We have seen quite a lot of examples of populism in this House, mainly from the opposition. I think we should really take a decision once on the substance, thinking not about whether it will be immediately popular, but whether it will leave a lasting positive impression on the health of Latvia's political environment. And we know that this is a way to make this environment healthy in the long term. I would ask for a combination of time, if there are no objections.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U724	There are objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U725	One of the things the parties will be able to afford if this state funding is available (inter-descriptions. Depp. I. Riena: “The next term needs it!” ), it is an opportunity to raise the analytical capacity of parties to make decision-making more qualitative. And it looks like we need it for many, not just for lots of positions. The second thing that is needed is the financing of those parties that have reached the 2 percentage points threshold but have not reached the 5 percentage points threshold. If we do this funding now, they will not receive it either. And we need an improvement in the policy environment now, not in three years. I call for support. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U726	Name to Member Raiv Dzintar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U727	Colleagues! I would like to remind you that the proposal on which we are currently discussing is, in fact, merely a technical clarification, whereby the words 'previous elections' are replaced by 'last elections'. I therefore call for support for this technical proposal, which is to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U728	The name to the Member Atm Lejny.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U729	Colleagues! Well, of course, we need to accept it. When Estonia accepted it - long ago, long ago. They also accepted a long time ago, a long time ago a zero declaration. How long we went with a zero declaration. And now, how long we have been following Estonia, Finland, Sweden, Germany, all the countries that are in Europe. Will it be 20 years again? I call for support - 'for'! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U730	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U731	7. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U732	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - The Cabinet's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 52, it's against 1, it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U733	8 / 8 - the proposal of Members Strike, Dzintara, Latkovska, Pavluta and Pucen. Supported, included 9. - The Cabinet's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U734	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Juta Stricky.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U735	This proposal is for funding to be paid twice a year. And here is a good news for any Latvian citizen, because politics will no longer be an opportunity for rich entertainment or increase of millions of oligarchs. A person who has no savings, a large income, or a million will now be able to cover the expenses that the office needs for advertising. It won't be that he... The only thing he'll do is get hundreds of thousands at home... paid “Daily Business” leaf, issued by Gobzem “ father” Shlesser and hopes to see him as Prime Minister. Everyone will now be able to go to politics and know that he will compete on equal terms with all those who are currently participating in politics. The sooner this happens, the better it will be for all of us. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U736	I closed the debate. How do I understand that the speakers do not call for a vote and the opinion of the support committee? Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U737	Now it's 9, huh? 9. - The Cabinet proposal provides that payments will be made twice a year - by 15 January and 15 July. After the elections to the Saeima, the municipal council or the European Parliament, the Office shall recalculate the financing of the state budget provided for in paragraphs 2 and 3 of paragraph 1 of this Article, taking into account the results of elections to the Saeima, the municipal council or the European Parliament, and shall pay it from the following calendar year. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U738	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U739	Okay. 10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of a member of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice, Bordan: “The state budget financing provided for in paragraph 2 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall not be granted by votes cast on the list of candidates submitted by electoral associations or two or more registered political parties in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Law on Elections of the City Council and the District Council of the Republic which have not joined a registered political party association.” The Commission supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U740	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U741	11. - the proposal by Member Lubova Svekov. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U742	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U743	12. - Member Stepanenko, Scrapie, Liepaja, Gobzem, Schmidt's proposal. The Commission is not supported, not put to the vote, because 11 has already been supported... not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U744	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U745	13. - The proposal of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice, provides that the refusal, suspension or suspension of the financing of the state budget may, if “the political organisation (party) has been found to have violated the provisions of Article 7.4 of this Law, illegally using the funding of the state budget allocated to it in a given year in the amount of more than EUR 30 000, and the decision on the transfer of illegally spent state funds to the state budget has entered into force for one year”. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U746	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U747	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Stepanenko, Scrapie, Liepaja, Gobzem, Schmidt's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U748	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U749	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Stepanenko, Scrapie, Liepaja, Gobzem, Schmidt's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U750	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U751	16. - The proposal of Members Strike, Dzintara, Latkovska, Pavļuta, Pucena. Partially supported, included 18. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U752	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U753	17. - The proposal of a Member of the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, Bordan. Partially supported, included 18. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U754	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U755	18. - The proposal of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) provides that “an association of political organisations (parties) to which state budget funding has been granted may allocate it to a political organisation (party) that is part of it, by transferring it to a separate account opened by a political organisation (party) with a credit institution registered in Latvia, provided that the political organisation (party) has been part of a political organisation (party) association when standing in the elections to the last Saeima”. This proposal, the Commission proposal, has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U756	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U757	19. is the proposal of Members Stepanenko, Sprūde, Liepāja, Gobzem, Schmidt. Partially supported, included 21. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U758	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U759	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The Cabinet's proposal. Partially supported, included 21. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U760	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U761	21 is the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which provides that “a political organisation (party) shall submit to the Office for the Prevention and Combating of Corruption the documents justifying the use of state budget funding once a year in accordance with the regulations established by the Cabinet of Ministers”. The Commission supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U762	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U763	22. - Member Stepanenko, Scrapie, Liepaja, Gobzem, Schmidt's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U764	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U765	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Stepanenko, Scrapie, Liepaja, Gobzem, Schmidt's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U766	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U767	24. - The Cabinet's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U768	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U769	25. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U770	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U771	26. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by 32. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U772	Let us start a debate. Name to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U773	Dear Members of the Saeima! Ma'am! Honourable Members! As several Members have said, this law on party financing is, in my opinion, important for strengthening democracy in our country. Because, as we see, in many countries basic money has a major impact on policy. So the question is, where does this money come from? So far, in our country, money for political parties has mainly come from the population. Often people who are cash enough to donate are generous enough to political parties. And it gives a disproportionate influence to some non-political individuals in a democratic system, and it gives some priority and leverage to their views, taking precedence over the rest of the country's population. For the rest of the European Union, this issue has long been addressed by the fact that political parties are financed from public money, i.e. from the state budget or from taxpayers in general. And that... the provision laid down by this law is, in fact, a similar provision to that in the rest of Europe... introduce also in Latvia. And that means that, from a monetary point of view, they are taxpayers in general who will influence the activities of political parties, not too many individuals, because here too, in my opinion, a number of good amendments to the law are limited... the receipt of public money limits the ability of private donors to donate. So there's a limit on how much money you can get. This money has already been cut off once... its norm is gradually introduced, so not everything is at once, and this is... It is a norm that is not introduced because it is popular or unpopular. It is being implemented because it has been necessary for a long time. On the edge, observers and commentators from our European and non-European organisations have long proposed that such a provision could reduce the impact of individual money on policy decision-making. And with the adoption of this law, we will have strengthened democracy in our country also for future generations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U774	The name is the Minister of Finance Janis Reirs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U775	Madam President, Colleagues! I'm very brief. I won't use it all the time - 59 minutes. So two things I'd like to say. The first thing is, either too early or too late or otherwise. I think it is too late, but it must be accepted. Because the situation was very similar, as Mr. Leienny said, about the zero declaration... zero declarations. I led the Budget and Financial (Tax) Committees directly when it was adopted with a 20-year delay. It is clear that some assessment could have been made by the State Revenue Service. There were also personal audits as a result of these declarations. But it is clear that this was a very, very late case. Here I think it is necessary. And an example for us is Estonia. For us today, yesterday, last night, every day both the Saeima's meeting room and the public say: in Estonia it's, in Estonia, this, in Estonia, it's, in Estonia, this. Why? Because they had already introduced funding in the 1990s and they had virtually no such major problems, and there I really followed. Anyone in the Baltic Assembly knows what is happening in Estonia, which is happening in Lithuania, and its political culture and political environment vary considerably. And Lithuania also took these steps four to five years ago, and this political culture changed there, and I think we will have the same thing. It is also very positive that it is not extra money, it is money that will replace private funding because... Thank you for those proposals that reduce funding for private individuals very strongly, restrict funding, and also for those proposals that provide the KNAB with additional funding and control under the legislation. I am asking for support for this draft law. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U776	Name of Minister for the Interior Sandis Girgens. You have the opportunity to combine the two times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U777	While Mr. Reira spoke, Mrs. Strike came to me and said: "You are the Minister of the Interior and follow discipline!" But I have my own point of view. We have not agreed on this view in the coalition Treaty, and the new Conservative Party will not dictate to the Minister of the Interior what he has to say or what he is not to say. I think here - here, here! - I have the right to express my views. The nation has the right to receive their payment, what they are entitled to, and these four five million do not at any time guarantee the impartiality of political parties. Second. Please... It is necessary to lay down the law of lobbying so that it is clear to everyone who comes to political parties with what initiative and what interests they want to pursue accordingly. And if a person has illegal income, you must report to the law enforcement authorities for the initiation of criminal proceedings and such persons must be held liable by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U778	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U779	Dear Members, We all swear to fulfill our responsibilities in good faith and with the best of our consciousness. And to comply with this rule that we are... This oath has been made by the Latvian people, it does not need four million euros, it simply needs to do what we have sworn.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U780	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U781	26. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported by the Commission and included 32. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U782	Are Members asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U783	Partly supported. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U784	Does not ask, agrees with the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U785	27. - the proposal from Member Svekov. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U786	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U787	28. - Member Stepanenko, Scrapie, Liepaja, Gobzem, Schmidt's proposal. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U788	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U789	29. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 32. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U790	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U791	30. - The proposal of Members Strike, Dzintara, Latkovska, Pavļuta, Pucena. Partially supported, included 32. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U792	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U793	31. - The Cabinet's proposal. Partially supported, included 32. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U794	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U795	And 32. - the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which lays down transitional provisions... the entry into force of the norms, as well as the fact that ‘the debts for which the political organisation (party) did not pay within 90 days from the date on which the political organisation (party) had to account for the supplier of goods or services and did not do so before 31 December 2019, the political organisation (party) shall bear the specific article and parts thereof within three years of the entry into force of this Law’. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U796	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U797	33. - the proposal from Member Svekov. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U798	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U799	34. - the proposal from Member Svekov. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U800	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U801	35. - Mr Valaina's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U802	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U803	36. - Member Stepanenko, Scrapie, Liepaja, Gobzem, Schmidt's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U804	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U805	37. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U806	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U807	Colleagues! I call for the second final vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U808	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second final reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties). Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 53, against - 3, refraining from - 1. The law is passed. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Energy Act’, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Rihards Kozlovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U809	Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission discussed amendments to the Energy Law at its meeting. In total, three proposals have been received. In fact, all three are editorial proposals. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U810	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U811	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U812	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U813	And 3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U814	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U815	Please, colleagues, support amendments to the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U816	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Energy Act at second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -56, for -no, for -1. The law is passed. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Energy Efficiency Act’, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U817	Colleagues! Five proposals were received for the draft law on "Amendments to the Energy Efficiency Act". 1. - The proposal by Miezaiņš, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U818	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U819	2. - The proposal by Miezaiņš, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U820	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U821	3. - The proposal by Miezaiņš, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U822	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U823	4. - The proposal by Miezaiņš, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U824	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U825	And 5. - The proposal by Miezaiņš, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. Supported by the Commission. Please support...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U826	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U827	Please support the draft law at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U828	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Energy Efficiency Act, second, final, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft Act “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U829	Amendments to the Electricity Market Law - nine proposals have been received. 1. - The proposal by Miezaiņš, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U830	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U831	2. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U832	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U833	3. - The proposal by Miezaiņš, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U834	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U835	4. - The proposal by Miezaiņš, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U836	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U837	5. - the proposal from Members Stepanenko, Scrapie, Liepaja, Gobzem and Schmidt. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U838	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U839	6. - Mr Valaina's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U840	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U841	7. - Mr Valaina's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U842	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U843	8 / 8 - Mr Valaina's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U844	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U845	And nine. - Mr Valaina's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U846	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U847	Please support the second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U848	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market” at second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 56, against and refrains - not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Deep of the Land”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U849	In the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Deep of the Land”” was reviewed for the second, final, reading. Four proposals were received for the second reading. 1. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission has partially supported and included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U850	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U851	2. is the proposal of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, which requires the Cabinet of Ministers to set a task to develop the issue of a hydrocarbon licence... extraction... the conditions for monitoring and for the withdrawal of the licence. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U852	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U853	3. - a proposal by the Legal Bureau to supplement the transitional provisions with a time limit by which the Cabinet of Ministers is to draw up these provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U854	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U855	4 and the Legal Office's proposal to improve the terminology used. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U856	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U857	The Commission supported the draft law as a whole for guidance and consideration at the Saeima meeting. I also ask and call for support in plenary, so I ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U858	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Deep Ones of the Land” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 55, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Rihards Kozlovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U859	Colleagues! The budget and financial (tax) commission reviewed amendments to the law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia”. A total of 13 proposals were received. 1. - The proposal of a Member of the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U860	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U861	2. - The proposal of a Member of the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, Bordan. The Commission is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U862	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U863	3. - The proposal of a Member of the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U864	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U865	4. - The proposal of a Member of the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, Bordan. The Commission is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U866	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U867	5. - The proposal of a Member of the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U868	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U869	6. - The proposal of a Member of the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U870	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U871	7. - The proposal of a Member of the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U872	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U873	8 / 8 - The proposal of a Member of the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U874	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U875	9. - The proposal of a Member of the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U876	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U877	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of a Member of the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U878	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U879	11. - The proposal of a Member of the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U880	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U881	12. - The proposal of a Member of the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U882	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U883	The budget... 13. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U884	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U885	Please, colleagues, support amendments to the law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia” at second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U886	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia” at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 56, against and refrains - not. The law is passed. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Law on Scientific Activities’. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Rihards Kozlovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U887	The budget... At the meeting, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined proposals for second reading in the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Scientific Activities. A total of 15 proposals have been received. And in fact, they all relate to the fact that the Latvian Science Council is transformed into a direct management body and therefore... for certain functions. So, as I said, 15 proposals. 1. is the proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science Muižniece. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U888	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U889	2. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission. This meant that the Council was, in fact, under the authority of the Prime Minister. On the other hand, we supported the fact that this council is under the supervision of the Minister of Education and Science. In the Commission, proposal 2 is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U890	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U891	3. - The proposal of the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union, of a similar nature. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U892	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U893	4. - the proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science Muižniece. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U894	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U895	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission shall be supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U896	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U897	6. - the proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science Muižniece. Overall, support has been given to changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U898	Please turn on the microphone for Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U899	I have a request for a separate vote on proposal 6, with a separate vote on Article 2, because it is identical to the proposal of the Bureau of Legal Affairs, and then 4. ... the exclusion of Articles 4, 5 and 8 of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U900	So there is a proposal to split this proposal 6 - first to separate, to exclude Article 2 of the draft law, actually this... we have already supported such a proposal... and then vote in favour of Articles 4, 5 and 8, i.e. exclusion of these articles. Do Members have objections? Members have no reservations.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U901	7. - Legal...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U902	Wait one... One moment!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U903	What are we doing... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U904	So... We have already decided to exclude Article 2 of the draft law, but there is a proposal to vote in favour of the exclusion of Articles 4, 5 and 8. Please call me! We will vote for the exclusion of Articles 4, 5 and 8 of the draft law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision... Consequently, the proposal has been supported and Articles 4, 5 and 8 of the draft law have been excluded.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U905	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U906	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U907	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U908	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U909	9. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U910	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U911	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U912	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U913	11. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U914	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U915	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U916	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U917	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U918	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U919	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science Muižniece. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U920	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U921	And 15. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U922	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U923	Therefore, colleagues, please vote and support the amendments to the Scientific Act at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U924	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Scientific Activities, second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 56, against and refrains - not. The law is passed. Draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2020, 2021 and 2022, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U925	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, We are looking at the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2020, 2021 and 2022. In the Commission, we heard all those who wanted to say something about this draft law. We are now starting with proposal 1. 1. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U926	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U927	2. is a proposal from the Legal Office. Partly supported, included in proposal 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U928	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U929	3. is the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U930	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U931	4. is the proposal of Member Pimenova. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U932	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U933	5. - Member Pimenova's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U934	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U935	6. is the proposal of Member Pimenova. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U936	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U937	7. there is a proposal from the Group of Members. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U938	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U939	8. there is a proposal from a group of Members. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U940	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U941	9. - a proposal from a group of Members. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U942	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U943	10. There is a proposal from the Group of Members. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U944	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U945	11. - a proposal from a group of Members. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U946	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U947	12. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U948	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U949	13. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U950	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U951	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U952	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U953	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U954	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U955	16. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U956	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U957	17. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U958	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U959	18. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U960	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U961	19. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U962	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U963	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U964	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U965	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Ivars Zarins' proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U966	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U967	22. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U968	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U969	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U970	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U971	Proposal No 24 - The Cabinet of Ministers' proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U972	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U973	25. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U974	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U975	26. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U976	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U977	27. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U978	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U979	28. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U980	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U981	29. - the proposal from Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U982	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U983	30. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U984	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U985	31. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U986	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U987	32. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U988	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U989	33. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U990	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U991	34. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U992	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U993	35. - Member Adamson's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U994	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U995	36. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U996	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U997	37. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U998	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U999	38. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1000	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1001	39. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1002	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1003	40. - HISTORY... Proposal from the Group. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1004	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1005	41. - the proposal from Member Papule. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1006	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1007	42. - the proposal from Member Papule. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1008	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1009	43. - the proposal from Member Papule. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1010	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1011	44. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1012	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1013	45. - the Group's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1014	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1015	46. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1016	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1017	47. - a proposal from a group of Members. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1018	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1019	48. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1020	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1021	49. - Papule's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1022	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1023	50. - Mr. Clementyev's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1024	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1025	51. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1026	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1027	52. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1028	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1029	53. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1030	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1031	54. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1032	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1033	55. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1034	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1035	56. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1036	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1037	57. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1038	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1039	58. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1040	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1041	59. - Mr. Clementyev's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1042	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1043	60. - Mr. Clementyev's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1044	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1045	61. - the proposal from Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1046	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1047	62. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1048	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1049	63. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1050	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1051	(The officer of the Secretariat shall pour in the depot. ( M. Bondar has a glass of water.) I'm sorry, colleagues! Thank you. 64. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1052	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1053	65. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1054	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1055	66. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1056	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1057	67. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1058	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1059	68. - Member Pimenova's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1060	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1061	69. - the proposal from Member Papule. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1062	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1063	70. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1064	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1065	71. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1066	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1067	72. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1068	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1069	73. - the Group's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1070	Members shall not object. And one moment! I have to read about this proposal. Members Zarins, Agešins, Rubiks, Pimenovs, Švecova and others - a total of 10 Members - are asking for the results of the vote on the 73th draft legislative proposal on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2020, 2021 and 2022 in accordance with Rule 140 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure. However, none of the Members requests a vote, so it is not possible to read the results of the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1071	74. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1072	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1073	75. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1074	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1075	76. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1076	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1077	77. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1078	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1079	78. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1080	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1081	79. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1082	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1083	80. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1084	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1085	81. - the Group's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1086	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1087	82. - the Group's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1088	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1089	83. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1090	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1091	84. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1092	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1093	85. - Member Orlov's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1094	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1095	86. - Member Pimenova's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1096	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1097	87. - the proposal from Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1098	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1099	88. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1100	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1101	89. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1102	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1103	90. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1104	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1105	91. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1106	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1107	92. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1108	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1109	93. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1110	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1111	94. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1112	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1113	95. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1114	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1115	96. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1116	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1117	97. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1118	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1119	98. - Member Orlov's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1120	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1121	99. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1122	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1123	100. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1124	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1125	101. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1126	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1127	102. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1128	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1129	103. - the Group's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1130	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1131	104. - The Greens/Farmers' Union proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1132	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1133	105. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1134	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1135	106. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1136	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1137	107. - the Group's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1138	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1139	108. - the Group's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1140	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1141	109. - A motion from Member Agešina. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1142	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1143	110. - A motion from Member Agešina. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1144	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1145	111. - A motion from Member Agešina. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1146	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1147	112. - A motion from Member Agešina. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1148	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1149	113. - A motion from Member Agešina. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1150	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1151	And finally 114. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1152	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1153	Request for and support for the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2020, 2021 and 2022 Thank you. Supported by the Commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Reindeer: “A hero!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1154	Please call me! Let us vote on the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2020, 2021 and 2022 at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. And the bill “On the State Budget for 2020”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1155	So we are looking at the draft law on the state budget for 2020. Looking at this bill, too, at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission for All - everyone! - From colleagues... from the position... both opposition and non-governmental organisations... I was able to speak, and we listened. So it's 1. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1156	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1157	2. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1158	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1159	3. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1160	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1161	4. is a proposal from the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1162	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1163	5. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1164	Members... Which proposal?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1165	About 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1166	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1167	6. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1168	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1169	7. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1170	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1171	8 / 8 - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1172	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1173	9. - The Cabinet's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1174	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1175	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1176	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1177	11. - The Greens/Farmers' Union proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1178	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1179	12. - Member Pimenova's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1180	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1181	13. - Igora Pimenova's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1182	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1183	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Igora Pimenova's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1184	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1185	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1186	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1187	16. - the proposal from Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1188	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1189	17. - a proposal from a group of Members. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1190	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1191	18. - a proposal from a group of Members. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1192	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1193	19. - a proposal from a group of Members. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1194	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1195	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from a group of Members. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1196	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1197	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from a group of Members. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1198	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1199	22. - a proposal from a group of Members. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1200	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1201	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from a group of Members. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1202	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1203	24. - a proposal from a group of Members. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1204	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1205	25. - a proposal from a group of Members. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1206	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1207	26. - a proposal from a group of Members. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1208	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1209	27. - a proposal from a group of Members. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1210	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1211	28. - a proposal from a group of Members. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1212	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1213	29. - a proposal from a group of Members. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1214	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1215	30. - a proposal from a group of Members. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1216	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1217	31. - a proposal from a group of Members. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1218	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1219	32. - a proposal from a group of Members. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1220	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1221	33. - a proposal from a group of Members. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1222	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1223	34. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1224	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1225	35. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1226	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1227	36. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1228	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1229	37. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1230	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1231	38. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1232	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1233	39. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1234	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1235	Thirty...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1236	40.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1237	40. I'm sorry. 40. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1238	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1239	41. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1240	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1241	42. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1242	See page 74.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1243	Yeah, I'm so sorry. 72. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1244	42.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1245	42. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1246	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1247	43. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1248	Page 82... Page 88.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1249	That's it, 88. ... 43. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1250	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1251	44. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1252	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1253	45. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1254	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1255	46. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1256	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1257	47. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1258	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1259	48. - The Cabinet's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1260	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1261	49. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1262	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1263	50. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1264	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1265	51. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1266	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1267	52. - Member Zarin's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1268	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1269	53. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1270	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1271	54. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1272	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1273	55. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1274	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1275	56. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1276	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1277	57. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1278	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1279	58. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1280	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1281	59. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1282	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1283	59. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1284	59. We supported it. 60.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1285	60. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1286	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1287	61. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1288	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1289	62. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1290	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1291	63. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1292	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1293	64. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1294	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1295	65. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1296	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1297	66. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1298	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1299	67. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1300	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1301	68. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1302	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1303	69. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1304	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1305	70. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1306	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1307	71. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1308	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1309	72. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1310	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1311	73. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1312	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1313	74. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1314	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1315	75. - Member Adamson's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1316	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1317	76. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1318	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1319	77. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1320	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1321	78. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1322	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1323	79. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1324	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1325	80. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1326	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1327	81. - the Group's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1328	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1329	82. - the proposal from Member Papule. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1330	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1331	83. - the proposal from Member Papule. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1332	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1333	84. - the proposal from Member Papule. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1334	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1335	85. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1336	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1337	86. - the Group's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1338	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1339	87. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1340	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1341	88. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1342	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1343	89. - a proposal from a group of Members. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1344	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1345	90. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1346	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1347	91. - the proposal from Member Papule. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1348	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1349	92. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1350	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1351	93. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1352	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1353	94. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1354	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1355	95. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1356	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1357	96. - Mr. Clementyev's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1358	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1359	97. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1360	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1361	98. - The Cabinet's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1362	It's supported. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1363	It's supported, I'm sorry, 98. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1364	And Members support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1365	99. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1366	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1367	100. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1368	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1369	101. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1370	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1371	102. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1372	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1373	103. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1374	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1375	104. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1376	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1377	105. - Mr. Clementyev's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1378	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1379	106. - the proposal from Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1380	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1381	107. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1382	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1383	108. - The Cabinet's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1384	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1385	109. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1386	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1387	110. - The Greens/Farmers' Union proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1388	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1389	111. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1390	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1391	112. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1392	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1393	113. - Member Pimenova's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1394	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1395	114. - the proposal from Member Papule. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1396	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1397	115. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1398	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1399	116. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1400	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1401	117. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1402	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1403	118. - the Group's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1404	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1405	119. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1406	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1407	120. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1408	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1409	121. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1410	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1411	122. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1412	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1413	123. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1414	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1415	124. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1416	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1417	125. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1418	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1419	126. - the Group's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1420	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1421	127. - the Group's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1422	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1423	128. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1424	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1425	129. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1426	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1427	130. - Member Orlov's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1428	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1429	131. - Member Pimenova's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1430	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1431	132. - the proposal from Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1432	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1433	133. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1434	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1435	134. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1436	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1437	135. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1438	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1439	136 - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1440	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1441	137. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1442	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1443	138. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1444	Members are in favour. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1445	139. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1446	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1447	140. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1448	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1449	141. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1450	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1451	142. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1452	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1453	143. - Member Orlov's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1454	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1455	144. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1456	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1457	145. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1458	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1459	146. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1460	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1461	147. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1462	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1463	148. - the Group's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1464	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1465	149. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1466	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1467	150. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1468	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1469	151. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1470	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1471	152. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1472	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1473	153. - the Group's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1474	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1475	154. - the Group's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1476	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1477	155. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1478	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1479	156. - A motion from Member Agešina. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1480	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1481	157. - A motion from Member Agešina. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1482	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1483	158. - A motion from Member Agešina. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1484	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1485	159. - A motion from Member Agešina. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1486	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1487	160. - A motion from Member Agešina. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1488	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1489	161. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1490	Let us start a debate. The name is the Minister of Finance Janis Reirs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1491	Madam President, Dear colleagues, With this last proposal, I would like to remind you that this draft law and, just a few minutes later, the next year's budget law does not propose changes to tax policy for citizens. We have followed the European Commission's recommendations on reducing social inequalities. From 1 January 2020, the number of citizens' exempt taxes... the differentiated non-taxable minimum, fixed at EUR 300 and increased to EUR 300, 400... to 500 in the coming years. From 1 January 2021, it is proposed to increase the minimum wage to EUR 500. We will ensure 2 per cent of GDP for our protection. The biggest spending items - medical salaries and the health sector... for priorities - 68 million, for municipalities - 63 million, providing an average increase of 3.5 per cent for each municipality. No municipality has a smaller increase in teachers' salaries - 23 million, as well as the remuneration of the employees of culture, home affairs and justice system. Additional resources are provided for science, demographics, justice, home affairs and other priorities. The guaranteed minimum income level is rising for all. The draft budget was prepared in accordance with the conditions of fiscal discipline and in line with the priorities set out in the NAP 2020. And, colleagues, the last thing I would like to say is thank you very much. Thank you to your cooperation partners for the preparation and work of the budget... and many Members who have already started to participate in the preparation of the work in summer, the Saeima for... The Saeima, all the members of the Saeima for helping us to provide this more than 24 hours marathon, the Budget and Finance (tax) commission, consultants, Gita, Legal Bureau, Dina, all the other responsible commissions for the examination of the budget, once again all the employees who helped us with this meeting, the team of the Ministry of Finance and Baiba Bāne - I know he is watching the broadcasting - all the State Secretaries and Finance Teams of the ministries, as well as unequivocal journalists who have reflected the timetable of the two-day budget review. And please support this budget in the vote. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1492	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1493	Yes, colleagues, thank you for your work. I wanted to mention a couple of facts and a couple of recommendations - a couple of those things I already mentioned in my previous budget talk. And one thing is, in my opinion, that, however, much, much better could have been done in the budgetary process. And there would be a request to the Ministry of Finance, which I will repeat, to put it into this year's budget... Next year's budget... As of 1 January 2021, in shaping the budget, Members were not able to do what the Ministry of Finance pointed out this time and the recommendations of Members were not able to do... what was unable to put into practice, so that it was time to do all this. So that's the first. Second. I would also like to see a review in next year's budget, because... review and allocation of ministerial funding to relevant government priorities. It is no secret that there are still ministries and sub-bodies that have been refinanced... and there are also certain government priorities - education, health and reduction of tax burdens - where, however, more resources are needed.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1494	Mr. Znotins... Mr. Znotiņš, the speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1495	Yeah, if he could... could it be combined?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1496	Are Members opposed to merging the two times of the debate? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1497	So health and tax burden reductions, where resources should be allocated more. That is the second request. And the third is... I call on all Members and also Ministers and the Cabinet to take serious, serious action and work on the National Development Plan 2021-2027. That is, in my opinion, the next big job, and that is something that we can do much better than it can be at the stage that it is at the moment. And I call again, however, for it to be taken seriously, which is the next seven years' plan. I would like to see it as from the point where we are now, in seven years, with strategic investment, we get to a better position and lead our country where we want it to be. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1498	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1499	I would also like to thank you, to thank you. Thank you first of all, I would like to say to civil society that it is not indifferent anymore and goes to the streets and is able to express its opinion in a democratic and form of what it cares about, what it hurts, what it is about. And that is very important for the 2020 budget. Nothing like this has been the case so far, and believe me, from tomorrow's beginning, our job... Our job must be to fight for both doctors and teachers, because the challenges that we have over the next 10-15 years in these two sectors or in these two industries, or both, are very important and important. Thank you to the Government, thank you to your cooperation partners, thank you all for being understandable in this budget.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1500	Mr Bondara, I have to say that the speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1501	Thank you. Thank you. ( The transcripts are: Bravo!) ; “Urah!” Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1502	The name of Member Eric Pucen.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1503	Hello, colleagues! Indeed, this was a very long and interesting time, a really heavy process of drawing up this budget. And at this time of the budgetary process, the best we have done is to review expenditure, where we found these 93 million in ministries. And that's just 93 million more than that... This has been the case in all previous years. This is exactly 93 million more if this revision of expenditure had not taken place. This is 93 million, which have come into the budget not from tax increases, but directly from saving. CPV LV... austerity is our priority, and it also appears in this particular... our 2020 budget. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1504	Name to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1505	Dear President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! In any year, the adoption of the state budget is never easy. We started the process in August. In this Saeima, we remember that five parties met together under relatively difficult conditions. And we found a way, the common denominators, how to work together. We have separate views on certain issues - that is beyond doubt; it is only expected and healthy. However, together we have found an opportunity not only to move forward with concrete reforms, but also to propose and hopefully approve the 2020 national budget from the Saeima. As the Finance Minister said, one of the main... Well, it's hard to say... One of the important factors in this budget or the facts is that we have not simply raised citizens' taxes when we adopt the budget - neither personal income tax, value added tax, nor social tax - which are the taxes that most often any government, any coalition wants to use to increase expenditure. Because we understand that every rise in taxes costs someone money. And we also need to think about our country's entrepreneurs, which is the source of all our country's taxes and redistribution. Its redistribution has not been easy, and I am well aware that not everyone in this Chamber and in society as a whole believes that this is the best or most desirable solution, because we have many interests in society. But there's our great challenge, how do we compare the various public interests, the specific interests, so that everyone would be... which would have an acceptable option for the widest possible proportion of society. Of all the priorities that we put forward, we put forward... and the public also consider healthcare to be one of the key elements. And indeed, of the redistributable extra money that we found, namely, redistributed, the biggest redistributive is specifically for the health care system, mainly for raising medical wages. Our second biggest... what we have further agreed on how to re-allocate money is the education system, mainly for raising teachers' salaries. And one of the most important priorities or directions in which we agreed to re-allocate additional money is the home system, if we look at the whole. Colleagues! This is just a step from a number of steps forward, which will have to be taken. Building a government is always a art of compromise. Budgeting is always the art of compromise. And we will have to keep this spirit that we have established to work on the budgets for the coming years. One of the great work we will do in this respect after the adoption of this budget is to start with a review of the tax system, which will, of course, also have a direct impact on the national budget in 2021 and 2022 and ahead. So thank you all for very good cooperation, thank you all for expressing your opinion - was it from the opposition or was it from the position or was it in the process of making... from all ministries, of course, all ministers, from all political groups. In particular, I must thank our finance minister, Mr Janis Reira, who, on the part of the Ministry of Finance, conducted the entire process, the head of our Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, Martin Bondar, for putting the processes in a very challenging situation in this Saeima. So thank you, colleagues, for your work. I call, of course, for support for the 2020 budget. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1506	I closed the debate. The debate is closed. And the speakers do not require a vote. Members support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1507	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Request to support also the draft law “On the State Budget for 2020” at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1508	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law on the state budget for 2020 in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 57 (Applause) , against and refrains - not. The law is passed. ( Not to be heard.) Dear colleagues, We're continuing the Saeima sitting. Members Pavļuts, Strike, Dzintars, Pucens and Latkovskis are asking to continue the Saeima sitting without interruption until all issues are discussed. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. On the agenda - reports by the Prime Minister, ministers and other officials. Annual report by Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš The Saeima on the work done and planned by the Cabinet of Ministers. Name to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1509	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Members and Ministers! We have just adopted the budget for 2020 that will ensure actually the growth of money in all sectors in Latvia next year, in all sectors wage growth, including due to the expected economic development. You all have been sent some time ago my report on the work done by our government, which you have the opportunity to read. Maybe I'll tell you a couple of words about how I see our whole activity and where I see the direction in which we have to go. Our aim in shaping this government - and this has been very much expressed in the last two days of the debate on the state budget - is to achieve the prosperity of the Nordic countries. This is not a goal that can be achieved in one day, a week, a month or a year, but it is an objective that we will achieve by working step. In order to achieve this great objective, we have set out concrete actions that we together, as a coalition, want to take. I'll remind them. We had what I called a zero priority when I formed a government nine months ago. We had a zero priority: getting the financial sector right. It is, of course, very much about strengthening the rule of law in our country, and then we have an administrative territorial reform, a health care reform, an education reform and, of course, also a strengthening of our security system - not only our military security with NATO investments, but also in our home system. What have we done so far in the relatively short nine months? Reform of the financial sector... what I used to call that capital reform... Capital repairs... we have concluded what could be called the first phase. You and I, my fellow Members, have adopted in the Saeima a whole series of improvements to laws that strengthen the ability of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission to manage and run our finances... make our financial sector stronger, both with... Well, how's that... both by law and, of course, by the fact that we have changed the composition and the board of the Financial and Capital Market Commission, the Saeima has already approved the chairman and one of the two vice-chairmen of this Board. We still have to accept this process... The Saeima will have to support the second Deputy to the Financial and Capital Market Commission, and in December the Saeima will have to approve a new Chairman of the Bank of Latvia. So we still have it, but that big first step is taken. We now need the new structure that we have created... so that it can bear the fruit that our financial sector is not only stable, but also our commercial banks are starting to credit the economy more again, are not afraid to open their accounts to the public, and could, to say, resume their full operation. Then we have an administrative territorial reform that Minister Puce has undertaken to pursue. And it is already being seen in the Saeima, in a special commission, and there is a debate more about the details whether the proposed local map will be adjusted or not to one or the other place. But what we do is we will build sufficiently large and strong municipalities with good development centres where there is a sufficient population, a tax base to be able to provide services to citizens in education, health, social care, security. This reform also opens up an opportunity for us, which has been impossible for years, because the majority of the Saeima has not wanted such a reform - we will be lastly able to sort out our educational network, not to mention the reform of our educational content. So, under Mrs Šuplinska's leadership, we actually have two parallel reforms: one on the school network, how to make it more efficient, and the other on the content reform, how our children will be able to be better and more up-to-date in schools so that they can be more competitive when entering the labour market. Another parallel reform, which is enabled because we are carrying out administrative territorial reform, is the improvement of the health care system that Mrs Viņķele is bringing us forward as a responsible minister. This reform of the healthcare system is perhaps one of the most difficult things to do because it has several edges; there are several everywhere, there are many edges. The first is the funding itself. And one of the questions there... and that we'll also talk to... now we will start when the budget is adopted while working on the tax system... how we can make the tax system fairer, i.e. that everyone participates equally, proportionately, because everyone goes, wants to go and have the opportunity to go to the doctor, but is also obliged to pay equally to everyone. We know that we have a number of legal tax regimes where we pay proportionately much less tax than elsewhere and from social tax at all to direct financing of health care... there is no transfer of money at the moment. We will have to adjust this. This is one of the elements that will help with the money question in the future. We already have 12 percent of government total expenditure, slightly above four percent of gross domestic product, from the quantity of pie... It is as if this is what was needed in 2016, but it is clear that we will need to look for more resources in the future. But then there is another question, just like in the education system, how to make the healthcare system more effective, so that every euro entering is used purposefully and that there is no unnecessary duplication, whether it is in hardware or staff pay. Similarly, as we do not want teachers to go or go between three schools in order to “read” the load and pay, we also do not want our doctors to go between three hospitals or healthcare institutions to “read” the salary but to do so in one place. The efficiency of the system is, in part,... through the levelling of so-called hospitals, defining the functions of each hospital, but there is much else to do, that is to say, from the point of view of patient care. Anecdotic example. Those with cars know today takes the car to the service, and then... I have had it that from the service call: “Hello! It's from the service. We are watching that your brake blocks have been worn down to such an extent that they are so in millimetres. Of course, you could drive for a while, but if you wear it even further, if you do not change the blocks in time, then the discs will be damaged, then it will be very expensive to repair. Recommendation you change brake blocks now, it costs anyway. What do you say about it, please?” A service-oriented industry has developed - car repair workshops. We need to make sure that, like all healthcare institutions... And in some, it's happening... but that in all healthcare institutions, the patient would also know that there would be someone to tell him or her what is going on, why is going on, how long will happen, what feelings might be, what needs to be done after the procedure and so on. And it does not only require money; it may not even demand money at all. But it requires effort and organisation, and it is one of the elements that we, as a government, have to talk about, which is a great challenge for the Minister: to achieve this change. Like in the security system. We've been... For several years we've been spending... and this year or next year will be slightly above two percent of gross domestic product... we are devoting our armed forces. I myself have looked at several of our objects, and I can see clearly how this money is invested very usefully - both in barracks for soldiers, where to live, in equipment, in our combat capabilities and so on. Our boys and girls participating in international operations are counted among the best soldiers in NATO's armed forces. Man against man... And we must continue to strengthen this capacity. Why? Because our security is strong when any opponent understands that the price is too expensive. But, of course, our security is not just about the armed forces; we also have internal security - the security associated with the State police, the security associated with the State Fire and Rescue Service. These are services that people face much more often than the armed forces. And in the budget for 2020 we were able to find a little less than EUR 19 million in addition. It is clear that this system, too, needs money and, of course, there is always room for efficiency. We know that Minister Ģirgen has already begun more reform in the police, with a reduction in the number. If I remember correctly, Mr. Girgen... About 600 policemen, as the State Police explained in our government sitting a few months ago. So efficiency at all levels. When we draw up the budget for 2021, we will have another challenge: to review base expenditure. It has also come from the troupe, in the debate on the 2020 budget, that we have to do this more carefully, because the money is not to be taken from the taxpayer alone, but it is also possible to re-allocate money in one budget of around 10 billion. And we've done a lot in 2020, but to 2021, to their needs... what it is - whether they are fire depots, whether they are still investments in the health care system or in the education system... There, too, we need to find more funds in our ministries. And I call on every minister, every group of ministers, to speak, seek, analyse and come up with proposals on how we can re-allocate national taxpayers' money even more wisely. And finally, about our next work or our next work - about the revision of the tax system. Here I have to understand that my aim is not to raise taxes as such. My aim is that we find and agree together how we can make the tax system fairer. Fairer! Let's not be that one neighbor speaks (inter-speakers. (Laughter) by the other, asks: “Why should I pay such a burden? And why can a co-resident pay proportionately less?" So work on this will continue and we must take decisions by the end of June 2020. So that the laws are all in force for six months to come into force... before they enter into force, all in Johns will know what the rules of the game will be in January. Colleagues! It is clear, and the budgetary process also points to the fact that we are living in such a period of painful emotions. And those with emotions... is hurt... it is not incomprehensible or even unfounded. As a government and as a coalition of government, we need to understand that human pain is real, we need to listen to these pains. We need to talk to people, and we need to talk to the opposition. Of course, it is desirable that the opposition also speak to us with some respect, because personal accusations are cheap, but unfortunately they are not very fruitful. So we need to look for ways to solve and listen. And that's our goal, that's what I'm trying to do on a day-to-day basis as a head of government, it's also... We, government, just... This week we were at the Alūksne departure meeting... In a beer where the government had not yet existed, so far. One of the regions that in a way shows what the future of Latvia will be, one of the regions where no change of external borders is planned, where we see where... This region has already made ambitious reforms and improvements, including in its education system and school network, rationalising money, because money is limited as everywhere. So, colleagues, thank you to all the government ministers for their self-deserving work, and that is what I can say about everyone. Thank you to all the coalition Members for their contributions to the debate, to the recommendations, to criticism, to improve this work for us. And, of course, thank you also to the opposition for the criticism that can only improve work. So let's work together, think about our country, try to listen and talk! We are not against anyone, we are in favour of all and our children living in a prosperous country. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1510	Thank the Prime Minister. First name to Health Minister Ilze Viņķelis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1511	Good evening, colleagues! In my opinion, we are at a time when more attention is paid to healthcare than ever before. On the one hand, this is not an easy moment, because these medical protests, which are also justified, are actually not a comfortable position, but on the other hand, it is a wonderful opportunity, however, to carry out and continue with the industry as well, to be recognised... continue with the excellent health ideas that have been set in motion. In my opinion, health policy is the most complex policy, because it has an enormous number of levels, each person has an opinion on it, and politicians also have an opinion on it. But the system is very nuanced and fragile, and any intervention in it can create very serious consistency. But when I talk about what has been done here for almost 10 months and what the plans are, first of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister... Even though we don't always think about action that would be necessary, but still... support for initiatives aimed at putting the healthcare system in order. A major project, which is indeed a phase of implementation launched by the previous government and is in the process of being put into practice, is the glue of our hospitals: certain amounts of services, such as the baskets provided by hospitals. And the question is now... we, with a very critical, objective eye, assess how high these services are, whether they are at all, whether they are organised optimally, or whether there is a possibility for more services... the concentration of more complex services with a view to making them more high quality and also safer for patients. What does that mean? This means that currently Latvian hospitals are inspected to verify the quality and extent of services provided. And the next phase is proposals, as we obviously have a high level of complexity, we will focus our investigations more on regional hospitals and university clinics, providing access to good, high-quality primary care in the regions. The second direction, which, in my opinion, is also very important and marks in its way a new page in its relations with the pharmaceutical industry, is the regulation with which the Cabinet is currently working... on the wider recording and use of active substances in medicinal products, which would allow our patients to make significant savings on reduced co-payments. This difficult decision, which took 10 years, has been taken at the very time of this government and, hopefully, as of 1 April, we will experience very practical consequences of this decision. It is estimated that this could save people up to EUR 20 million in co-payments. The future plans could be told in a long and wide way, but it is an extremely large portfolio, but one seemingly smaller thing, but extremely important for patients who, after a stroke or having severe oncological diseases, cannot eat themselves because of their state of health, cannot eat food in the same way as healthy people do... and to say thank you also for perhaps not quite comfortable discussions in the Saeima, namely discussions about enteral and parenteral feeding. It is not paid for by outpatients at the moment. And the situation may be that a person who has been treated or has been given medical treatment in case of a stroke actually suffers from hunger because he cannot eat. And...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1512	Mrs Viņķele, your debate is over. You can ask for an extra time - two minutes if you want to.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1513	Yeah... I'm gonna need a little bit.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1514	Are there any objections from Members? ( The box “No! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1515	In one word, then, although no additional funding was allocated to start this programme in the budget, we have found a solution in the revision of the programmes of the Ministry of Health to provide this catering for patients who are severely ill from the middle of next year. That would be all, too. Thank you. And health is the biggest public asset.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1516	Thank you to Health Minister Ilze Viņķelis. (Applause) Mr Ramona Petraviča, Minister for Welfare, has applied for the next debate. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1517	Colleagues! I would particularly like to emphasise this word - colleagues! Although we represent different parties and have different views on what should be done and what should be done, today we have formulated our attitude towards what has been done and what is planned next year. That is why we are, from this point of view, joint workers. There are, of course, Members who stand up for the work of the government, knowing how much it has been measured, cut, again measured and then tightened and corrected. But real! And, of course, there are those who think that everything has been done wrong. As usual when the budget is being drawn up, we find obvious. In other words, our desire and ability to spend unfortunately goes far beyond our ability to earn. It is clear, however, that sustainable growth can only be ensured on a stable basis and not by living beyond its own resources. But the money is always missing. And that's clear. Two weeks ago, when talking about next year's budget, Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš said from this troupe: "We need to make the system fairer. So that everyone who works in Latvia pays taxes evenly and proportionally to the system.” Because this is not only about money, but also about what we want to expect from the country and what we want to do together. Although today there have been many different criticisms about what we have reduced specifically for socially sensitive groups, I would like to emphasise that something is not reduced, but directly increased. The welfare sector's budget will reach €3.3 billion in 2020, more than 200 million more than before. The general budget allocates EUR 703 million to state social benefits, service pensions, old-age pensions and public social services. This allowance is increased for families with particularly severe disabilities, for which specific care needs are indicated due to severe functional impairments, by EUR 100 per month. A new allowance for adoptors has also been introduced to each... provide each child with a family. Wages for employees of social care centres have been significantly raised. To support the most exposed groups of society at risk of poverty and income inequality, such as people of retirement age and persons with disabilities, the government has decided to increase the guaranteed minimum income from EUR 53 to 64. The indexing of pensions has spent 201 million. From next year the basis for calculating the minimum old-age pension and the state social security benefit for people with disabilities will be 80 euros, and for people with disabilities since childhood - 123 euros. Overall, these measures will have a positive impact on more than 70,000 people. Of course, I am far from thinking that the proposed solution to the various problems is perfect, it is certainly not. We are not near the poor, but we cannot also call ourselves rich. We need a lot. The social sphere, education, health - these are areas where money should be much more. Yes, as far as the issue of the remuneration of medical staff with a bad reputation is concerned, I think we must admit that we were wrong when we entered in the law figures that were not covered. The mistake is serious. And we all understand that, now it has to be corrected. But most importantly, we all need to learn from it, because only in this way can we regain our reputation with this case quite damaged. Yes, what we can do so far and what we plan to do in the near future does not answer all the questions and does not promise any miracles. But all this is real and justified, based on real calculations. In fact, a thicker mask would already be useful in all areas. I agree with Prime Minister Kariņš's statement that we are at the stage of arrangement of the system. Indeed, the country has been built in depth, and all this works. Therefore, we can afford the luxury of planning ahead - smart, balanced and thoughtful. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1518	Thank you, Minister for Welfare, Ramon Petravič. Minister of Education and Science Ilga Šuplinska applied for the next debate. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1519	Good evening, colleagues! It is a late evening hour, and therefore, without delaying your attention, really only a short basic or essential aspect. So there are three key priorities in education and science policy: access to education, quality, competitiveness - the first; the second is increasing scientific funding; the third is changing the model of sport governance and also the focus of youth policy. It is very brief about the situation of these specific priorities at this point in time. So the additional budget obtained by the Ministry of Education and Science is not big, it is 30 million, but it is very valuable because it guarantees implementation of the first priority axis. We're going to raise the teacher's salary. And secondly, we have not brought great but significant benefits to the increase in scientific funding as well. It is not insignificant that the implementation of youth policy also has a small but substantial increase. The sport sector has remained a little more advanced, and indeed it is a priority for the next period, because it is precisely in the financing of international activities that there must definitely be an interinstitutional solution, on which we are not only thinking, but are also writing concrete proposals. At this point, the Ministry of Education and Science is open to several very important discussions. It's one about municipalities, we've been talking to 70 municipalities right now, we'll be talking to the others. And we are talking about the arrangement of the school network, the situation in the teaching body, the scope of support staff, the number of lunches we have discussed today, how to organise them and the extent to which the municipalities are ready for it. It can be said at once that these negotiations are truly valuable because they allow many things to be arranged that have not been conducted for a very long time in municipalities and in the Ministry of Education and Science. A second very important dialogue at this point has been launched on the issues of university management, and there are several discussion groups. It is today, by the way, that a cycle of discussions has started, and it can be said, with students. Students are ready to become actively involved not only in university management but also in increasing the quality and accessibility of education, and this is very important. The third thing that has also been moved and where we are ready for very broad cooperation is digitalisation, because this year has been declared a technology year at the Ministry of Education and Science. And all that is related to digital literacy is already in this moment, at least in our perspective, is expected in school not only with the education of competences, but also with the fact that within next year, 20 000 teachers will be invited to participate in digital literacy courses. It has funding, a programme has been developed, and at this point we are expecting the results of the questionnaires to understand how many teachers need basic, average or highest levels. If we are talking about youth policy, then very actively call on everyone... very... As if basic and in society have been discussed all the time, I say so, in the discussion of the scope of terms... In particular, it is non-formal education, education of interests and civic ownership. At present, in cooperation with the Youth Advisory Council and not only with them, including with representatives from the education of interests, we have found that there are a number of contradictions that have once again made this system, as it has been in education, fragmented. We also call on anyone with experience and who would like to strengthen this block. Moreover, it is precisely at this point that the Ministry of Education and Science will not only pay more attention to youth policy, but will highlight a number of policies that are very important. Because the key to changing thinking is young people. Therefore, at the Ministry of Education and Science, the main cent is currently placed on meetings and discussions with teenagers, young people and students. Because only at a time when their ability to think of them, their ambition, their capacity, their different world views, including how often there are no other generations' thinkers, can we transfer to governance, then we will be able to talk about a very significant change in society. And I very much hope that the next debate in the Saeima will also relate precisely to this thinking. Any proposal that is being made here must be justified and reasoned, not as an indication of the wish of the Member concerned to please or promise populistly. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1520	Thank you to the Minister for Education and Science, Ilga Šuplinska. Transport Minister Tālis Linkaits in the next debate. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1521	Good evening, colleagues! I had a detailed report on what we have already done and what we are going to do in the transport sector. But in view of the way in which today's debate has taken place and the course of the sitting, I would like to emphasise that I am a strong democrat and I believe that there should be strict parliamentary control over the work of the government, as well as an opportunity for the government and government ministers to explain their decisions to the opposition and to find, together with the public, the best solutions for each of the issues under consideration. Especially because decisions and processes to be taken in the transport sector are not simple. We are currently working on the reform of the public transport system. We want to establish rail as the backbone of transport, organise public transport competitions, we have started work on changing port management, and the first steps will show that we will face obvious resistance. The opening of the market for road maintenance is under preparation, long-term plans are being prepared for the development of the roads of Latvia by 2040, the opening of the market for maintenance stations is under preparation. Very important decisions will continue to need to be taken with regard to the Rail Baltica project and other major projects of the European Union. We are also working to eliminate various types of schemes and other negative actions in corporate governance, which are talked about much by the media, and we are talking a lot here, in the Saeima commissions. And to prevent this all, you need your support as well as the support of the opposition, on which I also hope and trust. I would also like to point out that we have had a good team in the government so far. Although we have come from various five parties, I feel the support and support of my colleagues when making decisions, trusting each other, and I would also like to thank Prime Minister Kariņš for keeping us all together and moving us in one constructive work. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1522	Thank you to the Minister for Transport. Mr Janis Bordāns, Minister of Justice, next to the debate. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1523	Hello, dear colleagues! I will be speaking in two persons in the sense that I am the Minister for Justice, but here is the first budget of our government, the first budget approval, and I am also the Head of the New Conservative Party, so I would like to say on behalf of the New Conservative Party that we have come to work in this government not only on the basis of compromises but also on the basis of the principle of consensus, namely to base our action on finding common solutions. And all of us, as you have seen, as colleagues in the government have seen, all of our ministers, of course, defend their values, defend our interests as ministers and also the joint party programme with which we have come and have been elected, have taken care of the successful functioning of the entire government. And why? Because this government... I'm going to add to what the Prime Minister said... to say that it is different. I'd say this is the widest possible... In Latvia now possible reform government and the strongest reform government ever. Our party will stand, as you see, also stand (and this will not change) unitedly. And we will stand both for our values and for the values of this government, because the programme and declaration that this government has made together is in line with our uncompromising rule of law, the principles of the market economy and democracy. Looking at how our government's budget was being prepared... it made various statements, which may not have been reflected much in the press. Well, here's the society now... public and private press, television does not film anything when the Prime Minister and Ministers speak. But it seems to me that it's very important to say... in due time I'm not going to talk about everything that was really planned, but... to say that there were different myths, even slanders, even falsehoods about the justice system, about what the justice system is going to do and how it is going to do. I would like to mention a few things. So, in line with the government's priority of work, another important thing. I think this is more important than to mention various details of the judicial system... You see, there's no opposition right now, but before it was gathered... Well, you already know how great a power and how big a financial organizational, coordinated, orchestras were used to to track the government, it's even a variety of... without strong attempts to demolish this Parliament, because it's all... Allow me, however, to say that the most dangerous word that this opposition and the oligarchs behind it have read is the uncompromising rule of law with which our entire government has come and have already begun to do these great works. They have felt that we are fighting against inefficient leaders of law enforcement agencies, against inefficient systems in a wide range of manifestations, in terms of health, education and justice. What the Ministry of Justice has managed to do... it has been able to cooperate with various Latvian institutions. Very good cooperation has been achieved with the State Audit Office and will develop. As a result, we will make very valuable changes in our justice system in the coming years. We have been able to cooperate with the State Revenue Service. We have excellent international cooperation, we have concluded an agreement with the United States Government on investment in strengthening the justice system. We have started cooperation with the Council of Europe Committee on Judicial Effectiveness. We have specific programmes in place in several courts, let us say, experimental programmes, but they will produce results. I would like to mention one comparison with a derogation. Mr. Girgen said... and with Mr Gobzem and Mr Vjačeslav Dombrovskis... there is a claim against the funding of the lots. I want to make a comparison. The parties entering the family will be provided with funding to ensure their activities - 100 thousand per year, but it will be under the strict supervision of KNAB, in which case the limit will be reduced ten times for private donors. Is that a lot or a little? But let's talk about the facts. Official last year...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1524	Mr Bordan, the five-minute debate is over. You can ask for an extra two minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1525	During the official pre-election period last year, one newspaper with two releases paid 100 thousand euros alone - all this year's sum - for only two publications by Gobzem and Vjačeslav Dombrovskis in Day Business. Then compare these amounts and consider whether it is a duality, or whether they are double standards! Thank you. Good luck for our government! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1526	Thank you to the Minister of Justice, Janis Bordans. The next speaker was Mr Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1527	Highly honored Saeima! I am very pleased to inform you about the progress of work in the Cabinet of Ministers and in the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development under my responsibility in these less than 10 months since Krišjānis Kariņš' Government worked. One of the greatest priority reforms that this government has proposed is the responsibility of our ministry. In particular, to create a new system of local authorities, new municipalities that will improve the quality of life of the population will reduce inequalities in services received, regardless of their place of residence. We are aware, and it has been a joint decision of the government-building parties, which has also been supported by the Saeima, both in the decision to continue the reform, and in support of the First Reading of the laws of the Administrative Territories and settlements already submitted to the Saeima... We are aware that a positive change requires strong, capable municipalities to develop. It is in the interests of citizens that larger, economically stronger municipalities are able to provide good services and become a strong partner for the country, thus enabling reforms to be carried out in other countries as well. We have gone a long way, and I have reported to the Saeima on how we have come to see this reform in the Saeima. There is even more intensive, responsible work in the Saeima to achieve a balanced offer of administrative territorial reform that is fully in line with the interests of citizens. At the same time, I have to stress the fact that we have made significant progress in monitoring the work of municipalities in the Ministry. We have strengthened our supervisory work, we have assessed in depth complaints and information on municipalities provided by competent authorities. As part of this work, after a 12-year break, the Ministry as an institution in this case, but also as a responsible official... We adopted an order to suspend the manager of Riga municipality from performing his duties. Such supervision activities are also carried out in relation to other municipalities, and the Ministry continues to monitor the activities of the previously mentioned Riga City Council by constantly requesting various documents for evaluation, adjusting the activities of the Riga City Council, regularly reviewing documents and achieving a better result. Without this perhaps the most public area I would like to mention two more important topics for our ministry. Climate change I am pleased that this government has been active on the grounds that Latvia should be a group of countries that are in favour of a positive climate policy, on policies that mitigate climate change and, at the same time, give Latvia a new impetus to economic development. Future, moving towards so-called climate neutrality - this is Latvia's opportunity for new, well-paid jobs, new technologies, new production, that we will provide our goods and services to the whole world. The other thing. Environmental protection. In the field of environmental protection, this Saeima has made a historic decision. After 20 years of debate, a decision has been taken on the introduction of a packaging deposit system, a decision that has been delayed in long discussions and battles between the various stakeholders in the waste management system. Our ministry now has a great responsibility: to ensure that this system is fully operational over the next two years, and I am committed to this. In the field of e-government, we have made a significant transition to ensure that Latvia develops e-government services in the future in a more centralised and smarter way. Here we have had a very good model of cooperation with the Saeima, with the responsible parliamentary sub-committee and with the very active action of Members, a new legislative package has been presented that has started its way through the Saeima. And I very much hope that these changes in Latvia will change the way we develop the offer of eGovernment. In joint work, the Cabinet can do a lot with the Saeima. And I am sure that we will continue to do so. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1528	Thank you, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pucem. The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior, Sandis Ģirgens. Please! Members, do you have reservations about the fact that the Minister brings together both times in the debate? Members have no reservations.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1529	Dear colleagues, Thank you for your work. Thank you to all those who have taken part in the creation of this budget, because in this budget we have included not only the issues of the remuneration of teachers and medical practitioners, but also the issues of cultural workers, and there is also a solution, or direction, which I consider necessary for the development of our country - a review of the remuneration of the staff of the home system, a planned increase, because without that we cannot continue our way - to strengthen the rule of law in this country and also to ensure national security. This budget is also, in my opinion, a clear vision that in future we will take care of the material well-being of all employees, social guarantees, because, in my view, we must take care of a very wide range of representatives of various important professions working in the Republic of Latvia. As we spoke, they are policemen, firemen, border guards, security staff, teachers, medical professionals and other professions, because even the Constitutional Court adopted a judgment in 2006, in which it indicated that the Republic of Latvia is a socially responsible state and the Republic of Latvia is obliged to think about social guarantees for the widest range of persons. 18 November, Proclamation day of the Republic of Latvia. And I really would like to start by thanking all the employees of the home system, including their families, very much for strengthening the security of our free, independent Latvia, for the rest of the nights. Thank you very much for working day-to-day. We are working side by side and we will also continue to strengthen the system as a whole. But coming... in fact, also in my role as Minister of the Interior, I have one very big objective that I have talked about with colleagues. I really believe that Latvia can become one of the safest Member States of the European Union by 2027, with a low level of crime and corruption, because my deepest belief is that only a legal state with a low level of crime and corruption is capable of securing prosperity, attracting international investment and building this secure financial sector, within which we have taken a course on its path. Again, honourable colleagues, I would perhaps like to point out the most important work that has already been done. We're... In fact, the internal security of the country depends primarily on how well-educated workers work in the sector. And in order to increase the qualification of home affairs officials, from the autumn of 2020, the future field representatives, who will have completed first-level professional higher education studies at the State Police College, will also be offered an accredited bachelor’s study programme “The police work”. And the graduates of the professional bachelor’s study programme “The Police Work” will be provided with an opportunity to qualify for admission to the professional master’s study programme “Legal Science” for obtaining a qualification for budgetary resources in accordance with the recommendations of law enforcement institutions. So this is also a rather important turnaround, because, as we know, in 2009 the Latvian Police Academy was dissolved... and we have been able to find within 10 months the best and most effective model for training these law enforcement officials in order to increase and increase the investigative capacity and quality. I would also like to point out that, in response to changing security challenges, the State Security Service, in cooperation with other national security authorities and ministries of sectors, has developed the concept of national security, which has been approved by the Saeima at its meeting on 26 September and is currently working actively on the development of the National Security Plan. In order to implement the requirement included in the Moneyval report to strengthen Latvia's ability to fight money laundering and terrorist financing, changes have been made to laws that significantly facilitate standards of proof and thus facilitate investigations in the cases of funds obtained from crime. Just a few examples. In the nine months of 2019, the State Police has launched 107 criminal proceedings for money laundering... In total, 164 criminal proceedings have been initiated and 37 criminal cases have already been transferred to the prosecutor's office for prosecution. Overall, in the nine months of 2019, a criminal arrest has been applied... possibly EUR 197 million of criminally acquired property. In 2018, EUR 121.3 million of criminally acquired proceeds were arrested. For the time being, the property, possibly criminally acquired, has been confiscated in the amount of EUR 16 790 895, and we see that this trend is becoming more and more. What do I want to say to you, honourable colleagues? We see that it is still possible, in fact, to carry out acts that are criminal offences, and there is still much to be done to work on confiscation of the proceeds of crime and the detection of crime. But to detect these crimes to confiscate and arrest... The arrest and confiscation of the proceeds of crime requires a clear strengthening of the home restaurant. And, as we can see, these hundreds of millions of euros being confiscated will also be directly entered into the state budget, and we will be able to use them accordingly to raise the salaries and social guarantees of both teachers and medical practitioners and other officials. Congratulations once more to all of you on the adoption of the budget. Thank you colleagues, thank you Prime Minister, thank you Minister for Finance. A really important work has been done. A major reform has been launched and I believe that we will also continue to work together to ensure that all sectors develop smoothly, that resources are distributed in a spirit of solidarity and fairly, according to the right priorities, and that our country develops and is prosperous. Thank you all for your work. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1530	Thanks to the Minister for the Interior, Sandy-Girgen. The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralph Nemiro. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1531	Yeah. Thank you, colleagues. The budget period really did not start two days in advance. This began well before we started to plan our expenditure items. We are in a coalition of five parties. Each party, of course, has its own priorities, but the budget has as much as it has. We had to align these expenditures to meet the needs that have not been met for years, as well as the problems in the various sectors. As an economic minister, there are, of course, many things that I wanted to do differently. However, each of these headings is linked to the resources allocated to a particular sector. While the issue of financial sector alignment has been very important... Today, too, many entrepreneurs complain, or more precisely, that there are problems with the opening of a bank account or, on the contrary, the closure of a bank account. However, we have appointed the new head of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission for the Saeima's vote. And so we can qualify and hope for changes in this process. Undoubtedly, there are many challenges that we will face, and they are more related to SRS activities. Although the Head of the State Revenue Service is very focused on cooperation and we periodically organise meetings that lead to us talking about how to improve the business environment. Undoubtedly, entrepreneurs also require accessible housing. Available housing is not a one-day solution. This is a matter on which we need to work for a long time. I also consider the general agreement reached in the construction sector to be a great success, which makes it possible to think about reducing the shadow economy. These are complex measures on which we have worked and will continue to do so. Undoubtedly, we can do more, it takes a lot of money and a lot of energy, but we will work on it. Therefore, innovation productivity is the most important feature of the Ministry of Economics. Economic operators often grow turnover, but productivity is not on track. Therefore, we have programmes, and at the same time, the Latvian Investment and Development Agency comes with a helping hand... The next steps in this institution, I think, will change, and there will be new emphasis on technology and exports. And we certainly need to work together in the future. I am very pleased that in the energy sector I have managed good cooperation with other ministries - Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Agriculture, VARAM. And we will certainly expect the same cooperation from the officials of the Ministry of Finance when we talk about measures to abolish the OIC. At the same time, I would like you to remember that we should thank, above all, the entrepreneurs who ensure that we can share the budget at all. Yesterday we gave the TOP 500 prize to the best entrepreneurs. And I am very pleased and pleased with entrepreneurs who grow turnover, who grow, who become internationally capable of competing with different goods and services. Our ICT sector has grown: the amount of services has risen by 5.4 percent, and I think we as a country can be proud of our entrepreneurs. The budget has not really been easy, but we have worked and our results will be measured by the voter after two or three years. Yes, the opposition left room today at a time when the time for the debate was shortened. Colleagues! We need to concentrate, we need to talk about the matter, so thank you for your vote. We've got a job ahead! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1532	Thank you to the Minister for Economic Affairs. Name to the Minister of Defence, Mr Pabrik.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1533	Good evening, dear colleagues! Thank you very much for this budget. Because looking from the Ministry of Defence, I am grateful and happy that nobody in the coalition questioned this great need to keep us, let us say, a defence budget of two per cent and no less, because many of us still remember, as it was, when the Latvian armed forces were in the survival regime, when the Latvian Earthguard was in the survival regime with one per cent, and we could not guarantee anything at that time, except survival for our armed forces. At the moment, it is different. Latvia has a combat-able army, and I dare to say that we are actually also better than some of our neighbours in several or even many areas (Dep. A. Neighbours: “What are you and the Neighbours?” )... But not for you!... And I would also like to say that, in fact, understanding that these two percentages are very important to us is not only in a coalition, but even in opposition, because when we discussed the need to find the necessary resources for Latvian medicine, even from the opposition there were no proposals to reduce two percent for protection, and that is important. That's perhaps essential, too, because I can thank many here... Yes, indeed, ours are everywhere, also here in the Latvian Parliament, there are landguards. I would therefore like to thank those Members who, in parallel with their work, have invested their free time in the protection of Latvia, who are in Earthsards. And I would like to say that one of the essential aspects that we are planning, which we are also planning to do with the help of this government, is the introduction of a comprehensive system of national defence. So, if you let me have a little joke, I see a lot of reserves here, too. But if seriously, then comprehensive national protection, as the Prime Minister pointed out, is the way in which we can even better achieve the objectives of the mandatory service in individual countries. We can prepare our societies for various crises, including battle and, to say, war, and with the introduction of such a system, we can be cheaper to achieve what many countries want to do with this mandatory service. In parallel, we are also helping the education system, and I am talking here about a national defence lesson that will, to a large extent, enable our young people not only to learn better the values on which patriotism is based, but also to prepare them for a better life, and not to go into the armed forces or in the Earths - even working in a private company or somewhere else - they will be prepared. We also have very good cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior. We have supported the internal structures, the border guard, as far as possible, both financially and materially. We have rearmed our border guard with G36 weapons. We have also helped many, many policemen in training. This cooperation will continue to us: to build our borders in a modern way. I would like to say that when we talk about the Latvian army being capable of fighting, we should remember that it is essential for us to participate in international missions, it is important for us to maintain solidarity with our allies in NATO. We want to build on two legs. One is our own readiness for no one to simply break our borders, and the other is our readiness to be the best of allies if there is a need for these allies to really come to us. That is why these two per cent of GDP are important, and that is why our international missions are important, and that is why our own combat capacity is important. And finally. Another important thing. When some talk about the funds that come into the defence sector, I would like to say that the lion's court, a lot of these funds remain in Latvia's economy, Latvia's growth, Latvia's exports, because we reach two things with investment in Latvia's economy. Under peaceful conditions we promote exports, Latvian farm, employment, business, modern technologies that go out, say, tests through our army, but - do not give God! - in times of war, it will provide us with the first supplies, because we will not always be able to rely on what is going on outside or from outside. So that you support your soldiers, just like they support you, and thank this Saeima, this House for this budget. This is the first budget for this coalition, but I very much hope that we still have many common budgets in front of us, because we are going out of this Chamber today much more united. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1534	Thank you to the Minister for Defence. Name of Minister for Culture Naurim Puntulis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1535	Good evening, colleagues! I am in office for a little over three months, so I can talk mainly about the work that has been done, and most of them all relate to the process of drawing up the new budget for 2020, where all the priorities of the Ministry of Culture are also illuminated. But first of all, some of the issues that do not affect the budget, and these are concrete planning documents, which are now due to expire and which are currently under my leadership to be created again. So, first of all, the National Development Plan mentioned here. The Ministry of Culture has already made its proposals; work on this document with you will continue. Secondly. Today's topicality is new cultural policy guidelines. In their creation, I have decided to go on my way... making this document more widely involved in the sector. It is a more complex road, certainly more difficult than to delegate such a document to create a break with reality somewhere in the official's offices, but I am convinced that the result will be considerably better and we will create a real road map with very specific objectives, not just a bureaucratic document. Yes, it is precisely the specific and achievable objectives that have been so lacking not only by individual sectors, but by country as a whole. I would remind you that culturalisation is the basis for the creation of this country. Culture and language are the meaning of the existence of this country, and that is why I believe that cultural policy documents should clearly define the objectives of the country as a whole, and that is why I have decided to involve as wide a intellectual potential as possible in the creation of this document. Work on the creation of this document has begun and my discussions in various formats continue. The new guidelines on national identity and civil society and integration are similar. It is a document that is currently at the discussion stage in the national regions. And that is the horizontal priority of our ministry, but it is very important for me and I think for all of you. Thirdly. I have always stressed that we have reason to be proud of our extensive system of education and its wide availability. Together with the song festival process and the incredibly wide range of amateur art in general, I think that it is the basis of a creative nation. I have always stressed that we, as a nation in the global and, I will say, often in the mercantile-thinking world, will only be able to survive if we are creative. Cultural education and amateur art are those hills where we lay foundations for the excellence of our culture and art and for the creativity of our nation as a whole. This is why two works are mentioned here: firstly, work on improving cultural education with the involvement of the sector, which has already started in August, and secondly, work on the Law on Cultural Centres is continuing. Fourth, the concert hall. Work has been done, we have once again clarified all the needs, modelled the possible situations in the context of both space and content, and we have addressed this issue in an accurate, well-thought-out position with a specific objective. This is the public-private partnership as the most favourable model for the country. The next work would be difficult to look at separately from the national budget for 2020. And here, first of all, I thank the Prime Minister, my fellow ministers and also you Members. The cultural sector is not a orphan in the next year's budget. Finally, the cultural sector's budget is not seen on the basis of the surplus principle, but the needs of the sector are being cast into scales equivalent to those of the medical, home affairs, justice and other sectors. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. This allows me, as a minister, to hope that this budget for 2020 will enable things so vitally needed to be resolved or partially resolved. Let me mention the first three. First, remuneration in the cultural sector, second, support for those participants in the cultural space who are not protected nationally through the Culture Capital Fund, and thirdly, our excellent initiatives, which were launched in the framework of the national centenary: the project “Latvian School Bag”, our great cinema and literature. I will mention my recent visit to Frankfurt, where I started negotiations on Latvia's status as guest country from 2025 to 2027. And finally. Plans. I will return here to the negotiations on the Law on Cultural Centres, and I will return to you at the Saeima to the negotiations on the legal status of the Freedom Monument. I am determined to resolve this issue. And closing this. I did not consciously touch on another horizontal priority. It's a media field. I have received the Prime Minister's resolution. Work on this is taking place. We are preparing our proposals, and I will come up with them. I can only say in advance that we will not be able to look at this issue apart from the capacity of the Media Policy Unit of the Ministry of Culture. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1536	Thank you to the Minister for Culture. Name of Minister for Agriculture Kaspars Gerhard.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1537	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Honourable Members! Colleagues! The agricultural and forestry sectors in Latvia are an important part of the entire economy of the country. These are sectors that ensure the viability of rural areas. These are sectors that account for more than 40 percent of Latvian exports. These aspects clearly highlight why it is so important to promote the development of the agricultural and forestry sectors. It is a contribution to the economy of Latvia, to the well-being of the population, to the viability of rural regions and, of course, to the state budget. Rural space is an important resource of the Latvian economy, and its quality products and services provide opportunities for economic activity in rural areas. We are in favour of producing farms to encourage people to create, produce and process, to add more value to production. This motivates people to stay and continue or start working in the countryside. The rural population of Latvia, as well as socio-economic activity in Latvia, are unimaginable without agricultural farms and business fields. It is no secret that rural population is provided by agricultural enterprises, which provide both permanent and seasonal jobs for the population. This, in turn, ensures the preservation of the rural environment in Latvia, in the broadest sense. For where there are economically active people, there are also schools, kindergartens, cultural houses, libraries, shops and services, social and health care. Go on. For concrete work, how we achieve it and will continue to do so. Currently, the European Union's common agricultural programmes for strengthening agricultural competitiveness, promoting entrepreneurship, preserving the environment and biodiversity are being actively implemented. This year, EUR 560 million will be spent on agriculture through the Rural Support Service. This, however, is less than in 2018 - EUR 600 million - but it is due to the fact that one support programme - support for the disadvantaged regions in agriculture - was paid out over five years rather than seven years in this programming period. That is why it is particularly important that we have created an opportunity for a transitional period of more than EUR 20 million of State aid this year, and also, thanks to the adopted budget, more than EUR 25 million next year, and this is both credit interest cancellation and support for livestock farming, which has been the subject of recent discussions. We also continue to work on legislative issues that would support farmers and fishermen. We have good news for Latvian fishermen. As of the beginning of 2020, excise duty will also exempt diesel from the tax outside ports and will be available for use on board fishing vessels in coastal waters. Farmers are making very active use of land purchase credit schemes - the proposed option of buying agricultural land with reduced loan rates. The programme is aimed at small and medium-sized farms, as well as young farmers with economically sound farm development plans, but because of the increased risk or lack of collateral it is not possible to obtain a loan in commercial banks. The government decided to increase funding for the programme to EUR 100 million. For the successful development of agriculture, it is essential to ensure the stability of the farm and to reduce financial losses, and it is therefore necessary to increasingly introduce risk prevention measures, especially in view of the volatility of climatic conditions in recent years. This year, an additional €10 million has been allocated to cover part of insurance policy expenditure in the rural development programme. And this summer, the government approved state aid schemes to compensate insured people for the costs of droughts. As of this year, the insurance against damage caused by drought has therefore become more accessible to farmers. Could also unite...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1538	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1539	Dear colleagues, It is no secret that the grey economy is causing serious damage to our entrepreneurs, the economy and the public budget. Therefore, all measures that limit the grey economy are important. One such measure in our sector was to reduce value added tax to five percent for fresh fruit, vegetables and berries. It has increased the competitiveness of our producers, increased the purchasing power of citizens and reduced illegal trade. We are currently carrying out an analysis and are preparing proposals on the application of reduced value added tax to other essential foodstuffs - fresh meat and fish, eggs, dairy products. And most important. Latvia's agricultural policy cannot be separated from the common European agricultural policy. At the moment, there is a very serious debate about what the common agricultural policy will be like in the next programming period. And we have to deal with issues that have emerged historically, for example, that Latvia, like Lithuania and Estonia, unfortunately has the lowest aid payments. We have now developed a common position with our Baltic colleagues, which we are actively defending at European level, and we are also preparing proposals for introducing this common agricultural policy here in Latvia. These proposals are widely discussed in cooperation with farmers' organisations, and I think it is very important... with precise mechanisms, precise measures to address the main groups, perhaps each with a single... for small owners - one support mechanism, the average may be different, and for the big ones who are currently competing not so much in Latvia, but rather in European and world markets - the other. Of course, it must be seen whether substantial state aid is available, applied by virtually all of our neighbours, such as Finland, Poland. Dear colleagues, The country is as free as it is able to feed its citizens with the food they produce. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1540	Thank you to the Minister for Agriculture. The name is the Minister of Finance Janis Reirs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1541	Madam President, Dear colleagues, This government also differs with the fact that we do not have a manor or a puppet and we are very interdisciplinary. And many of my colleagues have already been affected by the problems that I too wanted to mention. I think I've spoken a lot today, yesterday a little bit, maybe I won't take the floor, but yet one thing... I'd like to talk about a couple of things. One of these things is the overhaul of capital... not directly the capital repairs, but the Financial and Capital Market Commission. The main challenge at the moment is to find funds for financing entrepreneurs. And what happened this year... In the past, banks came very linearly to clean up companies without assessing, simply closing accounts and doing nothing to assess risks. This situation must be brought to an end. The new Financial and Capital Market Commission should ensure that banks assess their customers and not simply exclude them from circulation. I think that this will help. The approach should also be reviewed for banks that were transfer oriented. They have very different prudential requirements. If we allow us to work in the internal market, to credit, it means that the requirements for these banks must also be changed, with the result that capital adequacy and other requirements must be reduced. And I really am happy, colleagues, for every financial message, for every big loan over five seven million when a company moves from a major bank to a capital bank of Latvia, and that is enough for us in recent times. ‘ Days in Business” can get such information once in a while. And it really is very good and positive information. So our capital banks are starting to finance the economy, and that is good. The second important issue concerns the introduction of a public partnership. A real public-private partnership. We need to learn the positive experience, we need to find ways in which this partnership helps economic development, helps the construction of economic infrastructure, but does not create a burden on our budget, and we need to find solutions for how we can do that. Colleagues, given that the Foreign Minister has also applied to speak, I will use only part of my time to end more quickly. Thank you, colleagues, for your support. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1542	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. Name to Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1543	Thank you, colleagues. And thank you to the Minister for Finance for having already applied for me. Firstly, thank you for your cooperation. Secondly, we will certainly meet in January during the foreign policy debate, so I do not want to go into a wide range of speeches here, just to mention that, over the last year, we have all worked very hard to prepare as much as possible for the Brexit, which has not yet happened, but which will certainly take place next year, and thank the Saeima also for the laws that have been adopted in this regard. Thirdly. Both this year and next year will take place in the fight for the best possible conditions for the European Union's budget. Undoubtedly, there will be work on strengthening the security of the country, which I am particularly pleased about, and Latvia, by strengthening the international rule of law, was finally able to formally join the UN International Court. This year also showed that Latvia is able to become a leader in the European Union in at least two areas. The first area is climate change. We have completely changed our cautious attitude by 180 degrees and are now one of the leading countries calling on the European Union to become climate-neutral by 2050. Last but not least, we have very recently been among the countries calling for the creation of a European Union level financial regulator and an institution for combating financial crime, in the light of our experience in the financial sector. The next year will be interesting both in strengthening transatlantic ties and in strengthening the security of our country. Much work will also be done in implementing the Diaspora law, but once again I would like to thank this Saeima for its excellent cooperation and for meeting in January! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1544	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I closed the debate. Dear colleagues, Consequently, we have heard the Prime Minister's report from the Saeima. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Minister for Finance, Minister for Government, we have told you several times today, thank you for your work, thank you for your budget. ( In honor of the Hall, those present stand up.) Honourable Members! Thank you for the very intensive two-day work. Consequently, the agenda was examined (interim.) We can close the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima. (Applause) Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! And the formality is reading the results of the registration of Members. The name is Marija Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1545	Members not registered: Valerijs Agešins, Uldis Augulis, Jānis Adamsons, Dagmars Beitnere-Le Galla, Raimonds Bergmanis, Aldis Blumbergs, Boriss Cilevičs, Gundars Dauge, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Jānis Dūklavs, Ilmars Dūritis, Aldis Gobzems, Inga Goldberga, Inese Ikstena, Janīna Jalinska, Nikolajs Kabanovs, Artuss Kaimiņš, Andrejs Klementjevs, Ivans Klementjevs (Intermediation: Yes!) ), Armands Krauze, Jānis Krišāns, Edgars Kucins, Māris Kučinskis, Linda Liepiņa (Interface: “Linda Liepiņa is also!” ), Vladimir Nikonov, Vitaly Orlov, Evija Papule, Igors Pimenov, Ivars Puga (interface: “Ivars is!” )... is, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Ivans Ribakovs, Arthurs Rubiks, Karina Sprūde, Jūlija Stepanenko, Didzis Šmits, Lubova Švecova, Jānis Tutins, Jānis Urbanovičs, Viktors Valainis, Jānis Vucāns and Ivars Zariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-14-PT13-2019-U1546	I closed the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima.
