ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Colonel is 9 a.m. I invite you to take a seat in the Chamber so that we can begin the Saeima meeting on 16 May 2019. On agenda... No changes to the agenda have been tabled. We can begin to discuss the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. First of all, reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Legal Movement of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and Medicinal Products” be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Seeds and Varieties” be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” submitted by the Member Valaiņa, Krauze, Augulis, Reizniece-Ozola and Jalinska be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U2	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I will tell you the meaning and nature of this draft law. At the moment, there is a situation where residents of apartment houses are forced to pay for the outstanding debts of their residents, their neighbours. Let me tell you how this situation is developing. I mean, a good-looking man takes a mortgage... This is the most common case: taking out mortgage credit, then going into some financial difficulties. And what does this man do? He stops paying public utilities. That is the practice! Well, six months, one year doesn't pay, the public debt is getting together. The moment is coming when the bank is also starting to address this issue. And within two and a half years, in two and a half years, this person loses his property because he does not pay the relevant payments to the commercial bank. In reality, the situation is further: the auction takes place, the apartment is sold (Sitting Manager knocks down with a hammer.) , but in most cases the value of the apartment sold does not cover the value of the mortgage credit. And in such cases... There is a procedure established by the Civil Procedure Law to cover debts. And uncovered debts are those that... the entire apartment house pays these debts. If you ask for numbers... This week there was a sub-commission meeting of the State Administration and Local Government Commission on Housing issues, to which representatives of “Riga House Manager” Ltd visited. They only spoke about Riga. There were also representatives of the Association of Latvian House Managers and Managers...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U3	One moment, Mr. Valaini! Just a minute! ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Colleagues, please, respect the speaker in the floor. Please continue!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U4	And what “the manager of Riga Houses” said – that in such a righteous state... There is now EUR 25 million, which is, in principle, irrecoverable. Because if this apartment is sold by auction... There is a mortgage credit there, and all these debts, if judged, will also have to be paid by the neighbours. The debate on this issue has been quite broad and this draft law reflects the outcome of these discussions. In particular, the very first case is that the Civil Procedure Law cannot place in debt for which there are still disputes. Therefore, only those debts which have been tried and for which enforcement orders have been issued are mentioned. Representatives of Latvian House Managers and Managers Association agree to this approach. Because it is perfectly normal that there should be no recovery of a debt that may still be in dispute, but only one that already has an enforceable title that has already been handed over to the bailiff. What is involved in volume. There are, of course, creditors' interests. And there have been many talks with the banks about what the amount is then, whether we need this transaction at all... This bill mentions - 10 per cent of the value of the mortgage sold... That too, in my opinion, could be a sufficiently large compromise with commercial banks so that responsibility for the maintenance of property would be joint and several. If we compare... For example, if you ever... Certainly many of you have ever bought or sold a vehicle. You know, when you go to the CSDD, the transaction must not take place until the debts are covered, all penalties are paid and so on. On the other hand, the apartment... In this case, the apartment can be sold with all debts. And the new owner is not bound by any of the debts. The debts are binding on the rest of the house. I heard colleagues that this draft law is intended to be passed on to the Legal Commission. But in view of the experience gained by the Commission of State Administration and Local Government and the Sub-Commission on Housing issues, working on this draft law and on housing issues, I call for support to this draft law and hand it over to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government so that we can continue the work. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U5	Thank you. So there is a proposal to refer the draft law to the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government. Member Juta Strike also wishes to make a proposal to refer the draft law to a commission. Please turn on the microphone for Member Strike!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U6	Good morning! Please establish the Legal Commission for the Responsible Commission, but the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission for the Co-Responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U7	Thank you. So there is a proposal that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission should be co-responsible. Colleagues! There is a proposal to refer this draft law to the Legal Commission and the Commission of State Administration and Local Government - as responsible commissions. We need to make a distinction and vote on which commission will be responsible for this draft law. There is therefore a proposal to refer the matter to the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government. We will be voting on this proposal first. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 24, for - 48, for - 4. The draft law has not been passed on to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government. Are Members opposed to handing over the draft law to the Legal Commission as the commission responsible? Are Members willing to vote? ( Internouncing call.) So Members do not want to vote. Are there objections to the transfer of the draft law to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission as a co-responsible Commission? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government as a co-responsible!” ) There is also a proposal to vote in favour of the joint committee. Let us vote first on the proposal... ( Internouncing call.) as co-responsible to determine... So the first proposal was to set up a co-responsible commission - the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. We will vote for the definition of the co-responsible commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” to the Committee on Budget and Finance (tax) as a co-responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! 51, 25, abstain - not. So the co-responsible commission is the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Thank you. On the agenda - reports from the Saeima Bureau on the granting of leave. For unpaid leave granted to Member Igor Pimenov on 9 May this year. For unpaid leave granted to Member Igor Pimenov on 9 May this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Igor Pimenov requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 9 May this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to Ivan Klementyev on 16 May this year. For unpaid leave granted to Ivan Klementyev on 16 May this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Ivan Klementyev, Member, requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 16 May this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to Member Karina Sprūdė from 16 May to 22 May this year. For unpaid leave granted to Member Karina Sprūdė from 16 May to 22 May this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Karina Srūre requesting her unpaid leave from 16 May to 22 May this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. On the agenda - examination of a request from Members. Opinion of the Appeals Board On the agenda - Members Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Krišāns, Valija Agešina, Jānis Adamsons, Jānis Tutina, Inga Goldbergas, Edgars Kucina, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Boriss Cilevičs and Ivans Klementyevs request the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralf Nemiro, On the avoidance of the Minister of Economics, to provide information on the implementation of the decision of the Saeima of 10 January 2019 on the abolition of the mandatory procurement component. Member Mārtiņš Staķis on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U8	Madam President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The request made by Member Ivars Zariņa, Janis Krišāns, Valija Agešina, Jānis Adamsonas, Jānis Tutina, Inga Goldbergas, Edgars Kucina, Vladimirs Nikonova, Boriss Cilevičs and Ivans Klementyev to the Minister of Economics Ralfa Nemiro “On the avoidance of the Minister of Economics to provide information on the implementation of the decision of the Saeima of 10 January 2019 on the abolition of the mandatory procurement component”. The Commission was also visited by an economic minister who did not avoid submitting an ‘independent legal opinion’, however, the contracting partner KPMG was not able to produce that opinion in time and in accordance with the terms of the contract. The Minister for Economics also pointed out that a contractual penalty for the delay was imposed. The Ministry of Economics also recognised that this opinion is third-party... legally binding... This decision of the Saeima... but it is not mandatory, it is only recommendive. By voting in favour of four and seven against, the Commission acknowledged that Members' request should be rejected. Consequently, there is no reason to accept this request as a request by the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U9	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name to the Member is Att Zakaitistov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U10	Hello! I would like to raise this issue because the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralph Nemiro, is from the political party KPV LV. The issue of OIC is very important. There are two things in this regard. On the one hand, there is talk about this issue. On the other hand, there are works. The request that we are talking about today - and I ask you to reject it! - It's not about works. The request is more about speaking. If that's what you think... How do we, the new political party on the KPV LV, feel about the OIC issue, which is important for society? Well, the way we feel can rather be described with a feeling after the party... The issue of OIC is a difficult issue, which, as a guest once a month, knocks at each household door and requires a fee. This is a difficult question for everyone. But we didn't participate in that party! There was wealth, there was generousness, there was everything, now there is a penny. And our minister has to deal with it, put all this thing in order. He's doing it. ( The box “How? ”) ) But the OIC issue is often becoming and has also become such, now, a completely reflex question... And it's a reflex issue at that basic level. I will explain to you what I mean by the question of reflexes. Imagine that there are doors with non-oiled hinges and that every time the door is open, it swells. And the snuff is about like, “Ok, ok, ok!” Now close your eyes and imagine that its doors are opening and there is a sound “oik”! Which of our colleagues will you see there? ( Intercretion: “Windows! ”) Welcome to the Chamber.) There's a difference between screwing and working. ( Internouncing call.) Our Minister works (Applause. Imposition: “And where is she – it’s working?” ), and this demand was not about work, it was about squeezing. I will remind you of the first question asked in this request: ‘Is the fact that you have not been able to submit the information requested to the Commission related to the inability or unwillingness of the Ministry of Economics?’ There is both ability and desire. Our Minister has shown this very clearly. The next point in this request. The next question is with words in brackets... Explain why the words - "independent legal opinion" - have been inserted in the quotes. Here's an expert who says there's a division of legal opinions... KPMG is not at the right. It's not an independent person! KPMG is an ‘independent’ (foot). Where is the list of independent and dependent legal offices? ( Internouncing call.) Imagine the door again! The door's opening! Who's standing there? ( Intercretion: “Ivars! ” ) The Chewinger. (Laughter) Thank you very much. The OIC issue is a problem for all of us, for society as a whole. Political party KPV LV has not been part of that party. We will clean that space, but we need time, we need support. We do not need a continuous response to pointless requests. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Čakša: “Ooo!” ) Vote against! Thank you. ( Intercretion: “Rightly! ” Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U11	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. ( The utterances are: “Ok! Come on!’ ; “The door is opening!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U12	Hello, colleagues! I thank Mr Zakatistova for drawing attention to this request and for giving him a little understanding of all this. Indeed, there is talk, and there is talk. This request was made precisely because it is being said but not done, Mr Zakatistov! I'm sorry. And if you had paid attention, then... That is what you yourself confirmed by recalling the text of the request. The time has passed for the particular case to be done. The Ministry of Economy has not done a job. It is asked why this has not been done. The Ministry is unable to answer, starts to speak up, asks another month... You remember very well. You remember very well that we decided here at the beginning of January that certain things should be done by 31 March. Nothing was done. Nothing has been submitted. It is right to ask: why has not been tabled? There are only two options: either the Ministry of Economics was unable to do so or... it either did not have the mind or the political will. There are no other options here. Of course, you can now turn aside and talk about OIC... That the door is shouting or the door is not shouting... In fact, these doors are very well soaked, and that is the problem: why does no one want to deal with this atmosphere. Yes, you have not been involved in this area so far. To date. You haven't been so far. Now there are grounds to start thinking that you will continue... participate to keep it going. And this is confirmed by concrete facts. The first fact is that you can't submit... The Ministry of Economics did not wish to carry out this task assigned to it by the Saeima. Instead of doing it, they began to think about how they could not do it. That is why this request arose, and that is why the Ministry of Economics avoided submitting something. They avoided being accountable for what they did - to put it more correctly, nothing they did. Just imagine! The Ministry of Economics, which six months ago... has set up a working group that works, analyses the situation... Then you give the Ministry of Economics another three months to work, but they can do nothing. Then the question is: the mind is not enough or the will is not enough to do something? The Ministry of Economics comes and says: “We need another month.” Okay, we gave them a month. A month later, they come and say, “We need another month. We promise that we will then submit to you those proposals on what needs to be done." Well, listen, are you all left there? What about your promises? You're just... What are you doing? You're just, apologies, muldat! Just doing muttering, not doing it. If we are talking specifically about this legal opinion... These words “an independent legal opinion” were put in the last instance in order to quote the Minister who said so. Let it be like a quote. As I understand you are outrageous about this because, in principle, what was the first legal performer to be chosen, which the Ministry of Economics chose as an independent... it turned out to be directly related to the entire scene, and the same went out of this game. Since these traces are also in the sense of the transfer, it is appropriate to refer to this ‘independent legal opinion’. Let us now talk about an "independent legal opinion", which is why the Ministry of Economics can't deliver for months at all. And this performer can't do it for months. I am familiar with this opinion; I have read it from the first to the last page. I can say that it is very general, superficial, there hardly any contribution at all. In practice, nothing new has been said there, except what we have already discussed here, which we have already discussed in the Commission on Petitions. In principle, this is also recognised by the providers of legal advice themselves. They also say that it is very superficial and so on. That's the text you're... Tell me it's not binding... And I asked the Minister for Economics, “What the hell did we expect here for three months? What have you gained from this opinion?’ He couldn't answer. That means what? That there's going on hiding this phase. You are already engaged in this phase with concrete actions. You have rightly said that there is talk, and there is work. You talk one thing, but you do something completely different. Why? Yes, to whom it is very beneficial, because every month - it is several million that we are forced to pay in addition to someone who goes into a mask. If you keep drawing it in length, then every week... I mean, if we count... Let's say, in 2017 we paid 266 million for OIC, so it happens that more than five million per week. This means that every week someone earns five million extra thanks to the fact that you're just sculpting fools when you say: “We don't know what to do. We will now sit down, we will now ask for this opinion, we will ask for such an opinion... “ And the whole story goes on, because it’s good for someone. Now you’re telling me you’ll handle it, but: “Give us time!” Yes, because it takes time to turn, to run this “machine”. What you've defaulted... You probably do not know, Mr Zakatistov, that the next scheme is being prepared. And we just need to take time to this scheme until we have the new scheme, to which everyone will be able to jump, and we will pay again happily. That's the game that's going on now! You are, of course, playing on the fact that the people will not know it and will appreciate your empty mulling. Unfortunately, not everyone. So if we are talking about this opinion, what do I want to say? There's one such important thing in this opinion... Why did we make a request? Because of what the Minister for Economics offered, how he dealt with this OIC story, it was already evident that he was going not to look for how to deal with it, but how to cover it. That is why this legal opinion was requested very narrowly - on those aspects that could be more useful in order to continue this climate... and continue to cover it. But the basic things that we should talk about, let us say, about the legal aspects of this aid - they have not been analysed. What was going on and maybe... and why the Minister for Economics is unable to answer - what were the aspects that he... Why did he not take this legal opinion for so long? In principle, in order to write a legal opinion, the competent office, which is in the course of the case, would need a few days rather than months. Colleagues, there is one thing that this opinion has been reluctantly forced to recognise - that support for the OIC for 10 years has been illegal. And the fact that it was later agreed doesn't make it a... legal. This, in turn, means the concrete consequences. What this office has done - it has analysed very narrow facts about it... that really, in the case where the European Commission has agreed... The European Commission is not obliged to request Latvia to repay this aid. Nor is the Ministry of Economics obliged to do so. But what is defaulted is defaulted by the fact that there are other obligations that have to be fulfilled. And this is specifically the case with third parties. In its opinion, the Legal Office stated: ‘Yes, in this case, third parties may bring an action before the courts and claim compensation for these losses for unlawful aid’. And that's it! I ask the Minister for Economics: "Why isn't this... Why is this critical aspect of the OIC area not further analysed?" He says, “Well, but the job hasn’t already been given.” Here, Mr Zakatistov, I am showing you the debt your minister is doing, whether he wants to fight this afer, or not to fight this afer, or simply looking for a new cover for it. The facts show that, unfortunately, the will to fight with this is for you for the time being, now, arduous. You look like you'd rather take part in this party. This is also reflected in your further steps. What has the Minister for Economics done? Three months have passed. He hasn't done anything. He says: “Give me another month, I’ll prepare... what we will do.” He's coming, realizing that this story that's been... what he has offered, not through the way, needs another story. He is now offering really things that could help to sort this system out, talking about controls, about the conversion of aid. In principle, these are all things that have been known for a long time. All right. Let us assume that the Minister for Economics has thought that these things really should be done, and he really wants to. But then the question is, why does the Minister for Economics need a month more to submit all this? Because, in principle, these are all things that have long been known. More! He asked for a month to open the electricity market law... proposals for second reading... The draft law has been submitted to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy for a long time and has been subject to a pick-up, and has not been advanced for more than four months. There, all these amendments have long been in. Long ago, these things could have been arranged. ( Internouncing call.) What the Minister for Economics is talking about now... that he could do it - apologies, it has long been incorporated into the bill. Just take it and accept it. So why is it marinated? Very simply because summer is coming. Now, if we extend the deadline, it will be presented at the end of May. Let's start looking at it in June. After that, the Saeima holiday will begin. There's nothing going to happen again by autumn. That is the plan that is currently under way. I'm sorry. This is demonstrated by real action. As you rightly said, Mr Zakatistov, there is a speech, and there is a deal! I am talking about what is being done. ( Internouncing call.) The Minister for Economics was also unable to answer why there was such a specific legal opinion as to why the money was spent on this opinion in general. He was asked: “What can you take from all this opinion as useful to yourself? What is the new thing that you have learned?” He couldn't answer that. More! I asked him, “Well, well, then tell him, what will be the specific things you're doing next?” He says: “We don’t have to take this into account at all. For us, it is simply one of the opinions that we have received." So there are thousands of public money spent on something that has lasted for an unreasonably long period of months, and from which there is no point in the end. And that's why the Ministry of Economics emphasizes this as the basis for its failure and inability to do something. ( Internouncing call.) There's another reasonable thing... for many things that this consultant could not deal with, he could have asked the European Commission directly. Here's another story about the action of the Ministry of Economics! Why did the Ministry of Economics write to the European Commission such a threat letter, a terrible letter? Of course, after receiving this letter, the European Commission said: "Well, of course, guys, if you don't do it now... You won't do what you... our commitment to Europe and so on, and so on, then of course we will have to punish you." It is clear why the Ministry of Economics wrote such a letter - in order to get another additional reason why this phrase should be continued. But why did the Ministry of Economics not ask for all the questions that the consultant was unable to answer for months that could have been asked by the European Commission directly? It is even about the legality of the same aid. What is it? They legalised this illegal aid or illegalised it? This can be done simply in one day - communicate and find out, but no reason were the blind chickens played, because in this way you can draw time. Every week - that's five million we pay to someone in the pocket. Here's the whole game that you are currently doing, if you're talking about specific business matters! Go on. What they did in this legal opinion... that's not... This legal opinion does not at all assess what the risks will be for... from those third parties who may bring such unlawful aid before the Court. It was said: well, yes, now it will be... because they can only turn to those who have received it. Colleagues! Here is one big, serious risk that is being defaulted for. There's another one... and which, in general, has not been analysed in this opinion for compensation for damage caused to public administrations. There's a law. I asked: why have you not looked at this important aspect? Because if we now see and have already been recognised in all possible ways, that this aid has been illegal for 10 years and has certain consequences, and that it may have to be answered why there is no such analysis? That means what? That you do not really want to be clear about this story. Most importantly, if someone really wanted to deal with the OIC, then first of all you should understand what is right in this system, what is wrong, what is legal, which is not legal. This is still not done. It's been embarrassing for months. That is something like that: you apply for a doctor for a serious patient who has, let us say, a brain tumor, and you say, “We will cure you right away!” But you don't want to do an analysis to him. What you offered... Instead of offering a solution how to remove this brain tumor, you just offered that one of the options how we can get rid of it is - cut off the head. Well it is clear that by cutting your head off, you will be freed from that tumor, that is, destroying this system, but it will have very serious consequences. What you're offering now: now let's think -- maybe something else can slowly cut this head off? And once again, it will be time to finally realise that we really need to go to the operation and carry out a really comprehensive legal analysis of this system, which you have not yet done. Until it's done, until you can't tell the truth what was right in this system, what wasn't right... Because it wasn't all right in this system. There are things that are really reasonable, right and that should be thought about how to develop them properly. But much of this should really be considered and changed. You haven't done that! And until you do it, you can tell the public the fairy tales you want. You don't want to fight this scene. Or you simply blindly walk by a manipulator to imagine your pointless hero, someone having the opportunity to continue earning millions at the expense of the rest of the people. Colleagues, I had promised you already when we formed a government... I said to the U.S.V. and your Minister: if you really want to get to the end of this scenario, I'll help you. I will help you deal with this even if you do not want to do so. So here's your choice - either you accept this help and you're going ahead, and you really end up with this, and you can account for your wish that you've done something meaningful, or you're going to a political dung that's already before you. Colleagues! I call for this request to be supported, because this request is indeed justified. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U13	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U14	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Every minute, which we stand here in the triple, and delay these chairs, we lose money not only with OIK, but also with the Riga City Council. ( Insight: “That’s it! ”) Thank you very much. I would like to say that... I don't want to defend the OIC right now, because we have to deal with it, but... We have asked the Minister for Economic Affairs for the avoidance of providing information... but I would also very much like to provide information to the group SASKĀJA that I have been actively and diligently trying to get from Riga Municipality information directly about consultants... What's going on with the consultants. ( FROM a faction: “On the demand! ” ) I have requested for all 340 institutions what money is being made (Interior: Ask the driver!) ) was spent, but I still could not receive it (even in my own commission, in the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit, I could not receive it!) the names of those names and amounts. I could not get information where “Riga traffic” spent 110 thousand over three years and who are responsible for alternative fuel consultations (SASKAŅA: “On the topic!” )... whose persons were responsible for spending 437 thousand consultations on employee well-being. 102 000 have been spent in consultations on European Union funds. We know very well that Members who have been consultants are also sitting here. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Papule: “Sitting Manager, what is it about?” ) 89 thousand have been spent evaluating the type of payment for car parks, and 94 thousand have also been consulted on real estate and construction issues. Can you, please, send a message to Riga City Council, so that at last you will start to answer our submissions as well? Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U15	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U16	Colleagues! I do not think the first request, nor the last one, but I felt the most interesting speech by Mr Zakatistova today. I think no one's trying to delay in any way. I think Mr. Zarins, after the best consciousness, is trying to directly encourage the OIC question or... I think that the OIC issue is not even the most important issue for people. It's important what this payment is there, the main thing is how much a person pays for electricity. And that is what concerns me at the moment: there is no signal that something is being done to really reduce electricity payments. On the contrary, I think that electricity bills for such a policy could only increase. ( Subtotal: “It is not true! ”) ) The next thing to do, where... Mr. Zakatistov, you say you need time. You need to understand what the length of time is. If it is that we are going to wait for these authorisations to expire, just to expire their deadlines, it would already be quite regrettable. What is the full mandate of the Saeima - the full mandate of the Saeima is about stopping these permits, not to expect them quite simply to expire. Colleagues! I think this demand is in place. And I think this will not be the only demand. Colleagues from CPV LV! You have the full mandate of the Saeima to act. You have ministers - the Minister for Economic Affairs, the Minister for the Interior, also the Minister for Welfare. All of you get together, then! You have already missed one budget when you had the opportunity to deal with these issues, and now there will be the next budget. I think that at the moment you do not show any signs that I would really like to deal with the substance of this issue.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U17	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U18	Hello! I'll start a little bit with history. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following Motif for voting: on the abolition of the mandatory procurement component with effect from 31 March 2019. ‘ 86 Members of the Saeima voted in favour, including at least eight ministers from that government. Named members of the coalition who voted in favour of the abolition of the OIC on 31 March: Aldis Adamovičs (New Unity), Arvils Asheraden (New Unity), Dagmars Beitnere-Le Galla (New Conservative Party), Iveta Benhena-Beken (KPV LV), Aldis Blumbergs (KPV LV), Mārtiņš Bondars (For Development/Par!). ), Jānis Bordāns (New Conservative Party), Uldis Budriķis (New Conservative Party), Jānis Dombrava (National Association), Raivis Dzintars (National Association), Gatis Eglitis (New Conservative Party), Krišjānis Feldmans (New Conservative Party) (Interface: “Te!” ), Maria Golubeva (for Development/About!) ), Inese Iksten ( “Development/About!” , Ilze Indriksone (National Association), Ritvars Jansons (National Association), Andrejs Judins (New Unity), Juris Juris Juras (New Conservative Party), Artuss Kaimiņš (KPV LV), Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš (New Conservative Party), Rihards Kols (National Association), Janīna Kursīte-Pakule (National Association), Janīna Kursīte (KPV LV), Ainars Latkovskis (New Unity), Linda Liepiņa (KPV LV), Tālis Linkaits (New Conservative Party), Dace Melbārde (National Association), Anita Muižniece (New Conservative Party), Ināra Mūrniece (National Association), Romanas Mūriņš (National Association), Ralfs Nemiro (KPV LV), Linda Ozola (New Conservative Party), Artis Pabriks (‘ Attivity/Par!’ ), Daniel Paviluts (‘ Development/About!’ , Ramona Petraviča (KPV LV), Ēriks Pucens (KPV LV), Ivars Puga (KPV LV), Juris Pūce ( “Development/Par!” ), Juris Rancāns (New Conservative Party), Sandis Riekstins (New Conservative Party), Edgars Rinkēvičs (New Unity), Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska (For Development/About!) ), Inguna Rībena (National Association), Karina Sprūde (KPV LV), Mārtiņš Staķis (For Development/About!) ), Juta Strīķe (New Conservative Party), Edwin Schnore (National Association), Ilga Šuplinska (New Conservative Party), Edmunds Teirumnieks (National Association), Vita Anda Steel (For Development/About!) ), Jānis Vitenbergs (KPV LV), Inese Voika ( “Developing/Par!” ), Atis Zakaitistov (KPV LV), Evita Zālite-Grosa (New Conservative Party), Reinis Znotiņš (New Conservative Party) and Normunds Gunna (New Conservative Party). On 10 January 2019 these members of the coalition voted in favour of the abolition of the OIC by 31 March of this year. There was no reason for these Members that it is very difficult, very difficult, something impossible and similar. If these Members did not have any information when voting on such a case on 10 January 2019, then it can be concluded that either they lied to voters and the public or they are totally incompetent. There is no other option. I want to believe that actually... Who do I want to believe? Both options are bad. Either incompetent or lying. What, though, is essential in this context? Electricity prices, which are among the highest in Europe, have caused Latvia to experience a significant decline in the pace of development during the new fantastic government at the beginning of this year. And as the media write, it means less revenue in the state budget. The OIC is one of the reasons why we have a significant decline in our pace of development. On the arguments from the coalition that it is difficult that it is difficult, I would like to say that we are hearing such arguments on every question. I am sorry if something is too difficult for you to make your promises, to make your votes, then maybe you should not be Members of the Saeima... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Herbs-Gross intermediate call.) Perhaps the Members of the Saeima and the decision-makers should become people who have no difficulty in fulfilling the promises... who don't have to get a little bit of schizophrenic... voting for the OIC not to be held on 31 March, but today, on 16 May, saying that we will be working for a long time, a long time, and even when the OIC will be abolished. Similarly, even though there will be “3 × 500” at some point, it was promised as of 1 January 2019. Or some other pre-election promises will also be fulfilled. Perhaps in the next Saeima, maybe when we retire and change the composition of the Saeima - maybe then these promises will be implemented. I cannot understand whether we really think that society is so silly. Do you really think you can simply brutally fail to do what you voted for? One more thing. Regarding the vote, which took place on 10 January 2019... A very important point must be made regarding the uncompromising rule of law. During the existence of the Latvian Parliament this is the first case when the Cabinet of Ministers does not execute the parliament... with the force of the law... adopted by the vote... I want to draw the attention of the whole of society to this. Therefore, if our government, or the Cabinet of Ministers, namely both the Prime Minister and the Ministers of the Government, is not able to comply peacefully with the decision of the Saeima or parliament, because the OIC has not been repealed by 31 March, then the same reasoning can be used by every member of society in relation to any violation of the law. For if the decisions of the Saeima may not be carried out by the Prime Minister, why should decisions and laws of the Saeima be carried out by teachers, police officers or others? I think it is not an uncompromising rule of law, but an absolute legal nihilism. It's an absolute ridicule for people. Why is the OIC not repealed? Because the OIC millionaires we have, by the way, also from one of the national-oriented parties, where there is someone who is usually driven to serve as a Prime Minister. He has never wanted to be a Prime Minister, but has always been a Prime Minister candidate. Why is the OIC going on? Because we have liberal politicians who are in power at the moment and who rename themselves (i.e. the old Unity called the New Unity) and who are obviously related to some OIC sponsors. The OIC has benefits for some hundreds of people, some near - to - authority people, at the expense of society as a whole. It's actually not a business at all. It is simply an excavation of money from the country just because the country has given about the double tariff... which should be received in such a case. And the result is what we have already seen in the press, in various photographs - that it is no longer profitable in Latvia to grow cereals, that this grain... unfermented are ground and processed before... not when the harvest comes, but is processed, I apologize, shit to... the more can be obtained from the OIC. This is not the right system! It slows down competition and has naturally led to a fall in our growth rates during this government. One more thing to say. Could it be a positive thing, if? Maybe... It would be a call to the government and to the coalition factions of governments. In fact, you can do nothing safely, do not make any decisions and always say that you are hard - that you have difficulty removing OICs, you have difficulty in introducing “3 × 500”, it is difficult to make any decision for the public. For example, it is difficult for a national association to vote in favour of multi-child families when such proposals are tabled. Why do I call you to this? Why do I call on you to maintain your argument that everything is too difficult for you? The more you maintain this argument, the faster you vote from the parliament. And that will be the great benefit of society! Therefore, I call on you on every issue with a serious face to climb the platform. In any matter that is in the public interest and that you do not want to deal with, try with a serious face in the courtroom and say that “we are too hard” that “we will work, think, but do not solve because it is too difficult for us”! Then we will sooner or later come to a parliament that will not be too difficult to resolve these issues! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U19	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U20	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, In this regard, there are people who benefit from money, people who benefit from pleasure, because I think they are shocked by this very subject. And there are people who benefit professionally, because this theme is being used all the time to be able to talk about OIC at this platform. I have a suspicion, Mr. Zarins... You signed up... I suspect that those who enjoy it and those who benefit from it have released their steam. There is no longer any power to write requests. I suspect that in the near future, we will be waiting for an OIC investigation commission here in the Saeima. In the coming weeks, we will see if my suspicions will come true. Colleagues! That's the truth in the studio! (Applause) Impression: “It was fun for you?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U21	The name is Sandy Riekstin. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U22	Hello, colleagues! I could thank Mr. Zarins... I think at this moment, in this parliamentary term, everyone knows what OIC is about, about, around and against. Thank you very much. But we can release all ministers every Thursday, write requests and change them every Thursday, but what will change, colleagues? Absolutely nothing! Mr Zarins, you are also in the composition of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission and you are well aware that the Minister for Economic Affairs has already presented an action plan that will be done, which you have recognised as good, but you have not said any word about it today. Then we're talking to the end! But to whom I would like to invite you, Mr. Zarins... Is that so? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “You better invite your minister!” ) Your party at the Riga City Council has created OIK-2, but you don't wear a shirt there, there you don't turn against your colleagues with some excuses for these sums of money. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “Millions of the Afero!” ) If you are such a fighter of righteousness, fight, Mr. Zariņš, also where there is, where money has been taken, and then I will believe you. I don't believe you right now. And I call, colleagues, not to support this. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U23	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U24	Hello, colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! It is clear that the entry of this government and the head of the OIC as the Prime Minister clearly made it impossible for the OIC to be abolished in this government. Ivars Zarins will continue to write requests, and the Minister will respond. I'm sorry... and Ralph Nemiro knows very well. Unfortunately, Ralph Nemiro knows that KPV LV cannot send this government at the moment at home, because one of our queues will always give the 51st vote. And unfortunately, this government will exist and fall regardless of KPV LV. But I definitely don't want to criticise Ralph Nemir. What he can do and, I hope, he can prepare the documents for the next government during his ministerial term. And that's... The next one in this respect, too... What can I do is help him... It's exactly... next Thursday will be the establishment of an investigative commission... create this background with the help of an investigative commission, which will lead to a situation where the next government will no longer be able to cancel... because, as we know, the representatives of the prosecutor's office are obliged and entitled to participate in the investigation commission. I think that almost everyone invited will lay some ground for further action, because the extent of the facts, largely due to Ivars Zarins, has already been collected so that these things are inevitable. So we are setting up a commission next week, which will support the Minister who wants to abolish. And... Yes, then, as they say, it will not be far away from the next government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U25	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U26	Some things. First thing. How do I think the coalition parties in power are lacking in this debate? Their representatives are coming up at the platform and... We have here in the Saeima and outside the hall, such humor... For example, such humor is: if Sandis Riekstins walks in the platform, then the new conservative party's arguments have come to an end. That's the joke. (Applause) But more importantly... Why do I mention this? I do not mention it for any reason, I mention it for the reason that, in my opinion, coalition parties in the tributary should not have the false opposition that the opposition is doing anything or not doing anything... I am not talking about whether it is good or bad, but I am talking about the fact that coalition parties should go on the table and come forward with concrete proposals on every issue. But, in fact, we have the fact that the coalition is on the table, saying that the coalition can't do anything, and that only the opposition is martyred, even though power is right for the coalition. I think that a power politician must have the courage. Who has purpose, courage, and confidence. For someone like you, KPV LV, who has promised before the elections, you can climb the platform and say: “OIC is a problem. Despite the difficulties, we will solve this problem by such and by such a date. The result will be exactly this time." I think that this would be a responsible task for the politician, too, on this issue. ( Internouncing call.) That's one thing. The other thing. For CPV LV. I have criticised you and I am not afraid to criticise you now. Let us be honest! You went to government not to cancel the OIC (because the OIC has not yet been abolished, you will agree). You went to government because you needed your own positions. One of you needed some kind of position. That's the problem. If we are talking about a long-term and a politician who wants to work in the long term, then there should be no fear of losing his post. You should be afraid not to execute your program. Because for the time being, this is the situation... if you are looking not only at the LV side of the KPV, but on any coalition party – KPV LV, KP, National Association, New Unity and Development/About! - and if we value what is included in the budget, then it must be said that the budget does not actually incorporate the most important pre-election promises of any party. No coalition party! In fact, the entire coalition has completely fooled society. That is possible. Of course, this is possible in Latvia, because in Latvia society is too busy. Apparently coalition politicians think that this chasm will always and forever remain that Latvian voters will forget all this, forgive, disprotect and so on. But it will end in one moment! And I'll explain to you immediately when it will end. It should be noted that the pace of development in Latvia has already significantly decreased in the first half of this year. Significantly decreased! And that is what the European Commission says! The more the pace of development and the greater poverty our people will live, the sooner the time when the people will no longer be fooled will come. Therefore, I pray and call - we should not be afraid! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Lejiņš: “No one is afraid!” ) Nothing will change if you have a salary that is more than a thousand times higher or a wage that is less than a thousand times higher. Perhaps it would be more courageous to hold on to your pre-election promises, to show the spine, and not to be in the government just to have a craftsman there. I think it's not a task... and the promise that we, all 100 people here, made to the voters before the elections. We started in the elections and came here with the aim of fulfilling our promises and working for the benefit of Latvian people, Latvian society. Also deliver the promise of abolishing the OIC by 31 March this year, that is, one and a half months ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U27	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U28	That is what I am used to, that at the time when I began to rightly and reasonablely criticise things that are unpleasant to the ruling elite, and it has no counter-probation, then move directly to my individual and begin to criticise me. Not talking about the thing, but trying to shift it, as you say, to the messenger. I experienced this about 10 years ago, when I first pointed out to the OIC, that it was forming and that the consequences were serious. So... and proved it with calculations and facts. In order not to have a discussion with me, there was a similar rhetoric at that time - said that Zarins was the enemy of national energy. He went further in conspiracy theory - in lobbying Gazprom's interests and similar things, so that there is no need to discuss all of this. It has now proved true. My calculations have been confirmed, so I am talking about them here, too. It was very strange to hear that some colleagues believe that the fact that you are doing your job well is an opportunity to get here. Everyone certainly has his own understanding of why he does this work. I have come here to serve my people, my country, which I do for the best of my integrity, as I have sworn. If someone thinks that by doing this job I can get a lot of pleasure - try! Try how much pleasure you will have to do 14-16 hours a day without a holiday! Not just your daily life will suffer. Your health and all other things will suffer. It absolutely does not bring any pleasure, but I continue to do it because I have decided to bring the case to the end. Why I have not written the current request at the moment: I really do give the Minister for Economic Affairs the opportunity to fulfil his promises, and indeed, as Mr Riekstin rightly said, the Minister for Economic Affairs has made promises, as he will, by offering the measures I offered to the Ministry of Economic Affairs a year ago. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “He wasn’t here a year ago!” ) The Ministry of Economics has now understood that these measures must be carried out and that they will be carried out. Very good! We give this opportunity to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and I call on you, my colleagues, to follow. Now there will be an amendment to the Electricity Market Act; we expect the Ministry of Economics to come up with something new. In principle, these proposals have already been tabled. Just leave them to be approved and go ahead. Let us see whether the Ministry of Economics really wants to address this issue or is simply preparing another game. In particular, the UK, follow up if you have an important question of the rule of law. As for the accusations that I hear all the time, why Zarins does not follow Riga City Council... Is that so? Sorry, I am a member of the Saeima and, as a member of the opposition parliament, I play my sanitary role here following power. Just like you, Mr. Riekstins, as the opposition should have done in the Riga Council. The fact that you are coming here and always complain about what is happening in the Riga City Council shows that you are unable to do something there. I really have a valid question - what did you do in the Riga City Council if all these things begin to appear now that you have left there! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Feldman and Depp. S. Riekstins.) Maybe you've been involved there and just feel offended about what's happening without you. I really don't understand! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “Don’t fuck up! Don’t dress up!” ) So, in my opinion, let us all do our job. Focus on what needs to be done now. If you really want to prove that you understand something and are able to do it to your country, then, please - there will be amendments to the electricity market law right away, we are working with them! Prove it! It really is a real opportunity to sort out this area. Let us give the people the opportunity to make sure of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U29	The name to the Member Reject Zakaistov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U30	I believe in Ivar Zariņš. I believe he's turning to his oath. Because he's sworn eight times from the same platform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U31	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added after the debate on behalf of the Appeals Commission, which can be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U32	Yeah. I would just remind you that in the Commission, with four votes in favour and seven against, it is recognised that Members' request must be rejected. Consequently, there is no reason to accept this request as a request by the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U33	Please call me! We will vote for a Member Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Krišāns, Valija Agešina, Jānis Adamsons, Jānis Tutina, Inga Goldbergas, Edgars Kucina, Vladimirs Nikonova, Boriss Cilevičs and Ivans Klementievs, Minister for Economic Affairs Ralf Nemiro, about the avoidance of the Minister of Economics to provide information on the implementation of the decision of the Saeima of 10 January 2019 on the abolition of the mandatory procurement component! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 30, for - 51, for - 1. The request is therefore rejected. Requests received by Members. Dear colleagues, We have received a request from Member Viktors Valaiņa, Armands Krauze, Ulda Augulis, Raimonds Bergmanis, Janis Dūklavs, Janina Jalinska, Gundars Dauges, Anda Chakša, Julia Stepanenko and Māra Kučinska to the Minister of the Interior, Sandis Ģirgens, about possible inaction of the European Parliament elections to sabotage and the Minister of the Interior. The applicants have asked for a statement of reasons. Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U34	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Members! We have prepared a request to the Minister for the Interior on the possible failure of the European Parliament elections to sabotage and the Minister for the Interior. ( Internouncing call.) Of many people, voters, we receive complaints that they have not received a statement of where they are to appear on the election day. This is a complete irresponsibleness, knowing how low the voter's involvement in the elections to the European Parliament is. The last time there was just over 30 percent. It has to be said that the Minister of the Interior has the greatest responsibility in this case because the law has been violated. What does the law prescribe? The institution under the supervision of the Minister of the Interior, the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs, had to ensure that 70 days before the elections, a notice was sent by post to the address of the residence of every voter in Latvia and information about where he was listed. This has not been done. More! The Law on the Structure of the State Administration also states that the Minister of the Interior is responsible for the institution under his supervision. In particular, the law provides that: ‘In the event of an unlawful act or unlawful act, supervision shall mean the right of a higher institution or official to verify the legality of a decision of a lower institution or official and to order a decision to be taken in the event of an unlawful act.’ It has to be said that an invitation to tender for the delivery of these letters was opened. The competition was launched on 23 January (according to the information available in the Electronic Procurement System), and it is the day when Karina's government was approved. Thus, in fact, all responsibility here lies with the Minister of the Interior. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “Look! False!” ) Because in his time this letter delivery agreement was concluded. I think that this is a really very serious violation of the law and that the Minister has a very serious responsibility before the whole Latvian people, because citizens will not be able to participate in elections and fulfil their right under the Constitution to decide on our future, on our membership of the European Union. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U35	Thank you. The request shall be made available to all Members and shall be forwarded to the Request Commission. We're in the process of examining draft laws. On the agenda - draft law “On Amendments to the Satversme of Ventspils University College”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Raivis Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U36	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “On Amendments to the Satversme of Ventspils University College”. No proposals were received for the second reading. The Commission has examined and supported the draft law and invites colleagues to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U37	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On Amendments to the Satversme of Ventspils University College” at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Ministry of the Interior system institutions and the administration of prison places with special service levels in the law on service progress”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U38	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption reviewed and supported the draft law “Amendment to the Ministry of the Interior System Institutions and Administration of Prisons with Special Service Steps in the Law on Service Development” at its meeting on 7 May this year. No proposals have been received and I therefore call for support for this draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U39	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Ministry of the Interior System Authorities and Prison Administration Officers with Special Degrees of Service in the Law on Service Progress” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of wastage of Financial Resources and Property of Public Person”, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U40	Colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Waste of Financial Resources and Property of Public Persons”. Two proposals were received for the third reading and one proposal was also drafted by the Commission... We added. It came up with a proposal from the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government. 1. - a proposal from the Minister of Finance. The Commission was supported. The meaning and nature of all the proposals received at the third reading is that the State is keeping accounts for its real estate, which is entirely correct, but so far no accounts have been kept for the real estate leased out by the State. These proposals are intended to... a new register would be added and there would be common information on what properties the State not only owns but also rents. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U41	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U42	2. - a proposal from the Minister of Finance. Partly supported, included 3. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U43	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U44	Consequently, all the proposals have been examined...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U45	Proposal No 3! That is what Members support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U46	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Yeah. And so all the proposals have been examined. I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U47	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Waste of Financial Resources and Property of Public Persons” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Protection of the Dead’s Body and Use of Human Tissues and Organs in Medicine”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Andris Skride.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U48	Good morning, honourable Mrs. Mourniece! Dear colleagues, So the third reading of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On the protection of the body of the deceased and the use of human tissues and organs in medicine””. 21 proposals were received. 1. - the proposal from the Minister for Health, Ilze Viņķelis. This implies that the single electronic health sector information system intends to provide not only an opportunity to indicate whether a person permits or prohibits the use of his or her body, tissues and organs after death, but also an indication of the purpose of their use, for example for medical use or scientific use. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U49	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U50	2. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. This clarifies the way in which legal representatives express their willingness to allow or prohibit the use of the minor's body, tissues and organs after death by making a mark in the common electronic health sector information system. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U51	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U52	Proposal No 3 - editorial clarification Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U53	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U54	4. - The Member's proposal by John Izalnieks. The proposal is not acceptable as it is conceptual and submitted for the third reading. At second reading, the Saeima voted in favour of the presumed consent to the use of tissues and organs in medicine after death. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U55	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U56	Good morning, colleagues! At the previous reading of the draft law, the presumption was reinforced that if a person has not registered his will for the use of organs or has not expressed his will to relatives or if this will cannot be clarified, it is presumed that human organs and tissues can be used for the benefit of other people. My proposal provides for a directly opposite presumption that, if there is no known human will, which would be registered or expressed to relatives, it is presumed that these tissues cannot be used. In my opinion, there are two perceptions of the world in this presumption. One is the perception that human beings are made up of tissues and organs and utilitarians, of course, these organs can be used for the benefit of other people. The second world view, on the other hand, tells us that a person is also a spirit creature. And that man's will... Only a person can express his will, allowing his organs to be used by other people. We do not have the right to use people without this will, perhaps contrary to his religious or other beliefs, for the benefit of others. So that I call on my colleagues to support my proposal and leave the human body after death in terms of his own will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U57	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U58	In the Commission, the proposal of Member John Izalnieks has not been supported. Please don't support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U59	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - a proposal from the Member's Dealer! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 5, against - 68, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U60	5. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It has not been supported because the Commission agreed that where information on the will of a deceased person is contradictory, it is prohibited to remove the tissues and organs of the deceased.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U61	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U62	6. - the proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs, which is a editorial clarification. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U63	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U64	7. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U65	Members support:
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U66	It means... I'm sorry, can I comment?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U67	Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U68	This includes a ban on the use of the body, tissues and organs of the deceased when the information provided by the relatives present is contradictory. Proposal No 8. Partially supported and included 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U69	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U70	9. - The proposal of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs that a legal norm is necessary for all medical procedures necessary for transplantation to be carried out at the medical institution, at the same time as the will of the deceased person is established. And that's supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U71	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U72	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U73	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U74	11. - a proposal from the Social and Labour Commission clarifying the wording of Article 5 on authorisation or prohibition of pathological examination. In fact, a person can express his will in life by making a note of the health information system. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U75	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U76	Proposal No 12 - Legal Bureau editorial clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U77	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U78	13. - the wording of the proposal of the Legal Office of Chapter III. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U79	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U80	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by including 15. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U81	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U82	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U83	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U84	16. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U85	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U86	17. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partially supported, including 18. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U87	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U88	18. - Commission proposal. Article 12 shall be supplemented by an explanation of the term ‘recipient’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U89	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U90	19. - The proposal of the Social and Labour Affairs Commission to change the entry into force of the legal norms regarding the inclusion of information in the common health information system. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U91	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U92	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U93	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U94	Proposal No 21... Like the 19th proposal, the date of entry into force of the amendments to Article 5 is clarified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U95	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U96	We have examined the proposals, please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U97	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the law “On the Protection of the Dead’s Body and Use of Human Tissues and Organs in Medicine” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - Draft law on the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia to the North Atlantic Treaty, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U98	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! At first reading we look at the draft law on the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia to the North Atlantic Treaty, which has been drawn up in accordance with the actions set out and planned in our government declaration and the underlying tasks included in the chapter on foreign policy. It is also in line with the Foreign Minister's annual report on the work that has been done and planned in the country's foreign policy and the European Union's foreign policy and its policies in particular in the area of security policy, which includes the further enlargement of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and the open door policy. Our country's defence concept also determines that Latvia, as a member of the UN, the European Union, NATO and the OSCE, contributes to the stability of a wider security area by promoting military cooperation and security of countries, arms control, mutual trust and information exchange, as well as by sharing the accumulated experience of democratic, Euro-Atlantic integration, security and defence sector reforms. Last year, in July 2018, at the NATO Summit in Brussels, a decision was already taken on the invitation to the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to open accession negotiations with NATO. On 6 February this year, a Protocol on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia to the North Atlantic Treaty was signed by the authorised permanent representatives of NATO in Brussels. Following the signature of this Protocol, the ratification process has started, during which NATO member states, including Latvia, approve this Protocol of Accession in accordance with national procedures. After all NATO member states have done so, the ratification process of the NATO Protocol will be launched in the Republic of North Macedonia in accordance with its national procedures. In the Commission, the draft law was unanimously approved at first reading and the Commission also asks for it to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U99	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent vote on the recognition of the draft law on the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia to the North Atlantic Treaty! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent. Please call me! Let us vote on the first reading of the draft law on the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia to the North Atlantic Treaty! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U100	On behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I ask you to examine the draft law at second, final, reading without re-examination by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U101	Are Members opposed to the second reading of the draft law without a re-examination by the Commission? There is no objection. Please call me! We will vote on the draft law on the second, final reading of the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia to the North Atlantic Treaty! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Divestment of Real Estate for the Installation of the State Border Strip of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation” (No. 64/Lp13), first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U102	Dear colleagues, During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 7 May of this year, the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Divestment of Real Estate for the Installation of the State Border Strip of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation” (No. 64 Lp13). The draft law is intended to dispose of real estate adjacent to the border, in Zaļesjes parish, in Zilupe municipality, part... the part of the land in the area of 0,0875 hectares located in the border area of the country to carry out the introduction of the border between the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation. The Legal Commission has supported the first reading of the draft law. I call on my colleagues to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U103	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Divestment of Real Estate for the Installation of the State Border Strip of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation” (No. 64/Lp13) at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U104	Deadline for submission of proposals - 21 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U105	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 21 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Divestment of Real Estate for the Installation of the State Border Strip of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation” (No. 246/Lp13), first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U106	During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 7 May of this year, the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Divestment of Real Estate for the Installation of the State Border Strip of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation” (No. 246/Lp13). The draft law provides for the disposal of real estate adjacent to the border, located in the border zone: “First Kumeliņš” in Zaļesjes municipality, Zilupe municipality, the land unit 0,0157 hectares area, as well as the real estate “Klusumiņš” in Zaļesje municipality, Zilupe municipality, the part of the land unit in the area of 0,0825 hectares. The area may be specified after the cadastral measurement of the land. The Legal Commission has supported the first reading of the draft law. I call on my colleagues to support them.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U107	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Divestment of Real Estate for the Installation of the State Border Strip of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation” (No. 246/Lp13) at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U108	Deadline for submission of proposals - 21 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U109	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 21 May this year. Please call me! Please register the Members! Time for notifications. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U110	Colleagues! I would like to thank the Saeima basketball team, especially the most successful player Rainis Znotiņš and the team's captain Mārtiņš Bondars! (Applause) For the first time in Latvia... Parliaments... The Latvian team won the Baltic Assembly tournament so that it is a special success. I think everyone who has participated knows with what hope we have always done... and this time it's won. Thank you to the whole team! Everyone really was great! (Applause) The cup is in this room for journalists - you can go see what we fought for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U111	Congratulations! Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U112	Colleagues! Those Members who are in the group to facilitate cooperation with the Japanese Parliament at 12.30 a.m. in the Red Hall have a meeting with the ambassador! It's 12.30!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U113	Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U114	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla, Uldis Budriķis, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Ivans Klementjevs, Rihards Kols, Linda Liepiņa, Romanas Naudiņš, Vitalijs Orlovs, Ramona Petraviča, Karina Sprūde, Edmunds Teirumnieks, Jānis Vitenbergs, Jānis Vucāns and Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U115	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U116	Honourable Members! Let's get back to the Saeima after the break! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber! On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Secret”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U117	Good afternoon, colleagues! In its meeting, the Saeima Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption has examined the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Secret”” (No. 293/Lp13). Six proposals were received. The proposal is the proposal of Member Alda Gobzems, the essence of which is to amend the first paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on State Secrets, and to provide in a specific, separate article the procedure whereby Members of the Saeima should be granted admission to national secrecy. The Commission did not support this proposal from Member Alda Gobzem. The arguments are as follows: Representatives of various ministries and national security authorities were invited to the meeting of the Commission. Both their arguments and those of Mr Gobzem were heard. The Commission's arguments are as follows: the current system, which gives preventive consideration to Members before issuing allowances at international level, is, according to the national safety authorities, recognised as very good. It is stable, balanced and has been in existence for a long time, preventing various security risks that are not addressed by the electoral process. Because the electoral process is not and cannot be equivalent to that process, the arrangements by which national security authorities operate when assessing specific candidates who would or should not be granted admission to national secrecy. The Commission, which is composed of people's elected Presidents (in this case five out of six did not support this proposal by Mr Gobzem), considers that the consequences that can be achieved by giving all Members light and automatic tolerance to national secrets can be far more damaging than if they do not. Therefore, colleagues, the Commission's decision is as follows: I understand that Mr Gobzem wants to debate. I'm... On behalf of the Commission, everything has already been said.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U118	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U119	Dear colleagues, The substance of the proposal is as follows: That is the absurdity that is happening at the moment with regard to the issue of allowances! I'll explain to you. Parliament shall exercise parliamentary oversight over security services. So Members of Parliament are the ones who supervise the security services. But to monitor the security services... The safety authority to be monitored shall evaluate who will be able to monitor. Is greater absurd at all possible?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What do I mean? I want to say that the system so far... What is in Latvia does not exist in any other European Union and even... in reality in any NATO Member State. The President of the United States gets tolerance not... he doesn't even get a pardon... he has no such need. Estonia, Lithuania... Let us call any country where there is no such order. There can be no situation that one Jānis Maizinis is higher than 844 thousand voters of the Republic of Latvia. This is not democratic. In this context, I propose making an exception to this amendment by making certain arrangements for Members of the Saeima, as elected representatives of the people, which will be explained in the context of the next proposals, when they will be the subject of a question. But what I want to say in particular... I personally have had the opportunity to see how the issue of state secrecy is being examined. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the fact that our Constitutional Protection Office is an organisation that... Now I can say this from my personal experience... manipulate this issue in order to maintain the interests of some of its narrow groups. Let me give you some examples. In Latvia, there has been a person in the bags of the cheque with the surname Pugulis as a two-time Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior and Minister of Finance. I am talking about Ivar Godman. In Latvia, security services have prohibited the sale of Radio SWH to Meroni-related companies, but at the same time Meroni is the custodian of property in Lembergs criminal case in the interests of the state. On the one hand, the security service so says - Meroni is dangerous for the Republic of Latvia, on the other hand, the Constitutional Protection Bureau allows to store this property with Meroni-related people. That is, of course, absurd. Another thing that is absolutely absurd about manipulation. The Constitutional Protection Bureau claims that they need a lot more time in relation to individual leaders of the people. If the Constitutional Protection Office is unable to evaluate public persons who are members of the Saeima within a short period of time, it is absolutely clear that the Constitutional Protection Office is unable to evaluate anything. It cannot find spies, it cannot find threats to our country and so on. I would like to explain with my example what the Constitutional Protection Office was looking for for for half a year in my case. The Constitutional Protection Bureau watched my Facebook tape for six months and tried to find arguments... because at the time when I was at the Constitutional Protection Office and at the time when we talked about the summary that was allegedly presented to me... what I was told by people who are afraid to name their name and surname in these rooms, who are, of course, funny, because when they come to the Saeima, those same people call their name and surname... At that point, they read me morally, as I dared... I dare to put on my Facebook profile a landbook print about the family of Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš and Anda Kariņa, who is the wife of Krišjānis Kariņš, in connection with the former “Pionieris” cinema. How dare I put a message on my Facebook profile before the elections that the lawyer Romuald Vonsovičs has entered the office of Ingus Bērziņš... As in the Czech times of the SAB to me some unknown persons might have cared for or maybe Russian spies, because they didn't stand before me, read morally! There was an argument in public space that SAB has tested something very carefully for half a year. Besides my social network profile, it was tested... where you don't need a special service, where everyone can look at one night... Public national registers have been checked, which can be made within one day! Therefore, there are full grounds to believe that the Constitutional Protection Office is manipulating. I can prove this by my example, and such manipulation is unacceptable in a democratic society. Next, I will explain in more detail how I see the situation that it should be in a democratic country... as it happens in every other country - in our neighbourhood, Estonia, Lithuania, Germany, France... any NATO Member State. Consequently, this issue is only technical, and on this issue... there is only a request, as we say, for Members to make an exceptional procedure. But on the exceptional procedure - on the next proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U120	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U121	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Members, As Chairman of the National Security Commission, I can assure you that parliamentary control over the work of our security services is being carried out on the part of the Commission. It is also enshrined in the law. And I think that the order in which it is done in Latvia is right. It should be borne in mind that in such particularly sensitive matters, such as the admission of state secrets, such as the treatment of one or the other officials, there will always be a sensitive note inside. Given the absence of national work, there are no processes in the country that should not be improved, I really believe that there is still much to be done by our commission, and we, together with the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption... we're still making some clarifications to understand those people who have something or aren't... something has been denied... and not to be at this moment, when the only true "swim" (foot) is... There is Mr. Maizinis and the SAB, which, in fact, can and does not take decisions alone. There is a need for improvement. And, Mr. Gobzem, probably given that you have both appealed this and... A law that has been amended a year ago provides that anyone who is not granted a permit may appeal against it to the courts. Yeah, I have to admit... I say right away, this could also be a precedent after which the Saeima Members will have to draw any conclusions and make some choice. But at the moment I am calling for no exceptions, no experiment with the system that Latvia has chosen. Of course, if the allowances are granted automatically, this is a completely different story, then there is a whole new law, there are completely new rules. Yes, there are countries where it is. We're on this road... Latvia has not chosen. It is therefore up to all of us to make this process impossible to manipulate so that it is not possible to take unfair action. I can fully agree with this. And that's why it's one of our works in this term, too, to watch... At this point, however, I call on everyone to be responsible and not to experiment with such things, not to change the conceptual Latvian system and not to support the change of tolerances. We do not have conditions or soil prepared for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U122	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U123	On behalf of the Commission, I would just like to add one thing about democracy. Within the Commission, five representatives of the people elected (no one) rejected this proposal. I would also like to add the consequences of the easy automatic sharing of these tolerances. ( Internouncing call.) The consequences are defined (Interim: ‘For the Commission!’). )... For the Commission, yes. ( GREEN’S INTERPRETATION) In other words, there is no possibility for voters to check whether a particular candidate for a Member has been taken over by another country, such as Russia. ( FROM the Group.: “On behalf of the Commission! This was not said in the Commission!’ ) Just as voters do not have the opportunity to check and make sure that this person can be entrusted with a state secret, whether this person is not a gambling addict or otherwise a member of the commission of gambling addicts!” ) Therefore, honourable Members and colleagues, if there is... We are voting in favour of this proposal?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U124	Of course we are voting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U125	I call on Alda Gobzem not to support the proposal on special arrangements for Members...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U126	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Gobzem's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 18, for - 50, for - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U127	2. There is also a proposal from Member Alda Gobzem, which... This is the specific article, a supplement by which Aldis Gobzems wishes to state that, following the solemn oath of a Member of the Saeima, it is considered that a Member of the Saeima has obtained a special authorisation for the operation of official secrecy, i.e. this proposal provides for automatic authorisation. The arguments why the commission was 'no' have already been given in advance; if necessary, I can repeat.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U128	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U129	The nature of the proposal is that Members of the Saeima, like those in every democratic country, starting from Estonia and Lithuania, are granted admission to the country's secret, following a solemn oath. The tolerance can be deducted for irregularities in the case of the lack of the state's secrets, for example. But what I want to say is keeping the dangers of addiction... In the previous parliamentary term, there was a member of the National Security Commission who was addicted to gambling and who was photographed on numerous occasions in gambling sites, playing gambling in a clear day. We had a member of the National Security Commission who wrote very loud about car transactions and VAT optimisation. But they had tolerances! My named Czech bag hero... he had a tolerance - a NATO tolerance! And if we compare the fact that our country has the best order... our country is the only one where such a system exists, and the only one where this issue is manipulated. There can be no Mikeitis or an inspector Caps from the Constitutional Protection Bureau, who is higher than 844 thousand people who come to the elections. It's not democratic! It is not democratic either because, in my personal experience, the issues that have been presented as the greatest threat to the country... There were three questions: The fact that I put a landbook print on my Facebook social network about the former cinema Pioneer. Number one. ( Interface: “We have already heard it! ” ) Number two. The fact that I put a message on my Facebook profile that Ingus Bērziņš entered Vonsovičs' office. This is a huge threat to the country. And the third thing. The fact that I have asked the public authorities to clarify information is the most serious infringement of national secrecy. I was not asked at the Constitutional Protection Bureau any remote question that would be related to some services, spies, institutions of other countries or similar. I was asked private questions about my profile on Facebook. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Feldman and Depp. S. Riekstins.) It is not the task of the Constitutional Protection Bureau! And what Mr. Kučinski said that Parliament is already monitoring... but the problem, Mr. Kučinski, is that, in order to carry out the monitoring, the person who will be monitored... namely, the Constitutional Protection Bureau... choose those that... who will be the ones who will monitor. This is not happening in democracy. Consequently, proposals 1 and 2, in fact 3, and 4, which I have tabled, are interrelated. These proposals are linked in the sense that they specify that Members of the Saeima... because they have gained their mandate from the people, there can be nothing higher than their mandate. Members of the Saeima may not be a higher Maisitis or an inspector Caps from the Constitutional Protection Bureau. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “Is there such a thing?” ) Another point to be said in this context. The Constitutional Protection Office is already in breach of the law, for years it violates the law by manipulating what ministers will assess there... There's half a year... or something else... Let’s read the current version of the law “On State Secret”! The current wording of the Law on State Secrets clearly and unequivocally states: ‘The examination of a person must be carried out before the commencement of the employment (service) relationship.’ Thus, in this particular case, the Constitutional Protection Office has already violated the existing law with respect to absolutely all officials who have elected the Saeima or who become ministers, because the obligation to evaluate the granting of admissions to the state secret or refusal to grant admission to the state secret... need to be assessed before taking up their duties. Another absurd thing is, of course: Mr. Miazitis says that he will now appreciate, for example, the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pucem and the Minister for Welfare Ramona Petraviča... It'll be six months! Horriblely complicated! Puce, which has been a public person for years... It's very hard! Inexplicable information. Six months of thinking! On the other hand, in the case of candidates for Presidential office, this verification must be carried out within 10 days. So the test of one person SAB is as if able to perform 10 days, but for other people who are public persons like Puce - half a year can't! Well, if the SAB cannot decide for half a year about Pucis - give or do not give permission - then what the SAB is able to do in Latvia at all? What is it capable of testing? It's important to say that these months are actually extra... is not a question of collecting additional information, but is a question of how... look at the political situation at that time and make a decision, say, in one direction or another... try to figure out some kind of argument. That's it! And if we talk about addiction, we should... Parliament, and therefore also the National Security Commission, which, Mr Rancán, I understand you, should find out whether we have one head of a special service such a nice, round master who has alcohol dependence, who has been seen on several occasions in public events under heavy alcohol influence. ( Internouncing call.) Maybe you should find out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U130	Name to Member Juris Rancan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U131	Dear colleagues, On my behalf, I would like to add something. Mr Gobzem is here to speak and speak with a great deal of light on what comes into his mind. Our special service, on the other hand, does not comment on this situation. And this creates the ground for various speculations. Although, in fact, the situation with refusals to grant tolerances is slightly different. Statistics show something else that the number of appeals against refusals is very small. If I remember correctly, the prosecutor's office this year out of a lot of... Only two complaints have been received in the prosecutor's office, while in the regional court, according to the information at my disposal, there are currently only three complaints. We have also had a very loud historical discussion in the past, for example, when the tolerance to Elita Dreimane was taken away. What was said? Everyone with foam on their lips shouted, they'll appeal, they'll run to Europe! Where is she now? Where's somebody gone? Why do we not see these loud trials? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Gobzem: “It’s an argument?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ Mr. Gobzem, you may be the first. Maybe. But so far we have seen that refusals are not subject to much active appeal. So there's a problem there. On the other hand, if we are talking about democracy... Mr Gobzem, you are not the only elected representative of the people. The Saeima will decide on this matter. I would also like to add a little bit of a mistake to the fact that the SAB can choose its own sampler. Not exactly, colleagues! We know that certain Members are nominated by political groups on specific commissions; the SAB only checks accordingly. And let the test... There must be arguments in order not to allow for a refusal of admission. There must be arguments, because a person can always appeal to both the public prosecutor's office and the court. At present, it seems that most of those who were not granted tolerances had no arguments, and they did not even try to judge. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for no support for the granting of automatic allowances to Members. In order to make it easier for you to take a decision on this issue, however, I would like to point out the possible consequences of lightly giving up allowances. These consequences are defined in Article 3 of the Law on State Secrets. Well, for example, if sensitive information is lost or illegally disclosed, it can cause, let's say, international exacerbations, diplomatic problems. Especially in case of secret disclosure, this may even lead to armed aggression against the state of Latvia. So I am asking to be responsible and to vote against this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U132	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U133	Colleagues! We can, of course, pretend that in our system of admissions everything is fine, but I think objectively I would have to admit that there have long been a huge number of problems and a huge number of questions to which we have not heard the answers from the Constitutional Protection Bureau here, too, in Parliament. I have not spoken on this issue for the first time. I mean, I'm going to give you that kind of insight into the history of 2003 and 2004. I was still working at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, managing the Ministry's Office. It was a time when we joined the European Union and NATO. Several of our ambassadors had to leave their posts for this reason, because during the Soviet years they had occupied certain posts of the Latvian SSR which, as we say, were identifiable by the actual inability not to cooperate with the State Security Committee. Such ambassadors were at least six. I won't name them. That is their own question. We can see some of them in the check card opened this year. That was what NATO was saying. There is a list of professions. I don't know if they were watching our Czech archives, but there were also clear professions where the careers ended. At the same time... In 2007, if I am not wrong... We were already in the European Union and NATO... as Prime Minister, as we know at the moment, the agent in the Czech cart, Pugulis, who received the highest NATO and all possible tolerances. What separates him from the ambassadors who were forced to leave? One of the arguments... when there was a dispute and the Constitutional Protection Bureau highly protected the archives of the Czech... One of the arguments was that perhaps someone who has turned into an agent in these archives now to our Constitutional Protection Office, which is, of course, also a very good question - who has delegated our Constitutional Protection Office to turn former Czech agents into its current agents, and is this not a threat to the state? But when he returned to the Flower, the question is: Did the Flower also pass through as agent at SAB’s disposal? And if it passed, is it not an interference of the security services in political power, if an agent (we, ever their, now our) becomes a prime minister? In my opinion, this is a direct interference in democratic processes. We have had many other interesting experiences. For example, the Minister for Health, Guntis Belēvičs, was granted a half-yearly, temporary allowance. So he's safe for half a year, but after half a year he won't be sure, so... approximately already knowing that the Minister could have become insecure to the Latvian state during the six months. There are some other nuances that do not withstand criticism... on that... where there are those who have not turned to justice. Because you know very well that after the judgment of the Constitutional Court in the case of Lazdiņš... the possibility to turn to court is very recent, and the previous... and cannot be addressed to those who have been refused the judgment of the Constitutional Court, only those who will now request tolerances. So the accusation that someone has not turned to court simply does not withstand logical criticism. What else is interesting? What makes you ask questions? At one time, you remember, the tolerances weren't given quite quickly... That time was much shorter than it is now. Why? One of the arguments that sound in this house is that, of course, there was no possibility of appeal at that time. Now the office is forced to gather sufficient evidence so that they have good reasoning in the event of an appeal and do not lose them in court. I'm sorry, this means that in the past, when the appeal was not possible... “ Oh, let’s not! It will not do anything!” Appeal to the Prosecutor General at that time... does not meet any criticism. The Prosecutor General is himself the beneficiary of the admission, and the Prosecutor General... his task was not to verify the facts as to whether the information was collected objectively. He just had a question: do you have any facts? And the decision is based on facts. But the relevance of the facts... The authenticity and relevance of the reports of the rapporteurs (probably former Czech agents, who are now working in the Constitutional Protection Bureau) were not verified. In that sense, we have taken a step forward. The case has opened up a trial. But if we compare ourselves with the other NATO countries, then we must admit here, there is a huge problem. I'm sorry, Kurt, Cont, Erdogan, Orban - everyone is running their countries, no one's permissions have been removed. So I understand that today we will not vote for anything, but this is really an important issue, and we cannot just miss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U134	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U135	Dear colleagues, It is really very difficult to understand why the state can have secrets from elected representatives of the people. And in response to the arguments put forward by Mr. Rancán, that if one of the people's elected representatives could unwittingly trigger, for example, a diplomatic scandal... I actually have a very good example that this cannot be the case at all. That is, when we looked at the EU-US Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership Treaty in the previous Saeima, the so-called TTIP, all of them! - Members of the Saeima, irrespective of the existence or absence of a tolerance, had the opportunity and the right to... When signing for possible responsibility for the disclosure of this information, he was entitled to get acquainted with the secret protocols of this agreement on the premises of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Of course, it is unnecessary to say that the disclosure of this information was threatened... if at least one of the Members of the Saeima had disclosed... According to the information provided to us by the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there was a threat of an international scandal and a breakdown of negotiations for all countries. If Members of the Saeima, irrespective of the tolerance, were given this opportunity, which could have really disrupted an important deal, then I really do not understand why this type of inspection should be carried out here, in our narrow circle, for the various other posts. And finally, with regard to Mr Rancan's strange argument that, if there is no appeal, everyone is probably satisfied with everything. Let's look at that thing differently! Very often, many people appeal against speed violations. Does this mean that we should amend the law and increase the speed if your logic is taken into account? Well, it happens: The more appeals on the subject, the more convinced it is that the law must probably be amended. No, it's not. I understand that those people who have not appealed have their own motivation, and I think you are not entitled to speak on their behalf. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U136	I'm closing the debate... The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur have anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U137	No, nothing is to be added.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U138	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Gobzem's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 19, for - 53, for - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U139	3. There is also a proposal from Member Alda Gobzem, which relates to everything that has been done. This proposal provides that a member of the Saeima, who has received special authorisation, shall sign an undertaking letter and assume the responsibilities incumbent upon him in the event of disclosure of the information in question. The Commission did not, of course, support this proposal. The arguments were referred to above.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U140	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Are there any objections to both debates (Interfaces: Yes!) )... Is that so? There are objections to merging the two times of the debate? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Please call us! Let us vote in favour of bringing together the two times of the debate for Member Aldim Gobzem in the debate on proposal 3! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -63, for -2 and for -3. Both times of the debate are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U141	3. The meaning of the proposal is as follows: As in the democratic world, it is quite logical, in fact, in every neighbouring country of our Union, in every other country of the European Union, in every country of NATO, that prior to getting to know the documents containing the state's secrets, an appropriate letter of commitment must be signed, and if the person concerned, who has signed and familiarized with the documents containing the state's secrets, discloses this secret, automatically takes up criminal responsibility and then withdraws the admission to the state's secrets. It is in a normal, developed world, not in Latvia, which is the only country where... we degrade ourselves, telling on television for months that we have terriblely dangerous ministers who have to test for half a year. At the same time, as Didzis Schmidt rightly pointed out, there are NATO Member States where the people who lead these countries - Trump, Orban, Konte, Erdogan... they all have tolerances in NATO... because they are people elected by the people, and that is also quite logical. What I would like to say with regard to the tolerance of state secrecy is quite clear that in Latvia there is not a tolerance of state secrecy, but a tolerance of political mafia. We already see in this House, for ourselves, that people who consistently fail to fulfil their promises, people who have been in power for a long time and who have not fulfilled their promises... and then there is also the Constitutional Protection Bureau... which is very interesting... I would like to say this from the parliamentary troupe and I would also like to draw the attention of the National Security Commission, its Chairman, Mr Kučinskis, and a member of the Commission, Mr Rancāns... How can it be that such Romuald Vonsovičs has such a huge influence in the Constitutional Protection Office that his complaints are accepted as absolute truth without examining their content? Couldn't it be that Vonsovičs is simply a family friend of Jānis Maizins and attends the private events of Jānis Maizins? Maybe that's why Mikey Vonsovich's complaints... believes that this is what needs to be assessed most, more than anything else in terms of the country's risks? How can it be that the Constitutional Protection Office has such a huge influence from individual persons who have also been... Mr. Latkovsky's lawyer from the party. Why has the party never had such problems with tolerance? Because it is a means of fighting political competitors - for example, Mr Puce - against Mrs Petraviča. It is a way to get ministers or Members, people's elected Presidents, to keep a little quiet, so as not to object to what the old Unity is doing, so as not to object to an escapism. Don't give God, you'll lift your head a little higher, and you'll try this way with this special service, as you say, turn oxygen. It is logical that the special service will come and say that the current system is the best. But when you ask your commission a question about what would then be the huge changes to be made to the procedure, Mr. Freimanis, Deputy Director of the Constitutional Protection Bureau, is unable to answer this question, because in fact, in the procedure of such changes, how... Otherwise, there is no need for verification at all. Because the question of a Member of the Saeima receiving a formal vote (I am talking about formality!) Forgive... This is respect for the will of the people. But when he's actually getting a document, he's in every document, like in criminal proceedings... We have a number of people here in the room who know how paper is signed in criminal proceedings, and they sign that they will not disclose information. On the other hand, if they express themselves, they will be put in prison for it. And that's a much bigger responsibility. We know that most of the country's mystery, so-called (footsteps!) state secret, is the news shown in the news story by “Latvian Television” or “TV 3” or another channel. We had a time when we had all the materials of criminal proceedings every Sunday... from special services... was on live television. All this is a secret that other people sign for, but all that is at the disposal of journalists. So someone has already leaked it from these institutions. How can it be that Member Gobzem learns earlier than these two ministers that Minister Ģirgen and Minister Nemiro have been granted permission? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Yes, how can it be?” ) It is possible only because the Constitutional Protection Bureau and Jānis Maizitis have passed through as a Swiss cheese - they allow Meroni to be the custodian of the property in Lembergs criminal case and at the same time prohibit being... Forbidden to buy “RADIO SWH” because Meroni is dangerous for the Republic of Latvia. The problem is very simple – Jānis Maizinis does not care about the security of Latvia. He takes care of a particular aesthetic... the continuation of power politicians for as long as possible. That's his only task. And if you have not heard it, I will repeat again to the National Security Commission in this regard (and I say this consciously from the public from the tribunal): is this not the time to check whether we are in a special service... What kind of mindful manager does not depend on alcohol and can alcohol addicts get admission to national mystery? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U142	Name to Member Juris Rancan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U143	Thank you. We hear the same thing all the time, but I would like to say something about the substance. In other words, such a statement of commitments is exceptionally admissible, but it does not solve itself, the most important. This check, which is carried out by a special service to a candidate who wishes to obtain admission in connection with his/her duties... In other words, there may be situations where the undertaking article is given to such a person, but it is in very, very, very rare cases. Such an examination, I believe, must be, and then we can work accordingly - when the opinion is that we are all right. So thank you. I call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U144	The proposal is, in the opinion of the Commission, put to the vote or not?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U145	On behalf of the Commission, I have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U146	The proposal is not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U147	Yes, rightly, the proposal was not put to the vote. So... The next proposals are also linked... The next one is 4. - the proposal made by Member Alda Gobzem, the nature of which is that a Member may be deprived of his admission only if he has already disclosed information of a particular national secret. The Commission did not support this proposal. The arguments were referred to above.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U148	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Are there any objections to merging the time of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U149	Gist of this proposal... actually they all come out of each other... is as follows: Where a Member has signed an undertaking and has criminalised himself for the disclosure of state secrets, he shall be held liable in the event of an infringement both by criminal law and by the State, each of them shall deprive him of the admission to national secrecy. This is the order in all developed democracies. From Estonia. And don't be surprised that in Estonia people... In Estonia people live better than in Latvia, precisely because there is much, much more developed democracy, there is no tolerance to political mafia, but there is real democracy. What I would like to say about an issue that was very, very strange in the Constitutional Protection Bureau... And that strange question was that Gobzem was told... Whereas, in Czech times, morals were read as to whether Gobzem may or may not be added to his Facebook profile to Karina and Karina's family... on the former Pioneer cinema, about a million deals with offshores... put simply a landbook printout, a public register printout. This is a huge threat. But Kariņš himself has obtained permission to state secret, and the Constitutional Protection Bureau has not verified, even did not want to verify, has not even started verification of these transactions, which is indicated in the relevant land books print about the former “Pionieris” cinema in Riga, Skolas iela 2. How can that be the case? They have to take care of security! Because in the case of Kariņš, large amounts of money in Latvia has been influxed from Russia! It's very likely that in the form of money laundering... and the Constitutional Protection Office it is okay. This is another example of how... in addition to all Cheque bag flowers, in addition to the fact that during a few days, among other things, Andris Šķele, Ainārs Šlesers... I can go on with this list. Keep going very much. These examples prove that the Constitutional Protection Office does not implement the democratic process, but is the continuation of the Soviet check. Because there is no secret - Maisitis is a Soviet-era product, a Soviet-era prosecutor who apparently wants to continue the Soviet-era traditions in his work in the 21st century. The result is that these manipulations in Latvia are possible. The purpose of these proposals is to prevent all possible manipulations, to make this process identical to all Members, to establish an identical level of responsibility and, in fact, to go to the same regime in our neighbouring countries, so that our country does not have the existing system. One more thing to say. We're worried about state secret here. The Constitutional Protection Office has replied in official documents and letters that it is not a problem if during the elections the election process is financed from foreign resources in one way or another. It is our National Constitutional Protection Office! I would like to emphasise that the meaning of the Constitutional Protection Office is included in the name of this Office - to protect the Constitution. And to protect the Constitution means to act as it is written in the Constitution. Article 100 of the Satversme states that everyone, including the political opposition, has the right to freedom of expression. And the right to freedom of expression means that the Caps political opposition cannot be called to the Constitutional Protection Office and read morally - why the representative of the opposition in his Facebook profile has made Karina... the printing of the land-book. We must not allow the continuation of the cheque and the return of the cheque in the 21st century. And no Mikeitis, no Caps are entitled to read moral opposition about what to put or not put on their Facebook profile from public land register registers. ( Internouncing call.) It happens that it is absolutely clear that the Constitutional Protection Office does not perform its main function of protecting the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. It is obvious that the Constitutional Protection Bureau is working to protect the persons who benefit from the OIC to continue, who benefit from it, that large and high officials can probably legalise money or wash money to a large extent in Latvia and engage in similar activities. It's not protection of the Constitution, it's crime! And this crime... In the sense of the Constitutional Protection Bureau... must be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U150	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U151	Yes, honourable colleagues, the Constitutional Protection Office - it is an institution which should, in principle, protect state security, protect Latvia from the interference of foreign various agents in both legislation and the election process. That's absolutely right! Unfortunately, however, we have had to make sure in the last Saeima that it probably does not look like that. Because the request of Members for activities funded by the Open Society Foundation (Sorosa Foundation) by Latvian NGOs, which were intended (we can also read this in the respective report)... which was intended to amend the law adopted by the Republic of Latvia and the activities aimed at the elections... We discussed very much whether or not such interference in the internal affairs of Latvia is acceptable. Most Members acknowledged that everything was fine. But, I must admit, the members of the National Alliance also heard that some problems had to be addressed in this regard. I was very surprised by the fact that from the Office of Constitutional Protection, in which I addressed a specific question whether these paid activities were not interference in internal affairs of Latvia, Director P. i. On 23 October 2018, Freimanis replied: “Thank you for the detailed analysis and information provided. SAB has assessed your letter within the scope of its competence and informs you that the activities of the association and the receipt of foreign financing are not in conflict with the legislation of the Republic of Latvia.” What are we talking about? Who is it an institution? Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U152	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U153	Dear President, Honourable Members! Mr Gobzem, it may be that you have something to do with the History Janon, the KGB agents with the cover name Baiba, who was born in Kuldīga in 1940 and self-governed in 1979. If so, it may be that this is why there are problems with this tolerance. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Gobzem: “I don’t know people like this!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U154	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U155	Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission. See below. Proposal No 5...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U156	We will vote in favour of proposal 4. Please call me! We will vote in favour ( Dep. J. Rancāns: Is there a vote? ) 4. - Member Gobzem's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 18, for - 52, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U157	5. There is also a proposal from Member Alda Gobzem, the nature of which is that it would not be possible to grant national secrecy in the future if the person had dual citizenship. This proposal, too, was not supported by the Commission, and the argument is that - and this is also assessed by the security services - the countries from which these people of double nationality come. Often they can also be citizens of our partner countries, including strategic partner countries. That is why this proposal from Member Gobzem is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U158	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U159	It is very strange to note Alexander Kirštein about someone who was self-governed in 1979. I would like to draw Mr Kirstein's attention to the fact that I was born in 1979... In 1978, I was born. I don't think I could have had a relationship with someone I didn't know in 1979. (Applause) This proposal. The Constitution of the Republic of Latvia clearly and unambiguously states (this is the meaning and essence of the Constitution): a person who has only Latvian citizenship can become the President of Latvia. Thus, only a person who has the nationality of one country and successively has access to the state's secret only from Latvia can become a senior official of our country. So if we look at the point and continue to do so, we must conclude that if the President can only be a national of one country in our country, which is logical, the same order should apply to other senior state officials - the Prime Minister, the Speaker of the Saeima and so on. Why? Because the question is not about restrictions on a person; a person can choose to be either a person with double citizenship or one who wants to take senior positions in the Republic of Latvia. This is about security issues. I will give you one example. The argument that comes from the Commission is that we have citizens from countries that are in the European Union or that are our partners and so on. But we also have citizens with double citizenship, Mr Rancan, for example, with Russia. We have citizens of this kind. And how will we now share the good citizens and the bad citizens? So, a citizen who has double citizenship, for example, with Israel, maybe let us let the country's secret go, but let's not give him who has Russia. I feel that this lacks consistency and is too much subjectivity. Therefore, it is only logical (and it is also in the interest of state security) that if you want to stand for the highest positions in the Republic of Latvia, then you must give up citizenship of another country. You should only be a citizen of the Republic of Latvia. Because there is an objective possibility of a situation... Let's take an example, Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš. Artur Krišjānis Kariņš has citizenship of another country and has responsibilities towards that other country, he has promised confidence in that other country. What to do if this other country, even though it is now our ally, is asked by Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš as a citizen of that country to carry out activities that are in the interests of this other country, but not in the interests of Latvia? An objective person is automatically placed in a conflict of interest. He has been in a conflict of interests from the beginning when he holds a high position of dual citizenship. It should be noted that our history, as the Republic of Latvia, is not, by nature, related to the huge number of visitors from some colonies of us, Latvia, as it is in France, where it could be one of the arguments why there is an opportunity to acquire dual citizenship and then to get to high state positions. We have never had such an objective history scenario. Thus, if a person is willing to donate himself to the work of the state, is willing to donate himself to the state administration, wants to hold senior positions of state, then he must be a national of only one country, because the admission to the state secret can only be a person who cannot disclose the secret to another state. The tolerance may be limited to a person who is not obliged to disclose his or her secret to another State. In this case, we create a situation where we allow national secrecy to be granted to persons who are, and may be, obliged to disclose the secret of our country to a third party. This is an unacceptable situation. Indeed, it is a threat to the security of our country. That is the point of this proposal. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U160	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U161	I assume that there are situations where a person with double nationality could be granted a permit. My replica here is rather Mr. Rancan than the partner country, about some constant size... When we have a partner country, it happens that all the citizens of the partner country are obliged... automatically favour us, huh? And then there are countries where all citizens are not good for us. Interestingly, how would we classify, for example, a Belarusian citizen today? Friendly, unfriendly? We don't live in a constant world. Things are changing, and not always for good. If ever, within NATO, the United States, as its main security pillar in Europe, considered Turkey as one of its allies, the largest troops in Europe, then a good question - as it is today. Don't ask for more details... but NATO countries now plan joint exercises with the Russian Federation. The world is not constant, the world is changing. Constants are only interests of Latvia, national interests of Latvia. That's it. They are constant. More generally. A great deal was mentioned here about the Constitutional Protection Bureau and the Constitution. That is how the Constitutional Protection Bureau protects the Constitution. And the first two articles of the Satversme state that we are an independent democratic republic and that power belongs to the people of Latvia, not to the Bureau of Constitutional Protection, and not to anyone. It is not the duty of the Constitutional Protection Bureau to restrict the right of elected representatives of the people to fulfil their duties, but to defend with all effort that no one will interfere with elected representative of the people, directly elected, to exercise representation of the interests of the people. And we should not worry about allowances to Members, but at the moment when the Member... In fact, it is very rare that someone has given us a secret. Because knowing that we can be the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, believe me, no one has ever entrusted any serious secret here... after that date. But if this happens to Members, not to all, but to those who have a connection with the relevant question in a commission, this secret must be known, then the Constitutional Protection Bureau should protect those Members who are carriers of such information so that they do not get into blackmail situations. It is not a matter of fear to Members when they are not even close to receiving such information. It is the task of the Constitutional Protection Bureau to protect democracy in Latvia, to defend the interests of the people and the representatives of the people who have been delegated to express these interests. Not to limit it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U162	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U163	Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U164	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Member Gobzem's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 22, for - 46, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U165	Table 6 contains a proposal from the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption to exclude the entry into force of the provision providing for the entry into force of the law on 1 May 2019. This proposal is, of course, supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U166	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U167	I therefore call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U168	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Secret” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 51, for - 2 and for - 18. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U169	The deadline for submitting proposals is 21 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U170	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 21 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Designs”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U171	Hello, colleagues! The second reading of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science dealt with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Designs”, which is designed to provide for administrative liability in the field of design protection and to determine the competent authority in the application of penalties. Three proposals were received by the Commission. 1. is a proposal from the Legal Office with editorial content. In other words, the terms to be used are specified and aligned. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U172	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U173	2. is the proposal of the Minister of Justice Bordan. It is a clear, editorial proposal that prevents interpretation and clearly defines responsibility for unauthorised practices in design products. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U174	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U175	3. is a proposal by the Legal Office clarifying the title of the article. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U176	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U177	Please support the draft law at second reading!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U178	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Design Law” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U179	Submission deadline: 31 May 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U180	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 31 May this year. On the agenda - draft law on consumer protection law, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U181	Hello, colleagues! We are working on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection” at second reading. 10 proposals were received, while the Ministry of Economics withdrew proposals 1, 3, 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U182	The Minister for Economic Affairs has therefore referred to proposals 1, 3, 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U183	2. there is a proposal from the Member, Mr Kirštein, which has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U184	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U185	Dear President, Honourable Members! My proposal was very simple: those who receive social assistance or, to say, are studying until 20 years of age should at least three days... to consider whether they may be granted a credit. But I also withdrew my proposal because the draft law will be redesigned. I understand that it will perhaps be seen in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, and then it will appear in a new version. So I also withdrew.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U186	Thank you. The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U187	If it is withdrawn, it shall be withdrawn. So, 3 has been withdrawn, 4. - withdrawn, 5. - cancelled. 6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U188	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U189	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U190	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U191	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U192	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U193	9. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralph Nemir. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U194	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U195	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U196	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U197	I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U198	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection". Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U199	30 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U200	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 30 May this year, if? 30 May Thank you. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the law “On the declaration of cash at the state border”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U201	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Resurrection! In the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission we have examined before the second reading the draft law “Amendment to the law “On the declaration of cash at the state border””. Ten proposals have been received. Most of it comes from the Minister of Finance. The purpose of the proposals is to prevent the import and export of undeclared and criminally acquired cash from the Republic of Latvia. 1. is the Minister of Finance Reira's proposal, which sets out the objective of the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U202	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U203	2. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira, which complements the scope of the law. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U204	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U205	Dear President, Honourable Members! I would like to point out that the European Union directive only provides for declarations when a person moves across the external borders of the European Union. No directive provides for such declarations to be carried out at internal borders. There are, of course, different practices in the European Union; each country can adopt some stricter laws. But I think that if countries like Estonia, Finland, Sweden, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, the Netherlands, Slovenia, Hungary, Romania and Greece have not implemented such declarations, then we too... We haven't promised our constituents to make life difficult with all kinds of paperwork and controls, huh? In my opinion, Latvia is too small for us now to accept such a justification... that in some way we will do so, also moving between the internal borders of the European Union. Well, the following verses will already be... I can't in principle... I explained that I cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U206	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U207	In the Commission, proposal 2 is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U208	Is Mr Kirstein asking for a vote? Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Finance! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 49, for - 5, for - 22. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U209	Proposal 3 partly supported and included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U210	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U211	Both proposal 3 and proposal 4. It is said here that a natural person who enters the Republic of Latvia or withdraws cash from the Republic of Latvia in the amount of 10 thousand euros, shall fill in the cash declaration in writing - at the request of the official of the competent authority - before the cash is removed from the Republic of Latvia or after the cash is imported. In this declaration, the person should state, of course, logically, his name, the owner of the cash, the amount, type, origin, purpose of use, information about the transport route. And if this information in the cash declaration is false, then, as you see below, he can also be punished at 20 per cent of the value of that money. In my opinion, 10 thousand euros or more - it's not a big sum, because, after last year's statistics, several thousand Latvian citizens have travelled to buy cars in both the German markets and Lithuania and Klaipeda; cash is used mainly there and no problems have occurred. The purpose of the law is as if in some way to limit, say, various illegal money... the transport of illegally acquired funds. Does anyone here or in the Ministry of Finance really think that those who are involved in the pumping of illegal funds travel around EUR 10, 12 or 15 000? ( Intercretion: “But it is! ” ) Spain has in no way introduced a requirement to declare money from 100 thousand. Well, I still let that be 100,000. I think that 10 million could be introduced in Latvia. Why? Look at the sums! Just some excursion office in Riga (I don't really know what it is called) has illegally used and transferred 20 million to different countries. According to some officials of the Ministry of Finance, they also needed 10 or 20 thousand packages across the border. Well, somehow they transferred millions of them! The same is true for more than 20 million euros of money used illegally in “Riga Traffic”. We can already come back, start with Latvenergo, now judged. These amounts are, however, no less than several million. So what do we do?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Is anyone really so naive here that... Following the adoption of this law, carriers of illegal money will now travel to Lithuania or Estonia with such money packages? Moreover, this draft law does not say anything... We have thousands of roads to both Lithuania and Estonia, we do not have any customs offices and border guards - you can walk quietly through the forest with backpack, and no law forbids you at present to carry cash. In my opinion, this is pointless simply because it is bureaucratic and foolish. This shames Members of the Saeima that we need to see such silly proposals. Why? I'll tell you. Was anyone disturbed, for example, by subtracting 500,000? If you suspect, if security authorities or, let us say, the SRS's Financial Police Administration suspect a person that she's doing... receive appropriate sanctions and start monitoring. Listening to the phone... The prosecutor's office, however, supervises all this. Then there is an order to stop a person's car, shake out, there find them 500 thousand, and there's no problem. Next. We asked the Commission what examples are. We were named some of the citizens of Uzbekistan who have led several hundred thousand, but Uzbekistan already has no internal border with the European Union. What, according to the statistics, are now dealing with such money transfers, against which the relevant rules should apply? The European Union is dominated by Chinese, Nigerian, Ukrainian and Russian citizens, but it turns out that nothing can be done to them because they are not stupid: they are bringing EUR 9999. So what is the point of this bill? Because those who deal with these things professionally are already leading below 10 000 - and doing so on a regular basis - across the borders of the European Union. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “Read the proposal!” ) Ved to Switzerland, yes. Why have I come - and I will no longer come - to speak in fact against all these proposals? One reason. All this could be accepted, but then we have to make a distinction as to whether we are with the countries that I call, which do not treat their citizens with such lies. If we want to be serious, then that sum should, in my opinion, be as in Spain - at least 100,000. If we want to be, let us say, those who respond to their constituents, then as in Germany, there can be a customs official, but only orally.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U212	Mr Kirštein, the debate is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U213	Yeah, last sentence...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U214	Are Members opposed to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U215	Let me just make one more sentence. If Raimonds Paul had kept his 750 thousand in the car's luggage, not in the bank, he wouldn't have lost that money. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U216	Mr Kirštein, are you asking for a vote on 3 and 4 or on 4, which will be supported? Which one? About four? Mr Kirštein, are you asking for a vote on proposal 4? Also on 3, which is partly supported? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Kirstein: “Oh, no! Only for 4.’ ) About 3. - No, no. So on proposal 4. Consequently, the Member does not ask for a vote and Members share the Commission's view on proposal 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U217	4. is a proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which supplements Article 5 of the Law on the “Cash Declaration” by determining what is cash within the meaning of the law. There is an obligation on the natural person to declare cash and the content of the declaration is also laid down. The Commission supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U218	The Member asked for a vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - The proposal submitted by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 50, against - 3, refrains - 16. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U219	5. - the proposal of Minister of Finance Reira, which supplements the article, stating that the State Revenue Service shall provide the information contained in the cash statement to the entity and institution of operational activities or person authorised to investigate upon a separate request. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U220	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U221	6. - a proposal from the Legal Office specifying the title of the article. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U222	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U223	7. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U224	Members are in favour. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) However, Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - the proposal submitted by Finance Minister Reira! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 50, against - 3, refrains - 2. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U225	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U226	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U227	9. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported. These are transitional provisions, which provide when Article 5 enters into force and when the Cabinet of Ministers has to issue regulations.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U228	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U229	And 10. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U230	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U231	I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U232	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the law on the declaration of cash at the state border” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 53, for - 3, for - 18. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U233	The deadline for submitting proposals is 21 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U234	21, huh?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U235	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U236	The deadline for submitting proposals is 21 May this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U237	Dear colleagues, The Saeima Bureau has received a proposal from Members Latkovska, Pavļuta, Zakatistova, Strikke and others to continue the sitting of the Saeima today, on 16 May, without interruption, until the examination of all issues. Do Members have objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) ; “No!” ) Members have reservations. So we have to vote. ( Insights: “There is no objection! ” ) Please turn on the microphone for Dana Reizniece-Ozola!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U238	Colleagues! The Group of Members has planned a meeting with the Ambassador at 12.30 a.m. for cooperation with the Japanese Parliament. So we need a break. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U239	Are you asking for a vote? Do not ask for a vote. So Members agree. Let's keep sitting. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Integration Fund, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs - Member Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U240	Hello, colleagues! In its meeting of 7 May, the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Integration Fund” before the second reading. In the Commission, we were able to find a compromise on a number of key issues relating to improving the functioning of the Society Integration Fund. Thank you for your colleagues at the Ministry of Culture as well as the Legal Bureau for their work on the bill. A total of 19 proposals were received. 1. is the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Daces Melbārdes, and 2. is the proposal of the Legal Bureau - they are identical.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U241	Excuse me... For every proposal, tell me who is supported, who is - no!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U242	They are identical.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U243	Yeah. But the proposal 1... Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U244	Yeah. 1. - Dace Melbard's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U245	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U246	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U247	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U248	3. - a proposal by the Minister of Culture, Daces Melbards, which provides for a technical change. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U249	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U250	4. There is also a clarification from the Minister of Culture. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U251	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U252	5. - a proposal from the Members Ruksan-Schipčinsk, Voika, Bluke and Stein. Partly supported and included 8. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U253	Let us start a debate. Member Maris Kučinskis has applied for a debate. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U254	Dear President, Dear Members, This and future proposals... Without questioning the need to change this law... It also came from the previous government... And, in my view, there are a lot of improvements that go with the time... I would, however, like to draw attention to what has been distinguished by the Commission, only in part by supporting your proposal and coming to what has been written below. Yeah... I would understand that starting from the nineties... I had the opportunity to work as a representative of Vidzeme Planning Region in the Society Integration Fund... Realizing that times are changing and perhaps need clarification... your working group concluded - well, there will be Latvian Municipal Union... But the Commission's further vote and brutal attitude, spreading out the Latvian Municipal Union and telling me how I heard that it is the same non-governmental organisation, which will be able to submit and apply for one of the three places of non-governmental organisations in the Memoranda Council according to the competition procedure... Well, four... It is, to a certain extent, a signal that makes a little careful. I have followed this very closely, and I am not for a moment protecting the municipality, especially the municipality of the capital, which, of course, has become such a very unexpected... a great, negative precedent. But to say that the municipalities must be wiped out of the ground, isolated from all decisions... I'm very surprised. Instead, Mr. Kaimiņa came with a very unique proposal and put it into this foundation... who, as I said, is not as relevant as in the 1990s... Let the Prime Minister sit there. I accidentally supported the idea that there would be a text... I understand... Prime Minister's representative, one of the offices to know what's going on there. But now there's... in the proposal... Mr. Kariņš himself will be sitting. The Prime Minister already has 24 councils, now another council is here... Well, I call you, I call you... I got it in the commission... I've already heard... I was against the exclusion of the Latvian Municipal Union... the isolation of municipalities, and as I was shown where I should be, and told who made the decisions, but... Yes, you make decisions. I understand that at one point someone is in the opposition, at one time in the position, but I call on you to think with your head and at least try to fix something for the third reading. And for God's sake, well... I think it is a springboard for all Latvian municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U255	Thank you. The next name is Janina Yalinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U256	Hello, dear colleagues! With regard to these amendments, I would like to remind you a little bit... Dear Members, who have come from both the regions and have been members of the Council, let us remember that this law... representatives of planning regions coming from regions... they were not just there! As the municipality is elected democratically and the Members nominate their representative to the planning region in their first sittings, the planning region then nominates its representative to the Society Integration Fund. A very democratic process. If you, the honourable coalition, do not like the leaders of local governments, then the managers of the administration can also be nominated from the planning regions. I myself was a member of the Council of the Society Integration Fund. There were arguments here that you can't call, there's no quorum. Representatives of planning regions were the most disciplined, they went to these council meetings, but I cannot say that about ministers. Today are ministers on the public side... So there are ministers... but the municipalities are missing. I would like to thank those Members who brought the proposals... and another Latvian Municipal Union... It's been left there... And now let's go and watch. Planning regions are not there. I have a question: on what criteria will four non-governmental organisations then be nominated? And with regard to the regions, I am very convinced that the regions of this non-governmental organisation... I want to believe it won't. It's just going to be Riga again. And the projects supported... and examined... Why planning regions? Because we're like planning regions... How the hawks looked... We saw from the planning region what projects are being supported. Because all projects in the Society Integration Fund are stormed and viewed by commissions. And the members of the Council again... We looked at what projects are from the regions. Who will now look at and defend the regions? That is a very good question. I therefore call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U257	Thank you. We are continuing the debate. Mr Artus Kaimiņš, the next Member in the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U258	Dear colleagues, I had the privilege of chairing that sitting... Mary Kučinski! In my opinion, we have participated in two different sittings. And you, Mrs Yalinsk, are speaking like that... 'Cause it's dropped from the shelf. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “What are these words?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ See (Interior call.) , we had several meetings in two months, there was a working group ( Dep. R. Lochmele-Lunova’s intermediate call. ... on the draft SIF law. ( GREEN'S MEMBERS' INTERPRETATIONS) And the situation is that this Latvian Municipal Union, which you mentioned, for the first time coming to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, forgot to submit its proposals (Intergovernmental call.) Second time, after two months, they did not come and did not send anything. Thus, honourable Members... Mr Kučinski, you are talking here about the fact that the Prime Minister has so much work... But it's already written this... Proposal No 5 is included 8. - the Commission's proposal. Please support all the Commission’s proposals, since proposal 8 states: “( 1) The Fund’s Board consists of: (1) Prime Minister, Minister for Culture, Minister for Education and Science, Minister for Welfare, Minister for the Environment and Regional Development, Minister for Justice; (2) four representatives of non-governmental organisations.” As for municipalities, I am convinced that the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development or his representative or the Prime Minister, or his representative, can defend the opinions of municipalities, as well as non-governmental organizations, can do exactly the same. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Riena: “It’s the only thing that the Minister needs to do: sit in some commissions!” ) But if everything is so bad, why didn’t you come to the sitting? There was no time? ( Internouncing call.) What was that? Everything's bad now! What didn't you come faster? What did you not urge your municipal unions to write anything, just one proposal, something about things? Now we're hauling this rhetoric here, that everything's bad. I'm sorry, colleagues. Please support all Commission proposals and draft legislation as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U259	Thank you. In the next debate, Mr Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U260	Colleagues! Both on this proposal and on the proposal 8 mentioned by the previous speaker. I think, Mr. Neighbours, well, nobody's falling from the shelf... And that's about the proposals... you, however, rather fundamentally change this composition. I'm not satisfied that the new composition... Society Integration Fund - in the very title... has become very centralised. Very centralized. In the past, however, there were representatives of planning regions, representatives of the Latvian Municipal Union, and... I am not saying that everything is fine with the SIF, but point out that representatives of regional local authorities also have some place there - that is right! I hope that the commission responsible will come down from its heights, especially its President, and address this issue in substance, because what is happening in the regions... represented by elected Members who come directly from the regions... they know best what is happening in these places and know best how to solve problems. Of course, you can start competitions, and most likely they will also start. It would be difficult to imagine a competition in the Society Integration Fund, where one of these four places might not be the Latvian Municipal Union, but there is such a possibility. If this centralisation of power is taking place, then then there is also centralisation of resources, and I think that is totally unacceptable. This issue should be reviewed and, as it is being presented, I have that desire... Get everybody... Either, I accept, you can already do this, you can take responsibility, but you will have to answer for it yourself. Thank you. However, I call for these proposals not to be supported. If they are supported, take account of the fact that we will table corrective proposals for the third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U261	Thank you. Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U262	Dear colleagues, Listening to the work of the Council seems to have been very ideal. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “No one said that!” ) Well about. The composition has been optimal, everything has been very good. But let's look at the statistics! Council Regulation (EC) No Only two real SIF Board meetings have taken place. The rule requires... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova’s intermediate call. The rules shall require at least four. Only two have happened. Thirteen times decisions were made electronically by means of long protocols in a slow mechanism. On 1 February 2018, the Council could not meet at all, as there was no quorum. As stated by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Latgale Planning Region has not visited these SIF Council meetings either. It's not that the regions have been the same toughest. At the moment, proposal 12 - the proposal of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs - allows the Foundation Council to reduce the number of members and to operate effectively. The Prime Minister is replaced by his authorised representative - this is also provided for in proposal 12 here. The Prime Minister shall choose such representative. He can, of course, come himself too. It's the Prime Minister's own will. VARAM also represents all municipalities. Finally, the Latvian Municipal Union is also a society (Noise in the hall.) , a legal association, as it has been registered. And those times are over - in the previous Saeima, the Latvian Municipal Union played the role of political party and could block any law. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U263	Thank you. The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U264	Dear colleagues, I call for attention not to be lost when discussing these amendments to the law. We are talking about improving the governance of the Society Integration Fund, not about excluding municipalities, regions from participation in the Society Integration Fund project... Participation. The aim of the amendments is to reach a operational Council, which oversees the decisions taken by the SIF. It shall approve the SIF’s executive body, the decisions taken. And that's why we have to put an end to this idea of the dolls that's on the board... that someone, representing his industry, can envelop something there. SIF needs a programme in line with integration and other national guidelines... NGOs can apply for... And the Council must be operational, be able to monitor it. In addition, today, by reducing the number of Council members and making it operational... Now that the government has decided to allocate additional money to the NGO sector, we understand that there will be a need for more reform as to how we share the money in the country and how it is available to the non-governmental sector. As we change the composition of the Council with our amendments, we have improved public... the involvement of the NGO sector. There will be five national representatives and four of the NGOs. They can be any, including the Latvian Municipal Union. The Latvian Municipal Union can participate, as are all others, in influencing SIF activities and programmes, as well as in commenting on and influencing Council decisions. This is a question of making sure that NGO money is available quickly and that SIF is operational. I therefore call for support for the proposals made by the Commission. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U265	Thank you. Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U266	In my opinion, the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development has never represented... I have not heard that he represents the opinion of the municipalities. He's monitoring the municipalities, but... Well, that was news to me. But what you are doing right now, fellow Members, is that I think... Once again, this balance is being broken. Perhaps you could simply replace this proposal, remove it... those “pluvars” that are there - that there's some minister, Prime Minister, something else... Simply make sure that the coalition council will be the one that will control the SIF's future activities. ( Intercretion: “Rightly! ” ) Very simple! Very concrete! Those in a coalition, they're also... Because here's five to four... government ministers against four NGO representatives... That is exactly what the coalition council means... No, it's beautiful! But I think that's not right. However, there must be a balance of power. And it was necessary, however, to place more emphasis on this, including a specific regional representation.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U267	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U268	A moment ago, Mr. Janson, a member of the troop. Mr. Janson, I am talking about you. You said that the representative of the Latvian Municipal Union does not need to be present in the foundation council. But I opened an annotation of the law and read it... Proposal 7, proposers Ritvars Jansons and Jānis Iesalnieks. In this proposal, Mr Janson says that the representative of the Latvian Municipal Union should be there. So Mr Janson put forward a proposal that a representative of the Latvian Municipal Union should be, but from the platform said exactly the opposite of what he himself had written in his proposal. It's pretty funny. The other thing I really don't understand. Is that really logical... democratic principles? So there's three or four... Well, not an important number... representatives of non-governmental organisations, which will obviously be chosen by the Head of the Memoranda Council... or a representative of Zaiga Pūce, wife of Minister Jura Pūce. Do I understand right? And it actually happens that... with all due respect for the non-governmental sector... the elected officials will be at a lower level than non-elected persons, who will decide who will be representatives of non-governmental organisations. Will they come from, for example, the Ascendum Society, a transit association or any other association? ( The utterance: “Mozaika! ”) ) Who will be the three or four representatives of non-governmental organisations? And why do the representatives of non-governmental organizations have a greater say about elected officials, who are also Latvian Municipal Union? I feel that this is not really right from the point of view of democracy. People are also elected in local elections, and their views are of greater importance. That is why I believe - with all due respect for the non-governmental sector - that there is one danger here: who will then be the evaluators and will determine which four representatives from all the huge non-governmental sector will be those who will be there? And why is the non-governmental sector placed at a higher level than the elected representatives of the municipality? And finally, the last one. Mr Janson, however, I call on you to say to the public, when you climb next time, honestly, that you have tabled a proposal on which you are then speaking from the platform quite the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U269	Thank you. The name to Member Artus Neimins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U270	So it's about the procedure. Only Mr Janson was present at the Commission's meeting, and the Legal Bureau simply prevented us from... Mr Janson would have referred to his proposal, but he could not do it because Mr Iesalnieks was not present - they are two applicants. Such proposals will be repeated in this draft law. It is therefore included in proposal No 8, which is a Commission proposal. This or so - please support all the Commission's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U271	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov. ( Interface: “There is no interest in Russia! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U272	Dear President, Colleagues! The Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity, where I have the honour to work, carries out a regular analysis of the Fund's activities. We are not a legislative commission, but we are aware of the functioning of the SIF. In February of this year, we listened carefully to what the fund's secretariat management said and learned that EUR 700 000 per year is allocated only to administrative expenditure. Yesterday I had a conversation with the Russian cultural day organizer Vladas Bogovs in Latvia. I ask him: how much money have you received in your integration activities from the country? We haven't got a penny, he answered. Although the applications were submitted to the SIF, they were all rejected for formal reasons. For example, the association “European Latvian Association” received 16 999,33 euros; the association “Centre for Public Policy PROVIDUS” - 16 999,76 euros; the association “ Society for Publicity – Delna” received from SIF 16 999,45 euros. Isn't it strange that the amounts are so similar? Mr Gobzem said today about what non-governmental organisations... Vott, we have chosen non-governmental organisations that are superior to others! And they get it, others don't. For example, the "Paparde Flower" society received €11 248.24 with motivation: interests in sexual and reproductive health and rights of citizens in 2019. It sounded really great, but where is the integration of society... in our multinational society? Where are the members of minority civil institutions under the leadership of the Foundation? The countries of the European Union, which Latvia always wants to take as a model, cannot imagine an organisation without African Americans or the American inborn, as the Indians call today. In my opinion, the Ministry of Culture wants to focus even more on administrative obligations in order to control financial resources and flows and to avoid undesirable organisations, even though no stranger has access to the fund. For example, no Russian-language media in Latvia last year received funding for work against so-called false news. Yes, why is there a real reason to worry if you can simply turn off Russian television? This year, the Foundation announced a programme financed by the Latvian state budget entitled “The Minorities and Latvian Youth Cooperation Programme”. Very good! Total funding of the programme for projects - 31 303 EUR. Solids! But in the section “Status” yesterday I saw – “Tender closed”. Read more “Projects” - “No projects found for this program”. The integration fund received taxpayers' money. But the Ministry of Culture, which is maintained... The national association does not want to allocate these funds proportionately and fairly, taking into account the interests of the national communities of Latvia. It is therefore very important that elected representatives of the municipality be present there. Otherwise, it is time to rename the integration fund as an assimilation fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U273	Thank you. We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U274	Dear colleagues, I am referring in particular to our colleagues from the Group. I call on you not to engage in the dissemination of truly manipulative information. The Society Integration Fund organises project competitions for non-governmental organisations with at least criteria – unlike what happens in the Riga City Council, which also manages taxpayers' money. Do you want to see such a municipal action in SIF... Do you want to see it in SIF? There really is an additional allocation, especially for certain cultural societies, for one particular minority organisations that... called “the roof organisation”, which unites other organisations that... When you look at the Lursoft database, it turns out that for years you may not exist at all. There really is no competition, and the events that these organisations are responsible for are simply coping? paste copied from the reports of previous years... and there is no certainty as to whether there is indeed a cover or whether there are really participants participating. While I was a Member at the Riga City Council, I studied this issue in more detail. I really call on Members to protect the Foundation for the Integration of Society from the culture of such work. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U275	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U276	Dear colleagues, I really want to remind colleagues from the New Conservative Group that you are no longer members of the Riga City Council opposition. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “So no matter what happens there?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ I understand your obsession, but we are talking about something completely different. You know, there is such a universal objection: “The fool himself!” When we point to the imperfections and folly of the government, you say: “But to you, in the City Council of Riga... !” Why did you even start in the Saeima elections? I can't understand your obsession. ( Interface: “Riga is still in Latvia! ” ) You will continue to fight now. ( Internouncing call.) I believe that the Speaker of the Saeima should stop such things at all. I do not understand why this is not done. Now it's an obsession! And by nature. Mrs Ozola, you can say what you want about the fact that the Society Integration Fund is perfect and so on, but we are seeing results. Who receives money from the Society Integration Fund? What are the objectives? I am witnessing how the Society Integration Fund was built, what its initial tasks were. Unfortunately, the Society Integration Fund has long had nothing to do with integration. That is bitter truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U277	Thank you. We are continuing the debate. I remind you that we are debating proposal 5 tabled by Members Rukšane-Šchipčinska, Voika, Stein and Bluke. Please debate the proposal. Mr. Gobzem's name for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U278	I think the whole problem is that there are no real criteria for sharing their money. There are some, let us say, non-governmental organisations closer to power, such as Delna or PROVIDUS, which are in a more special position than other non-governmental organisations, large families associations and so on. It seems to me that the right order would not be like that, but that everyone would... from our share of taxes... it would be possible to choose whom we would like to channel this planned funding. The funding would be left in its own right, but what would we like to direct? Because it is absolutely clear that there will be Members in this Chamber who will want to channel funding, such as sexual minorities, and there will be Members who will want to channel to large families. It is very likely that there will be situations where there will be disagreements, but, by virtue of the amount of tax paid, we will be able to get every Member to participate in the process - how to allocate funding. Otherwise, we are left with some four mystical representatives of non-governmental organisations who will, in principle, give someone not to give. I will, of course, give to those who will be closer to power, whether that power is what we are today or what will be another time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U279	Name to Member Juris Rancan. ( Internouncing call.) Member Rancan... The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U280	Listening to what has been done and predicting how you can go, I have the feeling that I have to submit a proposal to close that fund and re-allocate it in another way to the third reading. What do you think? I think that we will propose this at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U281	I closed the debate. Mrs Ruksane-Šchipčinskas, do you want to add something on behalf of the Commission to proposal No 5?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U282	No, I don't want to add anything. The proposal was partly supported and included 8. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U283	Do Members agree or ask for a vote? ( The box “Yes! ”) , “No!” ) Members ask for a vote on proposal 5. Please call me! ( The box “Let’s Support! ”) ) To vote for the Member Rukšāne-Ščipčinskas, Voika (Interface: 'No'!) ), the 5th proposal by Stein and Bluke! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “You can’t, Inese, be! This has already been partly supported! Now you can't vote for it!' Noise in the hall.) Colleagues! In the Commission, the proposal is partly supported (Dep. A. Neighbours: “And included! Please reject!’ ), but Members of the Saeima can express... carry out its own vote. Please call me! Please vote mode! Let us vote on Amendment 5! Please get the result! About - 25, against - 32, refrains - 8. The proposal is not supported. Mrs. Ruksan-Schipčinskas!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U284	Proposal No 6 is a proposal from Member Judina. It was partly supported and included in 8. - the Commission's proposal. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U285	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Andrey Judeen's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 25, against - 32, refrains - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U286	Proposal No 7 is a proposal by Mr Janson. It was partly supported and included in 8. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U287	Proposal by Members Janson and Izalnieks Let us start a debate. Please, name to Member Artus Kaiminas.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U288	Colleagues! I... Let's... clarity. All the Members' proposals made in this draft law are rejected and supported in the Commission's proposal. If it is said here that a Member has tabled a proposal and that it has been partly supported, please reject it. And the Commission's proposals - support. So, please also reject this if you request a vote. ( Insight: “This is what you have to tell in the commission! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U289	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, do you want to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U290	No, no. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U291	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! Let us vote on the 7th motion tabled by Members Janson and Izalnieks! Please vote mode Please score! For - 26, for - 32, for - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U292	Proposal No 8 is a Commission proposal which includes both previous Members' proposals and the conclusions of the working group. Proposal to disapprove the composition of the Board In particular, the Board of the Foundation consists of the Prime Minister, the Minister for Culture, the Minister for Education and Science, the Minister for Welfare, the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, the Minister for Justice and four representatives of non-governmental organisations. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U293	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U294	Dear Members, It is clear from the point of view that the chairman of the commission, Mr Kaimina, has to go to the quarry and explain how it is necessary to vote, how it should not be voted, where it is included, where it is not included, that the commission in question has a total barrack, chaos. ( Interface: ‘ That’s it! ’) ) This probably describes... (Applause) This is probably due to who runs this commission. I call for the commission president to be replaced by a person who does not make such a bardac, so that we, all Members (Interpretative statement: 'Proposals!') )... so that the commission president should not climb the platform and explain what (Interface: ‘Proposals!’) ) in which the proposal... In order for a coalition representative, the chairman of the commission, should not explain to his coalition how to vote on the proposals. It seems to me to be complete, completely absurd. Such chaos in the Saeima, in Parliament, would not be acceptable. I call on the coalition to replace the chairman of the commission so that there is no chaos. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U295	Dear colleagues, I call for a debate on the proposal. Name to Member Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U296	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Colleagues! I want to say one thing. Two things in fact. Haos is caused by a lie. And one of the lies is those of Aldis Gobzem. His Zaiga Poece doesn't lead the Memoranda Council. This institution consists of 13 people, and in this way, including four representatives of the non-governmental sector in the commission, we can strengthen this sector. And I believe in the Latvian non-governmental sector, but... Unfortunately, especially in recent days, we see that a huge risk of reputation lies with the non-governmental sector of Riga City Council, which spends huge amounts of money in vain through foundations. We cannot, on all this background, undermine the reputation of the non-governmental sector. I call for this Commission proposal to be supported, as it is to be welcomed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U297	I closed the debate. Do you want to add something else on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U298	I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U299	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - the proposal of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs! ( Insight: ‘ How should I vote? ’) ) Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 37, for - 5, for - 20. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U300	9. is a proposal from the Commission governing the mandate of the Chairman of the Board. In particular, the members of the Board of the Foundation shall elect the chairman of the Board of the Foundation from among their members for a period of five years. The Chairman of the Board of the Foundation shall direct the work of the Board of the Foundation. The same person may not be Chairman of the Board for more than five consecutive years. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U301	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U302	10. is the proposal from the Members Rukšane-Schipčinska, Voika, Bluke and Stein. It has been partly supported and included 11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U303	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U304	11. is a proposal of the Commission, which provides for representatives of non-governmental organisations included in the Board of the Foundation for the performance of their duties to receive remuneration. The amount of the remuneration shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U305	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U306	12. is a commission proposal aimed at ensuring the quorum and provides for the possibility for ministers to be directed in their place by persons authorised to sit on the council. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U307	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U308	13. is the proposal of the Members Rukšane-Schipčinska, Voika, Bluke and Stein, which has been partly supported and included in 14. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U309	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U310	14. There is a proposal from the Commission. This is aimed at transparency of the work of the Board and provides that the minutes of the meetings of the Board of the Foundation are available on the Foundation's website within 10 days of the meeting. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U311	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U312	15. is the proposal of Minister of Culture Daces Melbards. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U313	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U314	16. is a proposal by the Legal Bureau of a technical nature. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U315	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U316	17. is a fine-tuning proposal by the Legal Bureau, which precludes the delegation of representatives promoted by the Prime Minister and other ministers. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U317	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U318	18. is a proposal from the Minister of Culture. It is envisaged to replace in paragraph 8 of the transitional provision the words ‘the appointment of a new director of the secretariat’ with the words ‘the appointment of the candidate selected by an open tender within the time limit set in the third paragraph of Article 11 of this Law as director of the secretariat’. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U319	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U320	19. is a proposal from the Legal Bureau that is identical to the previous proposal 18 and is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U321	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U322	Please support the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Integration Fund at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U323	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Integration Fund". Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 54, for - 4 and for - 7. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U324	May 21st of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U325	There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 21 May this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Mr Daniel Pavluts.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U326	Hello, honourable Member of the Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! Colleagues, last item on the agenda. At second reading we see the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance”. Fifty-one proposals. This draft law, which we have already adopted at first reading, was submitted by five members of the National Union with a view to extending the scope of information, increasing transparency in the work of public capital companies. Thank you to Members for this. In the second reading, we are a group of five Members, which I will also mention in the future. These are Members from five coalition parties - Indriksone, Pavlut, Kursīte, Eglitis and Lejiņš - who have tabled a number of proposals, all of which are also supported by the Commission. They are intended to fundamentally review the way in which state-owned companies are managed and to make this regime equivalent to large municipal enterprises. So it's 1. - the proposal from Members Indricson, Pavļuta, Kursīte, Eglīšs and Leiens. Partly supported by the Commission, included in proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U327	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U328	The essence of the proposal is to provide that capital companies or subsidiaries belonging to public capital companies are subject to the same rules as state-owned companies for the appointment of board and board members. To date, unfortunately, the practice... This practice has not been applied uniformly. 2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. That's exactly about this. Supported by the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U329	Members ask for a vote. Please call me!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U330	Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U331	We will vote in favour of 2. - the committee's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one to - 67, against and refrain from - 67. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U332	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission. This is about the criteria, the conditions that apply again to subsidiaries, comparing them with those that apply to state-owned companies themselves.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U333	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U334	4. - a proposal from a group of Members. Supported by the Commission. Its purpose is to make it clear that the rules of the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the procedure for the appointment and withdrawal of the members of the board and council are also applicable and applicable to the dependent capital companies. There have been legal disputes about this so far. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U335	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U336	5. - a proposal from a group of Members. The purpose of this is to separate the decision of the representative of the holder of the capital from the political power in the municipalities, similar to that in the case of state-owned companies. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U337	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U338	6. - a proposal from a group of Members. Further to this same subject, it distinguishes the decision-making from the political power of the representative of the holder of the shares and provides that the Executive Director may delegate this task to another official, in the same way as the Secretary of State may delegate it to another official of the Ministry. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U339	Members support proposal 6.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U340	Now. Very long proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U341	See page 11.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U342	7. - Legal Bureau proposal, technical, editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U343	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U344	Proposal No 8 complements the list of functions attributed to the coordinating body. This role is currently being implemented by the Reconnaissance Coordination Centre. It should be noted here, however, that the original argument does not mention this, but, in addition to this, it follows that the Coordination Centre for Transparency may need additional resources in the future. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U345	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U346	9. - a proposal from a group of Members which provides that the functions of the holder of shares may be centralised within the coordinating body. This is one possible solution. The list of functions of the coordinating body has been updated accordingly. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U347	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U348	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal by a group of Members, which requires both state-owned companies and those where the State has a decisive influence and where the Council has been set up, to obtain the opinion of the coordinating body and the Ministry Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U349	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U350	11. - a proposal from a group of Members, which states that both in state capital companies and in national capital companies with decisive influence, where it exists, the board shall also receive the opinion of the coordinating body and the Ministry of Industry on the draft strategy. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U351	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U352	Proposal No 12. This is the motion of a group of Members on the same subject again, which states that in the case of capital companies where there is a board, the coordinating body and the Ministry of Industry receive an opinion on the draft strategy. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U353	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U354	13. - a proposal from a group of Members which states that the coordinating body shall in practice ensure that the requirements for the publication of information are complied with in respect of public undertakings. Here again, the PCC might need additional resources. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U355	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U356	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of a group of Members, which shall determine the amount of information to be extended by law to the prior listing of the Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U357	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U358	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of a group of Members, which provides that the selection of members of the Board in public limited-liability companies shall in future be carried out with the participation and involvement of the coordinating body... in cooperation with the holder of the capital shares. This could also require some additional resources for the PCC. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U359	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U360	16. - a proposal from a group of Members. Partly supported, included in proposal 17.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U361	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U362	17. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is envisaged that only candidates who have applied during a public application procedure will be assessed in the subsequent nomination process when selecting the members of the board and board. So open, public processes. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U363	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U364	18. - a proposal from a group of Members. We have tried to avoid an interpretation of what people may or may not apply for and tender for the office of members of the Board and Board, and it is clarified that a person cannot be elected to the Board or Board even after the status of insolvent debtor has ceased.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U365	Let us start a debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U366	18. The Commission's proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U367	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U368	I call for this Commission's proposal not to be supported, because it is clearly discriminatory. The insolvency process is a voluntary process for a natural person, and the point of this process is exactly the opposite: not to exclude a person from any further action, but to return him as soon as possible in this everyday life. Another additional thing I want to say in relation to this same proposal. I will give an example to the President of the United States, who, as far as we know, has been insolvent several times in his life. It is evidence that insolvency proceedings initiated by a person at the time when it happened... I do not know, these reasons can be different, perhaps a major life disaster has led to insolvency. It is an opportunity to legitimately get rid of accumulated debt to continue their lives. The essence of insolvency proceedings is to enable a natural person (we are talking here about insolvency proceedings of a natural person if it is a member of a board or board) to return to normal economic activity. Insolvent people should not be treated as a discriminatory sign that they are actually excluded from any further action for life. Whatever - state office, stand as a candidate in elections and so on. In that case, we should prohibit insolvency proceedings, because there cannot be any proceedings which discriminate against them. Even criminals who have committed a crime can be repaired to us. Then there is a limitation period. There are various other reasons... When a person has suffered punishment and can participate socially in the future, he no longer count, say, a person non grata. I therefore call on Members not to support a proposal that is openly discriminatory against healthy groups of persons, especially in Latvia, because we know that people in Latvia are not behind good life, but because of poverty... because the country has not made the people of Latvia rich... a very, very large proportion of society is in insolvency proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U369	I closed the debate. Mr Pavilut, on behalf of the Commission, do you want to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U370	Colleagues! I shall just clarify that the purpose of the Commission in this matter was to clarify the existing provision of the law. As a lawyer, Mr. Gobzem... Thus, the difference - this is the existing norm in the current wording of the law. We are merely clarifying this so that the application is uniform in order to avoid interpretation with regard to this point. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U371	Mr Gobzem, the debate is already closed. Mr Pavļuta specified on behalf of the Commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. - the motion from Members Indricson, Pavlut, Course, Eglīš and Leiens! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U372	19. - the motion of a group of Members to put an end to the situation... provides for a so-called cooling-off period of 12 months after active political office, which is either an elected post or a board post... leading position in a political organisation. This proposal provides for a cooling-off period so that active politicians do not arrive immediately, say, on company boards and boards, as was the case with Mr Kalvitis' entry to the Lattelecom board almost immediately after his office as Prime Minister, if my memory does not hesitate. And so on. Discussions were held that this deadline should be discussed at third reading or otherwise clarified, but the Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U373	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U374	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from a group of Members. It is a far-reaching proposal that sets out the criteria for the independence of the members of the board, as well as the fact that independent, therefore independent, from the shareholder, such as independent from the Ministry of Industry, members of the board should be at least half of the board in order to ensure its impartiality. The criteria are set out here and describe what an independent board member means. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U375	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U376	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the motion of a group of Members, which provides that... avoid situations where members of the temporary management board are appointed and then no calls for tenders are made. A member of the temporary board, such as a ministerial official or an existing capital company official, shall be removed from the board, and no tenders shall be organised for a long period, thus avoiding transparent, open procedures. In order to remedy such situations, a deadline of 12 months is set. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U377	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U378	22. - a proposal of a group of Members, which further specifies the scope of the Cabinet of Ministers' regulations on the nomination process of board and council members. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U379	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U380	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the motion of a group of Members, which states that he has been disposed of in public... derived... I apologise, a derived public person, or municipality, necessarily receives the opinion of the coordinating body before it decides to acquire participation or decisive influence in a capital company in order to reduce the possibility that it might engage unduly in commercial activities. This refers to Article 88 of the Law on Public Administration. I would add, however, that it does not in any way bind local authorities, since the opinion is of a recommended nature. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U381	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U382	24. - a proposal from a group of Members which, like the previous one, makes it compulsory for a derived public person to obtain the opinion of the coordinating body prior to the decision to acquire participation or decisive influence in a capital company (for the same reasons again). The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U383	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U384	25. - a proposal from a group of Members which lays down the obligation. Thus, the words “may set” are replaced by “sets”: not “may” but “sets” a clear order of decision-making on the medium-term operational strategy, so that there is no difference in approach, for example in the valuation of performance for different capital companies. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U385	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U386	26. - a proposal by a group of Members which lays down the same obligations for derived public persons as the coordinating body as regards the collection and publication of consolidated information on the capital companies which are owned by the municipality. The State shall publish a consolidated report on all capital companies and a similar obligation to the municipalities with such capital companies. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U387	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U388	27. - a proposal from a group of Members. Partially supported, included 28. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U389	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U390	28. - a proposal from the commission which lays down for derived public persons the same regulation for the selection of members of the board and council as in the case of state-owned companies (with the exception of the involvement of the coordinating body in the nomination process). Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U391	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U392	Wait a second. I'll see you right now.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U393	Page 51. ( Subtotal: ‘ Supported! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U394	Is it all in favour? ( The box “Yes! ”) “Yes, yes!” ) I am trying to take into account the request made by the Legal Bureau, however, for the sake of the verbatim report, to reflect the will of the legislator so that you know what we are actually voting on. 29. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U395	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U396	30. - a proposal by a group of Members setting a minimum period for publication of relevant information on a capital company. This proposal, as well as a number of other proposals, provides for the publication of this information, not for one but five previous years, in order to increase transparency and to align these requirements with listed companies. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U397	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U398	31. - a proposal from a group of Members, which is for the same purpose and of another type of information. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U399	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U400	Proposal 32 also contains this requirement for information to be treated as listed companies. Provision shall be made for a publication obligation for a period of five years. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U401	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U402	33. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U403	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U404	34. - a proposal from a group of Members. Just as before, this is also about publishing information about the last five years. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U405	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U406	35. - the same proposal in substance. Applicable to other reporting obligations. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U407	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U408	36. - a proposal from a group of Members. Applies to the same. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U409	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U410	Now change. 37. - a proposal from a group of Members. The obligation to make public which members of the board in the capital company concerned fulfil the status and criteria of an independent board member shall be laid down. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U411	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U412	38. - a proposal from a group of Members. The aim is to create greater transparency regarding the meetings of the participants by publishing the agenda and the decisions taken by the members (shareholders) in an accessible way. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U413	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U414	39. - a proposal from a group of Members. Partly supported and included 40. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U415	Members agree with the Commission's decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U416	40. - a Commission proposal requiring large capital companies to disclose a wider amount of information which is substantially equivalent to that of listed companies. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U417	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U418	41. - a technical proposal from a group of Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U419	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U420	This is also supported by the Commission. I'm sorry. 42. - a proposal from a group of Members. Partly supported, included 43. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U421	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U422	43. - a proposal from the committee responsible to impose on large capital companies an obligation to publish relevant information more frequently than has been the case so far in order to assess the contribution of these capital companies to society as well as the success of their activities. So - in the interim management report, not just once a year - in the annual report. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U423	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U424	44. - a proposal from a group of Members. The intention is to make it clear that the meeting of the participants... or that the holder of the capital shares is responsible for all the tasks of the board if the board is not established in the company. In order to avoid any doubt that if the company does not have a board of directors, all of this function is carried out by the holding of capital shares, whether it is the Executive Director of the Council or the Secretary of State of the Ministry concerned. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U425	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U426	45. - a proposal from a group of Members. It is envisaged that the setting-up of a board in large capital companies is mandatory in order to ensure the monitoring of the work of the board and stronger planning. So far, this has been an exception in some cases. Hospitals, for example, had a reservation. Hospitals did not set up councils until now, but at the moment such an obligation would have been stipulated by law. At the same time, the Council's possibilities are being expanded... if there is a wish, also in medium-sized companies... It is specified that the number of board members should be between three and seven so that it can be applied to the specific nature of the capital company's work. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U427	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U428	46. - a proposal from a group of Members. According to the principles of the Commercial Law, the formation of a board is mandatory for public limited liability companies. As with capital companies. The number of members of the SIA board is set from three to seven, so that it can adapt more flexiblely to the situation. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U429	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U430	47. - a proposal from a group of Members. It is envisaged to complement the Board's functions in line with the principles of good corporate governance, i.e. not only to harmonise the organisation's strategy but also to monitor implementation. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U431	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U432	48. - a proposal from a group of Members. Complements the list of board functions in line with the principles of good corporate governance: to approve, for example, the most important policies on risk management and so on, as is the case elsewhere in corporate governance outside public and public administration. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U433	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U434	49. - a proposal from a group of Members. It provided for no premium to be paid to the management of the capital companies. But, in view of the fact that such a proposal would completely loosen the hands of different ways of doing so, it was not supported by the Commission with a view to clarifying the wording at third reading. So the 49th proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U435	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U436	50. - a proposal from a group of Members. This is a proposal for transitional provisions - various deadlines for the entry into force of different new requirements and rules for public limited-liability companies. It is now supported by the Commission. Let's see for the third reading... Depending on how the law moves forward, we will, of course, change these dates of entry into force in order to provide for reasonable transitional periods for the implementation of these rules. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U437	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U438	Finally, 51. - a proposal by a group of Members, which is also about the date of entry into force of the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U439	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U440	Please support the draft law as a whole at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U441	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U442	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 30 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U443	There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for the third reading of the draft law is 30 May this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U444	Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U445	Consequently, all items on the agenda of the Saeima meeting on 16 May have been dealt with. Before we register, I would like to inform you of the replies to Members' questions given today at 17.00. Member of the Minister for Welfare Ramonas Petravičs, Minister for Improvements in the Payment and Reporting of Assistant Service, Reizniece-Ozola, Augulis, Čakša, Kučinska and Dūklavs. The written response received does not satisfy the applicants, however, the Minister informs that it is not possible to attend the oral response as it is on a regional visit to Daugavpils. Therefore, no replies to Members' questions will be given tonight. On the other hand, new questions have been raised. Members Reizniece-Ozola, Krauze, Valainis, Augulis, Kučinskis, Čakšas and Dūklavs have asked the Minister of Justice Janis Bordans about the political responsibility of the Minister of Justice for ignoring the will of more than 52 000 citizens. The question will be referred to the Minister. Members Reizniece-Ozola, Krauze, Valainis, Augulis, Kučinskis, Čakšas and Dūklavs have submitted a question to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pūcem “On political responsibility of the Minister for the use of funds in support of NGOs for the basic functions of the Ministry”. The question will be referred to the Minister. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Until the results of registration are prepared, the name of the Member Mārtiņš Bondars - a statement.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U446	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, To the members of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, I would like to remind you that an extraordinary meeting of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission will take place in 15 minutes' time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U447	Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U448	Not registered: Arvils Asheradens, Jānis Adamsons, Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla, Uldis Budriķis, Gundars Dauge, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Ivans Klementjevs, Rihards Kols, Linda Liepiņa, Anita Muižniece, Ināra Mūrniece, Romanas Naudiņš, Vitalijs Orlovs, Ramona Petraviča, Karina Sprūde, Edmunds Terrumnieks, Jānis Vitenbergs, Jānis Vucans and Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-16-PT13-537-U449	Thank you. As a result, I declare the sitting of the Saeima closed on May 16.
