ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take a seat in the Chamber so that we can start the Saeima meeting on 17 January 2019. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for changes to the agenda of the meeting and includes the draft law “Amendment to the Water Management Law”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission requests that the draft decision on the approval of Baiba Volfas-Rekstiņa as a judge of the Land Registers Division of the District (City) Court be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Petitions Commission is asking the Member Jūlija Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Linda Liepiņa, Alda Gobzema, Didža Smita, Iveta Benhen-Beken, Erika Pucena, Jānis Vitenberga, Janina Kursīte and Ralfa Nemiro to include on the agenda the request made by the Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs on the action of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in relation to the UN Pact on Migration and the UN Refugee Pact. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission on Social and Labour Affairs proposes that the draft law on "Amendments to the Health Care Financing Act" be placed on the agenda of the sittings. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. And Members Gobzem, Sprūde, Benhen-Beeken, Wittenberg, Schmidt, Pucens and others are asking for the draft law on ‘Amendments to the law on popular voting, legislative proposals and the European Citizens' Initiative’ to be put on the agenda’. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Members have reservations. Colleagues, we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of changes to the agenda of the sitting, including the draft law "Amendments to the law on People's Votes, Legislative Proposals and the European Citizens' Initiative"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 39, against - 42, abstaining - 7. Draft legislation is not on the agenda of the sitting. Members Gobzems, Dūklavs, Krauze, Stepanenko and Sprūde are asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. ‘ Against” applied to speak Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U2	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, I've been watching TV and reading portals for more than a year now. And what do you think is there? ( Insight: “Bendar! ”) ) There is that everything in the country is super! Tax policy is rupling! The reform has been on five! And here, the Union of Greens and Farmers signs this paper that we must reduce VAT. Well, come on, guys, here in the podium, and tell me it's not all that cool in that reform. Forget meat, eggs without shells... And you forgot something else... You know, I've led the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission for a month. This is not the only sector that has turned to me and said: “We have a huge shadow economy. Let us reduce VAT - and what? Revenues in the state budget will increase!’ Hey! You know what we're doing? Let us do this: there will soon be a new government, let us leave this to the new government! In the budget package, we will look at all this and peace at home! What are you talking about today? What are we going to spend time? What are we going to contaminate the ethers? Thank you for your attention. I call for a 'no' vote. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U3	Mr Gobzem, will you really talk about it? I'm sorry! Yes, Aldis Gobzems, who has applied to speak for it. There were uncertainties with the tab. I'm sorry. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U4	Good morning! The main objective of the draft law is to eliminate the shadow economy and create a level playing field for local food producers in order to increase the volume of products produced here on the ground and at the same time to reduce the tax burden on socially disadvantaged groups. On 1 January 2018, the reduced rate of value added tax - five per cent - was introduced for vegetables, fruit and berries. And this decision was fully justified. Firstly, the average wage growth in the sector - about eight percent - has been achieved. Secondly, sales and exports have increased. And above all, VAT revenue in the public budget, as I understand it, has grown. This shows that the reduction in the shadow economy initially included in the calculation was calculated at a much lower level than it was actually calculated. It also means that, when calculating the possible initial fiscal negative effect, it is calculated simply after a table, regardless of how the economy will develop, but taking into account only a mathematical calculation that there will be a lower rate and we will be less taxed. And to note, the rate of VAT on food in Ireland is zero percent, in Malta it is zero percent, in the Netherlands it is zero percent, in Germany it is seven percent, in France it is 5.5 percent, in Italy it is five percent, in Luxembourg it is three percent, in Spain it is four percent. The abolition of VAT on food is a concern for the poorest of society. And this issue needs to be addressed urgently, not wait for an uncreated and, most probably, also in the context of an uncreated government. The inclusion of this issue on the agenda is, moreover, in no way contrary to the draft declaration by the future government of Karina-Aboltiņa. Thus, in fact, those Members who, like Mārtiņš Bondar, call for this issue not to be supported, also call for the less well-off society, call for less costly food, and call for not to support local producers and our local people, but that is understandable. This is understandable, because apparently such a desire to support our people might not be for Bondar, nor for the future government. I therefore call for support for the reduced VAT rate on food and for this draft law to be included on the agenda, as well as for further consideration by the Commission of the technical details of the dispute, as appropriate, within the Commission. Thank you. Support me, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U5	Thank you. So one Member said 'for', one spoke 'for'. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 37, for - 45, for - 5. Draft legislation is not on the agenda of the sitting. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. On the agenda - reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes to refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Aircraft Passenger Data” to the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, which states that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? ( The interdependencies of the fraction are: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Consequently, Members have reservations. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Aircraft Passenger Data” to the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against - 20, it's not. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on Social and Labour Affairs “Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Health Care” submitted by the Social and Labour Affairs Commission be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda, the issue of granting leave. For the granting of unpaid leave to Member Roman Money from 5 February to 7 February this year. Colleagues, we must vote in favour of granting this leave. Please call me! We will be voting for the granting of unpaid leave to Member Roman Money from 5 February to 7 February this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 92, for - no, for - 1. Thank you. Decision adopted. For unpaid leave granted to Ivan Klementyev on 16 and 17 January this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Ivan Klementyev, Member of the Parliament, requesting that unpaid leave be granted on 16 and 17 January this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. The draft decision ‘On the approval of Elīna Leitāne as a district (city) court judge’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U6	Good morning, colleagues! At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 8 January this year, the draft decision ‘On the approval of Elīna Leitane as a judge of the district (city) court’ was examined. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on Elīna Leitani to approve the judge of district (city) court without any limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U7	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of Elīna Leitāne as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On approval of Baiba Volfas-Rekstiņa as a judge of the Land Register Division of the district (city) court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U8	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 15 January this year, the draft decision ‘On the approval of Baiba Volfas-Rikštiņa as a judge of the Land Registers Division of the District (City) Court’ was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I invite you to approve Baibu Volfu–Rekstiņš as a judge of the Land Register Division of the District (City) Court without any limitation of the term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U9	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of Baiba Volfas-Rekstiņš as a judge of the Land Register Division of the District (City) Court! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - examination of a request from Members. Opinion of the Appeals Board The request made by Members Julia Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Linda Liepiņa, Alda Gobzem, Didža Smita, Iveta Benhen-Beken, Erika Pucena, Jānis Vitenberga, Janina Kursīte and Ralfa Nemiro to the Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs “On the Action of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the context of the UN Pact on Migration and the UN Refugee Pact”. On behalf of the Commission - Member Linda Liepiņa.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U10	Good morning, colleagues! It is not a matter of punishing someone, but of allowing Members to ask the Prime Minister and/or the Ministers of the sector about important issues. Given the intensity of the requests made in this term and with which Members have worked... This means that there are questions. And it's only normal to get answers to them. Indeed, I hope that the work of this committee will not be restricted by a coalition treaty or otherwise. Yesterday, the Petitions Commission examined a request from Members of the Saeima to Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs "On the action of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in relation to the UN Migration Pact and the UN Refugee Pact". The Commission received a written reply from the Ministry to this request, and we also listened to and interviewed Mr. Rinkēvičs during the meeting of the Commission. I must admit that this request was based on insufficient information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on these pacts, on UN procedures and on clarification - to abstain from voting. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs believes that, in the vote on migration... on the compact nature of UN migration, the will of the legislator is fully respected. This process on the above-mentioned pacts has not come to an end, and Mr Kola said that this work would continue with the Saeima's Committee on Foreign Affairs. Mr Kola also talked about the communication process between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Foreign Affairs Commission of the Saeima in the context of both of these pacts. The request committee members received a promise from Mr Rinkēvičs that communication and the explanatory process would be improved. After hearing the applicants and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Petitions Commission voted with one vote against, four... with one vote in favour, four votes against, six abstentions and one Member, and admitted that Members' request should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U11	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U12	Good morning! I was one of the signatories to the request, so I believe that it is my duty to explain my position. On 6 December, it was decided not to join the UN Global Pact on Safe, Ordered and Legal Migration. It was done - the representative of Latvia did not attend a compact reception meeting of migration in Marrakech, this is the... was the purpose of the decision. The purpose of the request was to explain the actions of the representative of Latvia to the UN in connection with the 19 December 2018 vote on the compact UN refugees, which is another document, but in essence contains a similar idea. The concern was that the decision taken on the previous UN Pact on Migration was ignored. Taking into account the explanations of Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs on the procedure and commitments, as well as practical steps in the process of adopting resolutions of the UN General Assembly, it was necessary to conclude that there was no effective communication between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Foreign Affairs Commission of the Saeima, where both decisions and their practical aspects and significance should be explained more widely. At the moment, there is no reason to consider this request further. Improvements and clarifications of communication are most likely to be considered in order to reduce mistrust and alarm regarding the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the representation of public interests in international organisations. If the parties concerned draw conclusions and improve their cooperation, this request will have reached its objective and will not have to be heard by the Minister at the Saeima meeting. I therefore request that this request be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U13	Name of Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U14	Good morning, colleagues! I call for this request to be rejected. The request is based on the accusation that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not seem to have done what the Saeima wanted in the context of the Pact on Migration. I think that the Members of the Committee on Petitions themselves recognise that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has nevertheless respected the will of the Saeima. The second accusation is about communication, and indeed, communication always makes sense to improve. At the same time, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not and cannot be obliged to find out from hundreds of documents, resolutions and projects that flow into the UN system, which has caught the attention of one Member. This is an initiative by Members in communication with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - to be interested in the issues on which Members wish to do so. I call for this request to be rejected, with confidence in the capacity of our foreign service to represent Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U15	Thank you. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U16	Dear colleagues, What, then, is this request from Members? Let's simplify the situation. Let's imagine that you, as the owner of an apartment, have authorized a co-owner of apartments in your place to represent your interests at a meeting of the co-owner of the apartments. The only item on the agenda of the general meeting is the decision that all the owners of the apartments should, in future, close the doors and keep them open 24 hours a day. You tell your trustee that this decision should not be supported in your place. The trustee comes to the general meeting and looks at: Anniņa votes for, Pēteritis votes for, Visvaldis votes against from the 12th floor. It seems to the principal that the Almighty is doing the right thing, and Anne and Peter do the wrong thing. So he simply does not vote for this decision and does not represent your interests in the right way, but says: “What are you worried about? Its doors shall not be opened, neither shall the key be taken away from you. In particular, this request is that the Saeima cannot, however, rely on the work of the Minister because there are too many arguments indicating the Minister's willingness to act contrary to the decision of the Saeima, and this attitude is particularly important in future decisions on migration. As you all remember, last December, the Saeima voted in favour of calling on the government not to support the UN Pact on Migration, and this was an exceptional situation where the legislative power intervened in executive power and the government, in particular the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, had to follow with great care. Following a debate in which the Parliament's draft decision was clearly rejected by the Parliament, the Saeima, with a majority, called for such a pact not to be supported by a number of arguments. But what happened next? The Minister began to look for any way in which the Saeima's decision was contrary to what the Minister himself and the head of his office stated publicly. Well, then it started! Our representative didn't go to Marrakech, but... For what... and how the vote on this pact will take place - that was just what, by the way, was thrown out at the commission meeting. Is Latvia going to abstain? Why? Because we have interpreted your decision. Oh, you're not breaking your anger chairs? Don't you shout? Well, that means you're not particularly opposed. ‘ Well, why did we think that we could not vote 'no',' thinks the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 'but refrain from voting on the UN Pact? Well, you see, there were mixed views in the Saeima debate on 6 December. And ManaBalss.lv also collected signatures for and against. We will therefore believe that this view and this decision of the Saeima are absolutely mixed." Dear colleagues, If we allow the decisions of the Saeima to be interpreted in this way, then let us look at the situation that laws adopted by the majority of the Saeima, or let us say, the same decision on the approval of the government, which we will probably soon have to adopt, could all be treated equally mixedly! There was a debate both on and against. There was also a mixed attitude in society. Well, then the government will only work for us three days a week... The decision of the Saeima, colleagues, is not an instruction and is not an order of the Cabinet of Ministers with precise agenda... the order in which to act. The decision of the Saeima expressed a clear legislative stance against the UN compact and the Minister had to comply with it accordingly. Latvia had to know the Minister of Foreign Affairs and to inform the Saeima about its work and report on the planned actions. It is not possible for the past to be thrown away: 'Well yes, we will abstain today from voting on this pact. And we'll also vote on a refugee compact... But we know for ourselves how better, so just don't interfere in our work.” Colleagues! From 6 December to 19 December, when this vote took place, the Minister had enough time to formulate the official position of Latvia based on the decision of the Saeima. Because it is not only the position of Latvia in the vote of 19 December (due to the Minister, it was nothing), it is also important to continue the position of the insistent opponent or restent objector, which would prevent Latvia from applying the commitments that Latvia has not made in relation to Latvia. After the decision of the Saeima, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not addressed the Cabinet of Ministers and, as I understand it, has not received the Cabinet of Ministers' authorisation to act. And that is why Latvia's official position on this issue remains very important, even though it is precisely due to future commitments in the area of migration. Whether the Cabinet of Ministers regulations were complied with. 107 procedure for updating the formulation of the Latvian national position? We don't know that. There are so many threads broken about whether or not this pact is legally binding. But if it contains a commitment from the Member States and an enforcement mechanism, it will be an instrument in the area of custom law to build future commitments. And the lack of Latvia as an insistent opponent in this matter may lead to the situation that the various obligations arising from the Pact will also apply to Latvia in the future. Colleagues, we can imagine a situation in which a representative of Latvia in the European Court of Human Rights will have to defend Latvia's interests and legally justify why Latvia has not wanted to link its path with the UN Pact on Migration. And how will this representative defend this interest? What would be his chance to convince the European Court of Human Rights that Latvia did not wish to join this pact yet? Because what the Latvian representative said before the vote was just: “On the basis of the decision of the Parliament, I am abstaining from voting.” And that's all. There are, in practice, a number of judgments by the European Court of Human Rights, in which it applied an international treaty to which a country has never acceded, and state that the treaty is still legally binding for a country, because abstaining in international law is not an objection. This was the case, for example, in the judgment of the Grand Chamber of 12 November 2008 in Demir and Baikala v. Turkey. The most important case of the UN International Court of Justice on international customs law and the insistant opponent is the 1951 fishing case between the United Kingdom and Norway. However, the United Nations International Court of Justice ruled that the 10-mile rule for Norway was not applicable because Norway, as an insistent opponent, consistently refused to apply it. That is why the UN International Court of Justice decided that Norway is not bound by this custom. And, when colleagues return to the committee sitting yesterday, it is all the more unacceptable that the Minister still, in my opinion, practises the approach of selective vision. Following the decision of the Saeima, an exchange of views also started in the government's house in connection with the ministerial vote on the interpretation of the decision of the UN and the Saeima. The Ministry of Justice wrote a letter of opinion recommending a plan of further action in relation to the Saeima decision and recommending the right way in which the Saeima decision should be interpreted. It had to be translated according to its purpose and nature, not formally focusing only on certain words contained in it. However, in that long letter, which was sent on 11 January, the Minister found and removed from context one phrase that, in his view, justified the minister’s action by concealing all the rest of that letter. Colleagues, I understand that the new government will feel perhaps some of you have got a little upset, but let me remind you: if the Minister has disdainfully treated your opinion before the government is approved, he will be as deaf to your voice after the government vote. If you believe that the Minister should, however, change something in his work and that his attitude towards the Saeima as the highest decision-making power in the country should also be reviewed, then today, colleagues, this request should, in my opinion, be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U17	I closed the debate. Is something to be added on behalf of the Commission, Mrs. Liepiņa? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa: “No!” ) No. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Jūlija Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Linda Liepiņa, Alda Gobzema, Didža Smita, Iveta Benhen-Bekena, Erika Pucena, Janis Vitenberga, Janina Kursīte, Ralfa Nemiro's request to Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs "On Action of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the context of the UN Pact on Migration and the UN Refugee Pact"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 5, against - 52, abstaining - 26. The request is therefore rejected. On the agenda - replies of the Cabinet Members to Members' requests. The reply of the Minister of Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola to the request of Members of the Saeima “On delay of the Minister of Finance to comply with the judgement of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Latvia of 16 November 2017 in the case No. 2016-16-01’. Name of Minister for Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U18	Good morning, Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! In order not to repeat and bulk everything I said last week, I would just like to emphasise briefly that, at a time when the Ministry of Finance included this task in its action plan and worked on amendments to the law and the law in order to actually respond to two decisions of the Constitutional Court at the end of 2017, it followed the following principles: we want to maintain a solidarity tax; the changes must be minimal, because we have promised the continuity of tax policy; the changes must concern as few taxpayers as possible; the tax administration must be as simple as possible and the changes must not have a negative impact on the state budget. Of course, when working on these principles, in any case, the most important thing was to comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court and to do it professionally on the basis of analysis data. Therefore, of course, in the process we took into account current information on 2017 paying statistics, we expected the new national social security contribution ceiling set by the Ministry of Welfare to be able to predict how much solidarity taxpayers will be and how many people will be affected by these changes, consulted the State Revenue Service as administrator and finally also social partners before this draft law came to the Saeima. Basically, as I said, the changes proposed by the government were not large, they were not extensive. And it was done for the purpose of not restoring its wide-ranging debates and discussions, and conceptual discussions on what this tax should be; it was already done in 2017. And I would really like to thank the Members of the Saeima for having voted in favour of maintaining the solidarity tax, because it is one of the most important - not the only one! - measures to reduce inequalities and measures to reduce progressive tax policies. The tax reform has done a great deal to reduce inequalities, but much remains to be done. I think you know that, too. And what I think is important when we talk about reducing inequality: first of all, we need to understand that tax policy is not the only instrument. Its resources are limited. And if you are thinking about tax policy - there too, I must say, the range of measures that can reduce inequality is not as wide. I therefore also call on the new government to think about what measures, but bear in mind that the solidarity tax is one of the few but very important instruments for reducing inequalities. And finally, wish. Experience shows that every change, every reform - more or less - requires enormous work, great patience, ability to cooperate with each other and to do so with respect. And that's what I wish. If you manage to build a government and cooperate with each other as one team, then you will be able to do at least some of the bigger or smaller things in the next four years and achieve goals for Latvia as a whole, which others still think about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U19	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U20	Hello, dear colleagues! ... There's light here? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (A. Neighbourhood sub-scenario) Yeah. All right. I received an invitation yesterday on Twitter that the debate and communication of the Saeima should improve. And it was suggested that the speeches should start with the theme "My Little Soups"; that this could make our debate so much more loved and better. However, I think it cannot prevent us and save us from the content that is to be handed over today to the Minister for Finance for her delay in introducing the judgment of the Constitutional Court. In 2017, the Constitutional Court rejected the applicant’s claim at very many points and recognised the non-compliance of this law with only one Article of the Satversme. One article! And the Constitutional Court understood that a reasonable period of time was necessary to make tax changes. But it seems that the Ministry of Finance had understood it by itself and delayed implementation of this law as long as possible. In addition, the Constitutional Court recognised that this law was incompatible with the “Principle of Human Rights” section of the Satversme. Perhaps this demand would not have been made, and we would work together, as we did, to correct this mistake if it were not the last drop and the guide did not break. Because it is the leader on which the whole of this reform of the fisheries sector, which unfortunately has not achieved its objective of reducing inequalities, is hanging. And perhaps we would not have made this request either if the Minister of Finance had admitted his mistake. But the opposite has happened. And probably this slogan for good work champions you have sticked up for a long time. That is not how we can continue. Politicians must not become self-esteem, because it is dangerous not only for the party itself, as we see with the results of the Greens/Farmers Union after the elections, but also for society as a whole. Request - this is a special form. It involves not only listening, but also asking for a resignation afterwards. In my view, the Minister of Finance would deserve this... and will receive this leave from the Minister's post, I hope with the approval of the new government. Thank you, my little fuckers! I hope that we will work, acknowledge our mistakes and correct them in good time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U21	Name to Member Viktor Valain. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Well, fucker!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U22	Good morning, colleagues! I appeal once again to the applicants about the meaning and nature of the request - however, you should read what you are saying about this judgment of the Constitutional Court. It wasn't Dana Reizniece-Ozola. This was a task for the Members of the Saeima, including you (Minimum: “It was for you!” “We don’t!” ), to correct these errors, and the Saeima did not come at any time, including you, with a proposal to the Ministry of Finance to do something in this case. The Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance came up with a proposal, presented and led, and this issue was resolved by the end of December. There are other judgments of the Constitutional Court that are handed over to the legislator, that is, the Saeima, for example, on the interest of shared property... This is not a question for the Minister of Justice. It is a question for the Saeima to deal with it itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U23	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U24	Minister! Dear colleague, The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Surfy!” ) Dear Dan Reizniece-Ozola! I know that you wanted the solidarity tax to be the one who entered your name and surname as a synonym for the word “Janna d’Arka”. Don't do it! Don't do it! I understand. Breaking a blouse for 45 days - I fight for reducing inequality in Latvia! About the tax system! On all this! I must tell you honestly: I am not sorry to admit that you have been successful. I would not even regret not to write the request, or to put it more precisely, I would not write the request if you had had good intentions but did not. We wanted to be as good as ever. You, Minister, have done what you would write for 45 days, not against the word Jeanna d’Arka, but - you asked. As a typical example... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr. Reizniece-Ozola: “I wanted to cancel... “ And, you know, see... How did you ask? Racking the blutch, telling you that you are the only one who fights against inequality, telling you that you are saving the tax system. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “Because you wanted to abolish the solidarity tax altogether!” ) That was not the case! That was not the case! That was not the case! And it wasn't because... this request shows this that nothing has been done for the year or, to be precise, nothing has been done for the half year. Under your direction! You shouldn't have done that, Mr. Valains, the role of the Saeima. You shouldn't have done anything there. It was simply a matter of doing what the court had pointed out to be wrong. I'm sorry! I'm sorry! So what do you do? And then come here and tell all those fairy tales? I'm sorry for what? You know, reducing inequality... If you had so much time this morning... What are we talking about? Possibilities or outputs? In today’s world, it is extremely difficult to reduce inequalities on the outcome side. On the side of the possibilities must be reduced. What does that mean? That means one thing. This means that people need to be given knowledge, they need to be given the opportunity to receive medical treatment, not to adopt tax laws that reduce revenue from the state budget, which reduces potential, which, in fact, is! - reduces the possibility that we can now help those who are least. That is reducing inequality in your sense. I understand. I understand that you want to be Social Democrats - the new Social Democrats. Nisha's busy. There are Social Democrats! Some have called themselves the green Social Democrats... And you are now paving the way for the new Social Democrats. And let you succeed! Good luck!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U25	I closed the debate. Does the Minister for Finance have anything to add? No, no. We therefore consider the issue to be dealt with. On the agenda - the response of the Minister of Health Anda Čakša to the request of Members of the Saeima "On the responsibility of the Minister of Health in implementing the Health Financing Act and access to health services for citizens from 1 January 2019". The name is Anda Chakša, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U26	Good morning! Good morning, honourable colleagues! I must thank you very much. Thank you for what? The focus on healthcare. This has not been enjoyed by this area for many years. And unfortunately, these 20 years are very well present in the situation in which we are each in need of medical help or medical examination. And the question was, how to get out of this situation if for 20 years there has been no adequate funding, so that doctors and sisters can work respectfully and that patients can receive treatment respectfully when it is necessary. In my view, the Health Care Financing Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2018, is actually only the first step, laying a foot in the doors so that healthcare funding is not on the basis of the surplus principle, but receives stable, transparent funding and that those citizens who need it at that time can receive treatment services. Yeah. The fact that as of 1 January 2019 the people could not see their status... I take responsibility that this situation has not been technically resolved on 1 January. I can say that today, perhaps even in the evening, absolutely all the registers will be connected and will provide very clear answers on how the citizen is involved in the system. The work on this system has been very difficult and this problem is very difficult to deal with, but I must say thank you very much to all those who have been involved in it. And here I am talking not only about IT specialists, but also about absolutely all the ministries and institutions that have provided their data from the registers so that this great platform, which has not been in Latvia so far, can be formed. One of the questions is how many voluntary contributions have already been made... And that day, on 2 January, when I was at the Commission of Request... over one day, 1,000 people contributed, aware of their responsibility for their health. This seems to me to be a very important indicator, because with this law we show that health care is also our own responsibility. Yeah, on 1 January, this technical solution didn't work, but... Perhaps now is the time to review... finding a possibility for the disabled in Group III to be included in this protected or national group of automatically insured persons. And here I can only say thank you all together if such a solution is found and this group will also find its place in the full package of services. Once again, thank you to the whole industry, given how difficult it has worked so far. Thanks to this law, it has been able to receive both last year and this year an increase in wages so that it can work respectfully in the sector. And most importantly, it is about society once again. Because only yesterday we received a large study that has been carried out - about the extent to which services many people are satisfied with in Latvia. A serious study carried out over the last year together with the European Structural Funds. I must say that the results are amazing, because people appreciate the services that specialists provide them, the investigations that they receive. Yes, there is a lot of work related to communication and understanding as the easiest way to get to it when a service is needed. Therefore, I can only wish that the new minister succeeds even better and that patients in Latvia can be satisfied with treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U27	Thank you to the Minister for Health for the answer. ( Independence: “Last time you were called Minister for Health! ” ) Open a debate. Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U28	Dear colleagues, I would suggest looking at the problem of introducing these two baskets in a slightly broader context. Citizens' trust in the state depends to a large extent on the fact that the state does not show indifference to its citizens. What a message from the reform of the FAO government's health was received by those citizens who learned at the end of last year... They worked in micro-enterprises legally so far or received royalties and lived from them... or simply worked for an employer who was not honest and did not pay social tax because of his social vulnerability... These people received a message - because they are bad taxpayers, they are not really important to this country and can get a smaller healthcare basket and survive something... How they Do (Dep. I. Ribena’s intermediate call.) ... how they get together. And then this chaos with the introduction of two baskets! The whole process is characterized by indifference to how our healthcare system looks from the user, from the human side. As a person who now has to go to a doctor and has serious health problems... or maybe not so serious, but they risk becoming serious if they don't help him in time... How his perspective now looks like our healthcare system and governments... previous governments... treatment of this citizen? It does not look very good, it does not build confidence in the country. I would suggest to the previous government, the FAO Government, however, to take responsibility for the deterioration of people's confidence in having healthcare work for them, and I would also offer us, the new Saeima, when it comes to healthcare in the future, to look not only at the system and tax collection, but also at another perspective. Let us work better on tax collection, thinking about VAT schemes and other things that exist in that country! But when we look at the healthcare system, let us think that we have fewer than two million people and that they are all important to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U29	The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U30	Colleagues! I thought... I admit that every one of those who sit here on TV has seen “SuperBingo” or “ LatLoto” draw lots of balls in a box, pull out one ball, read this number on the counter. It must be acknowledged that the Ministry of Health, under the leadership of Mrs. Čakša, has also worked on a similar basis when it was necessary to answer the question of how many people will be excluded from receiving full healthcare services from the beginning of this year? There's 80,000, there's 100,000, there's another number being grabbed. Well, in this request... in response to the request, we get a new happy number, a happy number - it could be about 60,000 people. At the same time, however, it is written - 60 thousand people might not be present, because it is not clear how many of these 60 thousand people working in the legal form of economic activity in Latvia end up paying taxes and receiving health care services, because until now they do not work with databases that have been working for a long time since 1 January. And I have a question here: how is it that from 1 January the law should have entered into force, but the databases still don't work? Well, let's hope... Mrs Chaksh said that the databases would work in full order tonight or tomorrow. We'll see. I very much doubt that. Two million were allocated to the implementation and development of these databases. Two million are essentially wasted! No database in time. Moreover, seven days ago, a representative of the National Health Service said that these data are not, by their very nature, together, because some databases are available in Excel format, while other databases are available, written in guilloche. Cute, colleagues! With pen - in the 21st century! And we want all people to get quality health care here in Latvia, although we do not know which people can get this health care. We all think about ensuring proper salaries for medical staff, we think about ensuring adequate health care for every citizen of Latvia. That is why I am calling for: let us leave SuperBingo and LatLoto where they should be, and let us not play with our citizens! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U31	Name of Member Dace Rukšāne-Šchipčinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U32	Hello, colleagues! Today it is already 17 January 2019. I repeat that the Health Care Financing Act was adopted by the Saeima on 14 December 2017. In the course of the year, it has not become clear what the impact of this reform will be and what it will mean specifically for people - who will have and who will not have access to healthcare. Moreover, from the outset, industry experts warned that it was unclear how many persons are not insured within the meaning of this law. The only thing that is clear is that time was lost, taxpayers' money was spent. Moreover, this unprepared and unthought-out reform has increased uncertainty, distrust and inequality in society. This is neither a normal situation nor a permissible situation, so I look forward to the concrete answers of Mrs Čakša and I believe that she should also have political responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U33	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U34	Hello, colleagues! I don't plan to speak in this part, I'm going to talk when we... Today, I hope, let us take a decision to postpone the entry into force of this provision even until 1 July. This rule obliges our citizens to pay for a full basket of medical services. However, when I heard today Minister Čakša say that the fact that a thousand of our people have made contributions in one day - that this is a sign of their responsibility - I would just like to say one thing if the Minister allows me to say that it is because people feel responsible, it means that she does not even understand what is happening. People are making these contributions for one reason only: they are afraid. They are afraid to die without adequate medical treatment. I think each Member has received letters and questions from people who do not understand what we wanted to achieve in our country by this law. I think we are lucky that there is still no claim in the Constitutional Court, because this law, for which we are now demanding responsibility from Mrs. Čakša, contains norms that are not only unfair, increasing mortality, but also violate fundamental human rights and are not in keeping with the Constitution. I think that Mrs Čakša must certainly take responsibility both for the content of the law and for the organisational chaos that has shown the inability to manage this area so important to our country. I don't know what those surveys were, but we heard only one in the pre-elections, that people are talking: medicine, medicine and medicine, priority No. 1. And how we manage this priority of our country is indicative of the quality of public administration as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U35	I closed the debate. Does the Minister for Health Anda Čakša want to add something? No, no. The issue has therefore been examined. Honourable Members! Changes to the agenda of the sitting The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption asks the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Aircraft Passenger Data” to be reviewed at first reading without re-examination by the responsible commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs asks the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Health Care” to be reviewed at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Reindeer: “Yes!” ) Are there any objections? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Reindeer: “Yes!” ) Colleagues, are there objections to this amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Fertilisers’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Armands Krauze.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U36	Hello, colleagues! The draft law has been examined by the Commission. No proposals were received. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U37	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on the movement of fertilisers. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Regulated Occupations and Recognition of Professional Qualifications”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Jānis Krišāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U38	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Regulated Occupations and Recognition of Professional Qualifications” (No. 29/Lp13). The draft law has been prepared and submitted by the Ministry of Transport through the Cabinet of Ministers and is in essence such that the recital in point 42 of Directive 2005/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council states that the requirements of the Directive for the recognition of professional qualifications do not need to be applied to professions regulated in the field of transport. They already lay down European Union regulations. The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs discussed this draft law at its meeting and unanimously supported the first reading. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support this draft law at the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U39	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Regulated Occupations and Recognition of Professional Qualifications”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U40	Deadline for submission of proposals - 25 January.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U41	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 25 January this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Real Estate State Cadastre”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U42	Good morning, colleagues! On 8 January, the Legal Commission watched the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the State Cadastre of Real Estate”. The draft law provides that in the Law on the State Cadastral of Real Estate, the words “the municipal privatisation commission or the public limited liability company “Privacy Agency” shall be replaced by the words “the residential privatisation commission”. This proposal is in fact due to the fact that in the future it is planned to change the name of the Privatisation Agency, as well as many other laws and regulations already provide for such regulation that the laws regulating privatisation of residential houses are established by privatisation... Privatisation public authorities. On behalf of the Legal Commission, please support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U43	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Real Estate State Cadastre”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U44	The deadline for submitting proposals is 22 January this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U45	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 22 January this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to Land Books Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U46	This amendment is in fact related to the same thing. In substance, the following amendments have already been made, which will enter into force on 1 December 2019. At present, however, there are no such conditions that there is also a need to change this law. And so, on behalf of the Legal Commission, I would ask for this amendment not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U47	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Land Books. Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 38, against - 49, refraining from - 1. Draft law has been rejected. On the agenda - draft law “On the recognition of the law on the management of the European Union structural funds as invalid”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U48	Hello, colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined this draft law. Since the 2004-2006 programming period of the European Union Structural and Cohesion Funds has been completed, a draft law has been drawn up in order to reduce regulation, which is intended to give effect to the law on the management of the European Union Structural Funds. The Commission has supported this draft law. And I also call on the other Members to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U49	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “On the recognition of the Law on the Management of the Structural Funds of the European Union as forceless! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U50	The deadline shall be 22 January this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U51	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 22 January this year. On the agenda - draft law “On the recognition of the EU Cohesion Fund project management law as invalid”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U52	Like the previous draft law. As part of this law, the European Commission has also made the last two final payments in the second quarter of 2015. All 45 projects co-financed by the Cohesion Fund in the field of transport and environment have been closed. Consequently, the programming period of the European Union Cohesion Fund 2004-2006 in Latvia has finished. And the Cohesion Fund project management law and the laws underlying it are to be repealed. The Commission supported this draft legislation at first reading. Please also support at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U53	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “On the recognition of the EU Cohesion Fund project management law as invalid! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U54	January 22, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U55	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 22 January this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”, second reading. Aldis Adamovičs, on behalf of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U56	Dear President, Colleagues! Good morning! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined amendments to the Law on Public Procurement for the second reading. I would remind you: it is about exceptions to the services provided by experts in procurement procedures in universities and colleges, as well as in the accreditation and licensing process of courses. And the other too... exceptional cases of procurement for investigative and security services. The Commission has received four proposals for a second reading. 1. - Mr Feldman's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U57	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U58	2. - Mr Feldman's proposal. Partly supported and included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U59	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U60	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U61	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U62	And 4. - Mr Feldman's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U63	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U64	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U65	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U66	Deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading: 31 January 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U67	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 31 January this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the law “On the declaration of cash at the state border”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U68	Colleagues, see the draft law “Amendment to the law on the declaration of cash at the state border” (No. 11/Lp13). Three proposals have been received for the second reading. 1. is the proposal of the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U69	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U70	2. There is also a proposal from the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U71	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U72	And the last one is the Commission's own proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U73	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U74	Consequently, I also call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U75	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Declaration of Cash at the State Border”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U76	24 January this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U77	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 24 January this year. On the agenda - Draft Law on Water Management Act, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Arthur Tom Ples.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U78	Hello, colleagues! The aim of the draft law “Amendment to the Water Management Act” is to establish the mandate of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development to approve flood risk assessment, flood site maps and flood risk maps developed in accordance with the requirements of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2007 on flood risk assessment and management and the Water Management Law. This amendment provides for the addition of Article 9 of the law by requiring the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development to approve the said assessment and flood risk maps. The Commission calls for this draft law to be declared urgent and is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U79	Thank you. So we must vote in favour of declaring the draft law urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on Water Management Act! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent. And for first-reading support. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Water Management Act! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U80	Deadline for submission of proposals - 24 January. And consider at second reading on 31 January.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U81	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 24 January this year. Meeting of the Saeima - 31 January this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Aircraft Passenger Data”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Juris Jušaks.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U82	Good morning, colleagues! The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption has submitted draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Aircraft Passenger Data”, which provides for the establishment of administrative liability in the field of aircraft passenger data processing and competence of the State Police in the application of penalties. The draft law is part of the system of codification of administrative infringements of sectors implemented by the Cabinet of Ministers. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U83	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Aircraft Passenger Data”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U84	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 1 March of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U85	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 1 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Health Care Financing Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Andris Skride.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U86	Good morning, my little fuckers! ( Merry laughter.) In recent times, we have been discussing a great deal of what to do with the Health Finance Act - to leave the existing version or still to be accountable to our citizens and to improve and improve it. Of course, it is clear that this law needs to be improved. And what do these amendments involve? They provide that the entry into force of this law in respect of the two basket system will be carried out before 1 July. This will ensure that, while we are making this improvement, doctors will no longer be wrongdoers, failing to do what is technically impossible, and that during the transition period, the National Health Service will be able to fully reconcile the registers, prevent errors. Other manually entered registers will be able to link data. Doctors and medical institutions will be able to integrate into the NSA system in a timely manner and adapt the system to day-to-day work. And citizens will be able to make sure where they are in the basket and, if necessary, to sort out data in the registers. This is its technical side. And that other side will of course be an improvement of the law itself, as well as, in fact, not voluntary but state compulsory health insurance. Given that we cannot comply with the rule of law at the moment, these amendments, of course, had to be adopted earlier. And today we call on the... Commission to support it in the urgent procedure, and we call on the Saeima to see amendments to this law in the urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U87	Thank you. Colleagues! The Commission is asking that the draft law be declared urgent. Do Members want to debate urgency - those who have applied to debate? No, no. So Members do not want to debate the urgency. Let's vote. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Health Care”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 89, for - 1, for - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent. The Commission is asking to support the draft law at first reading. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova. Do you have 12 minutes?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U88	Colleagues, welcome again! I will, of course, call on you to support these amendments as a matter of urgency, because these are the amendments that the entire Latvian people expect from us, which are solidarity with those people who, perhaps because they cannot make voluntary contributions in accordance with the provisions of this law, will be denied full medical treatment. I call on you not only to support the amendments today, but also to do everything to prevent our citizens from being divided into two boxes - those that have the opportunity to get a full basket and those that do not have that opportunity. I call for every effort to be made to bring this provision to an end. Because, first of all, as I said, this norm is unfair, increases mortality, violates human rights, and there is a great chance that it is even unconstitutional. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Ribena’s intermediate call.) Secondly, currently, according to the latest statistics, voluntary contributions have been made by only 5.5 thousand people, and overall this is for our budget... increases our budget to EUR 797 thousand. The optimistic predictions made by Mrs Čakša during the pre-election period were that there would be seven million out of 30,000 people. These numbers do not come together. We receive less than a million, not even a million, when we train people. Thirdly, I would simply like to read to you a short letter from Group III disabled Ilona Vīnberga: “The worst thing is that, in contact with the National Health Service, I received a written reply that Group III disabled people will be insured from 2020, but on condition that the health tax will be paid for the previous three years.” And, you know what the number is? That's 464 euros and 40 cents. So, almost 500 euros for every person in Group III who is disabled, so that from 2020 he is automatically included in the insured box, as I call it. And Ilona continues: “Well, where do we, with 64 euros and three cents of initial disability pension, take them almost 500 euros? Even if pensions are indexed in our country and a couple of euros are added, just as much is removed from the social benefit. And so for seven years now, in my case, it's 128 euros and six cents - it's a month's money, despite the huge increase in food and services prices." Thus, the third argument is the minimal fiscal effect of the unfair norms of the law, which are incompatible with the Satversme and violate human rights. Above all, I hope we are all committed to combating the increase in inequality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Members Adamovičs, Latkovskis, Pūce, Zakaitistovs and Strīķe are asking to continue the Saeima sitting without interruption - until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The Saeima meeting, if necessary, will be continued without interruption. We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member, Inese Ixten.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U90	Hello, dear colleagues! I think that instead of all the Members... There should not be new Members here, but... The amendments had to be directed at the Cabinet of Ministers. Accurately aware of the situation that illegalities are taking place in the country with 1 January, the Ministry is doing nothing. I can't understand that until now. So the Ministry of Health deals with stress therapy. Stress for doctors, stress for patients, stress for institutions, for all. Sometimes a small stress fits. I hope that this stress will only improve our health. On those baskets. Well, they're illogical. I'm totally against two baskets. We remember - we have a solidarity tax. We remember that. We have to pay taxes. People would not want others to get sick and perhaps die. We have people collecting money, donating money to help our peers survive and make healthy to help young mothers with children. When I read all this, I run into tears. It's impossible... I'm happy to help everyone. At the same time, we need to think about the high social taxes that we already pay. There is no logic. Go on. We get different numbers, different information... From the beginning, these two baskets had an impact on 300,000 people, leading to up to 60 thousand people. But I draw attention to the fact that we should not talk about thousands, let's talk about one thing. Every citizen matters to us, and every person is a whole world. I wouldn't have the full cart either. I have been working since 1986 every year. Just because I'm sick, I wouldn't get this cart. The third group is EUR 64. That's it. It wouldn’t come to me either. — Dep. A. Čakša: “Yo?” ) because the State Revenue Service provides incorrect information to the State Social Insurance Agency. System inoperative. I recently learned that I am still the manager of the micro-enterprises tax... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M. Kučinskis: “The Saeima is not a micro-enterprise!” ) or, I'm sorry, the head of the company. Now we made it all. But in fact, the new house company has been dissolved, but I am still the head of the micro-enterprises. It therefore calls on all institutions to evaluate their own databases, which are not correct and inaccurate. And I'll tell you what the reality with these baskets would be. I was in a hospital. I was 11 days in a heavy room where I saw people get in. I saw a woman who was imported in half paralyzed. And just because she had an appropriate procedure, which is expensive, and he immediately pulled out this clot (think about how highly developed medicine!) A woman began to move her hands in half an hour -- she's fine with her. If she were in that little basket, she would still be paralyzed and perhaps already dead. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Čakša’s intermediate call.) So I am calling for the vote, and I am calling for support for these amendments, as well as for further improvements to the health system laws that will be proposed, because we cannot live in this way. We must take responsibility for our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U91	The name is Sandy Riekstin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U92	Hello, colleagues! I will not talk about this particular case - we have already spoken cross and cross-cutting - but I will turn to my colleague. A model of hypocrisy that you have just shown here... Well, you have the talent! I'm going to remind you of something before you come here next time and imagine the defenseer of the disabled. At a Riga Council where you were a coalition Member very recently, my colleague, Mrs. Strike, has repeatedly put forward to you a proposal to provide people with disabilities with decent housing (Dep. V. Orlovs: “The essence of the matter has to be talked about!” ), which you have repeatedly rejected. And now you come here and tell me that you have received a letter and how you protect people with disabilities. Just a little bit of a conscience! It would have been shameful! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U93	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U94	Dear President, Honourable Members! As the government was mentioned, however, I would like to say a few words, because this law was passed by the previous parliament at the very end of the year. What we said back then and what we have to do... Of course, as any new law will require clarification, nothing will be needed. One example is Group III disabled people, which is really worth discussing... How did they get... and how we can fix it. But with regard to the very much said... Well, I think the speaker has a terrible picture of micro-enterprises. I would like to say to her that the Saeima, where you are currently working, is not yet a micro-enterprise, so you already have the whole cart by law. But! Let us not forget that everyone is paying for something. Healthcare is financed from all other taxes. And so the picture and data that will appear next week will show us these groups that are and are not. That is why we are, of course, in favour of the transfer for a few months - it is only logical. But I have a big request. I really look forward - I told you last time that I was waiting! - the new government to start working, and we will be very, very, very careful to follow... but please don't finish the system! Do not finish what has been created to finally bring millions to health care. I don't know if you've seen in the same e-health... Ads on Latvian Television - 2012, 2013... advertising that everything is in place, everything is already running. After what we got... assembled over the counters... put the money in... with an unknown result to put it all together. In fact, what Mrs. Chachsh has done in recent years will continue to be appreciated and evaluated by the medical staff. Just do everything very, very intelligently to... Don't finish what we've done! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U95	Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U96	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, at this time, when Mr Kučinska is asking us not to damage the meaning of the reform, we are dealing with the fact that we are called, in substance, not to change the approach that social taxation will in future be encouraged by excluding people from healthcare. I am grateful to the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs for bringing these amendments forward today on an urgent basis, and I am very grateful to those who are looking from the citizens' perspective, from the citizens' perspective to health care and from the country's duty to ensure this. People who have not paid social tax are not always unfair themselves. They're sometimes... have often worked for rogue employers. And moving, of course, is easier... It is, of course, easier: from these people now to collect some money or to claim voluntary contributions than to combat tax evasion where it is to be fought, that is to say, in companies. We really need to fight this. But let us be honest with those people who have legally paid taxes in different regimes permitted by the state and who now... it turns out they don't have to get this whole cart either. I think that in the meantime, while we look at how to improve the implementation of this law, we must, however, get to a better solution to this situation, as the Chair of the Social and Labour Commission said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U97	Name to Member Juris Jušas.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U98	Welcome again, colleagues. Undoubtedly, the main thing is man. And if we choose the Health Financing Act as an instrument to curb the shadow economy, then I think it is absolutely cynical and unacceptable, because, as I said, man has the greatest value to us. If we are experimenting with the most valuable thing we have in this way, then I think it is criminal. We talked here today about the fact that, in fact, although we are not fully aware, the number of people is very significant. People who have been involved in the statutory tax regime established by the State have been taxed - the same micro-enterprise tax, which is 15 per cent of the company's total turnover. And sometimes... and it is often the case that this social tax paid by micro-enterprises is higher for each taxpayer than the social tax paid by taxpayers of the general scheme. So this, I think, is very clear... a shouting case - a huge part of society is left out of this full range of medical services. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Ribena’s intermediate call.) However, I call on the Ministry of Health and the medical profession not to involve them in these measures to combat the shadow economy, but to entrust them to the Ministry of Finance, law enforcement bodies, the State Revenue Service, and at the same time to think about the staff working in the field of health, who is now more involved in the acquisition of these systems and therefore spend less time on their direct responsibilities, namely the provision of health services to people who need them. We see that there is absolute - absolute! - a lack of understanding of what to do in the situation, how to distinguish, at what point... how to understand when a couple of services available to a person changes, at which point the system has to be removed or at which point he has to be expelled from the Chamber corridor, because suddenly he has changed some form of tax treatment and suddenly no longer has a full shopping cart, but has to have a limited shopping cart. What family doctors and these health care professionals are facing at the moment, who are working in hospitals - they are spending as much as possible at the moment, without giving up a lot of time to fight... to carry out this duty imposed on them - to be tax inspectors and to follow where the patient lives... at which point in the basket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U99	The name of the Member, Andrejs Clementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U100	Good morning, honourable Members! If there are so many Members who are working on the government declaration today, it is said that we need to correct this law, then we need to submit such a bill to the next Saeima sitting. Because today we are talking about amendments to the law only to move the law into half a year. If, as a matter of urgency, we do not now work on the new version, it means that we will not be able to offset this money in the state budget that was intended, and... or release, let's accept Group III... I would like to remind the Members that the Group in the previous Parliament made a proposal that Group III should also be exempted from contributions, but that required two million. And if we support such a proposal, then we need to find two million in the public budget to compensate the health sector for this matter. This means that any of our proposals that will affect the exempted groups... whether they will be micro-enterprises or group III... We need to see where we're going to take this money and how we'll compensate... and do we need to abolish this rule at all... and then all Latvian citizens will have the right to receive such services. But I say once again that the Social and Labour Commission has to submit a new draft law. As soon as I have seen the government's declarations, no one is talking about it at all. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Ribena’s intermediate call.) And there's no data in the state budget on how we're going to compensate those who don't get... out of 40-50 thousand people who will voluntarily pay their contributions... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Ribena’s intermediate call.) Yeah, 800,000. This means that we need to see in a new declaration today how you will compensate this money... or completely repeal the provisions of this Law relating to voluntary contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U101	I closed the debate. Is there something to be added on behalf of the Commission before the vote? No, no. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Health Care"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 89, for - 1, for - 1. So the draft law at first reading is supported. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U102	If Members do not object, at second reading...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U103	Are Members opposed to the second reading of the draft law without re-examination by the committee responsible? There is no objection. I understand that the Commission is calling for the draft law to be examined at second reading. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second final reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Health Care"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 89, for - 1, for - 1. The law is passed. Thank you. Colleagues, the agenda of the sitting has been examined. With regard to the replies to Members' questions scheduled today, I would like to inform you about the question to Arvil Asheraden, the Minister for Economic Affairs of Member States, Mr Zariņa, Mr Krišāns, Mr Ločmele-Lunova, Mr Agešin and Mr Adamson, about the implementation of aid for subsidised electricity production by economic operators without the coordination of the European Commission. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but Members do not wish to ask further oral questions. So answering Members' questions today at 5 p.m. remains behind. The question of the Members Rubika, Adamson, Lochmel-Lunovo, Nikonova and Krišāns on the drafting of legislation on the abolition of the mandatory procurement component has been received. This is a matter of urgency and we give it to the Minister for Economic Affairs to respond. Time for registration of Members. Please call me! Please register the Members! Time for notifications. Dear colleagues, children from Ukraine visited the Saeima, and they brought to Latvia a "Book of Goodness", which brings together stories about the country, its people and the future of the Ukrainian population. This book can be viewed in the voting room. Name for the statement to Member John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U104	Dear colleagues, 20 minutes later, a meeting of the Group of Members' Group will be held in the Yellow Hall to facilitate cooperation with the Russian Parliaments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U105	Name for the statement to Member Inese Lībins-Egner.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U106	Dear colleagues, In 15 minutes, the Yellow House will also host the establishment of a group of Members to facilitate cooperation with the Swiss Parliament. Welcome!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U107	Name for the statement to Ms Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U108	Dear colleagues, In 15 minutes... Now? A group of Members shall be established to facilitate cooperation with the French Parliament. Please specify the time of Interparliamentary relations at the office, because it has been said in the past - 15 minutes after the meeting, but now it is... there is a conflict with another group.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U109	Thank you, colleagues. I hope everyone heard and drew attention to what Maria Golubeva said. Name for Maria Golubeva to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U110	Not registered: Members Jānis Dūklavs, Ivans Klementjevs, Ieva Krapāne, Ramona Petravičs and Ivars Zariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-17-PT13-513-U111	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
