ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take a seat in the Chamber so that we can begin the sitting of the Saeima on 10 October 2019. Dear colleagues, we are honoured that today we will be addressed by the Chairman of the Swedish Parliament Riksdagas, Andreas Norlēns, who visits Latvia on an official visit. Latvia and Sweden are united by special relations and close parliamentary cooperation between the Saeima and Riksdaga. We are close neighbours, bound by close bilateral cooperation. This year is a special year for the Swedish Parliament: a centenary of Swedish democracy is being celebrated. Andreas Norlene has been elected to Riksdaga since 2006 from the Moderati Party. The President of the Swedish Parliament was elected in September 2018, previously President of the Riksdaga Constitution Committee. He's got a doctor's degree in law. Let us give the floor to the President of the Swedish Parliament. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U2	Madam President, Members of Parliament! It's a real honour for me to visit the Saeima today. It is a real honour for me to take this opportunity to talk about Latvia and Sweden, about democracy, its challenges and opportunities. I would like to thank you, Madam President, for accepting our delegation. This excellent opportunity to address you and colleagues is a real proof of how close and close our bilateral relations are. Our delegation in Latvia is in the framework of an official visit, but I think that this visit can be seen as a demonstration, a manifesto of how important democracy is for us. I call it a manifesto for a number of reasons. First of all, Sweden is currently celebrating. Sweden's centenary of democracy takes place in Stockholm for four years. In 1918, Parliament decided to introduce general and equal elections for both men and women. This reform was introduced after a long effort to promote and support this movement. A celebration is currently taking place in the Swedish Parliament, marking the boom of democracy. I also talked about the manifesto of democracy because in 2019 we celebrate the 30th anniversary of the fall of the Iron Curtain. 1989 has become very important in history. This year, in Eastern Europe, oppression and totalitarian regimes ended and people's desire for freedom, democracy and dignity overcame the power of the tyranny. At the same time, this manifesto also marks the thirty years of the Baltic Way, when the people of Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania joined their hands in the name of human rights, freedom and dignity. This movement reflected respect for people, dreams and efforts. And it was done directly in the hands. Finally, it must be said that this manifesto is also a reflection of your centenary of independence and democracy. In this context, I would like to mention that women in Latvia had the opportunity to be elected and elected for two years before this happened in the Swedish Parliament. In this respect, you have been ahead of us in the area of gender equality. But at the same time, it also shows that your modern democracy has been built for 100 years of historical heritage. Whether it is 100 years or 30 years - in any case, we must demonstrate our desire to develop in a democratic way and remember the victories of the past. With this inspiration, we will be able to continue developing democracy for the next 100 years. As you Latvians have pointed out in your celebration program, quoting Rainis: “... we will be as big as our will.” Dear colleagues, Our countries have come to this day in various ways, but yet we have many things in common: we are neighbouring countries, we have close historical ties and we have the same values. In the 17th century, Riga was the largest city in Sweden. Today, we have excellent cooperation in both the European Union and Nordic and Baltic countries. I think that this cooperation is very important both in principle and at the same time because it is mutually beneficial cooperation both for both countries and for the region. I think that the common one between our countries and our cultures has contributed a great deal to promoting solidarity and friendship between us. Sweden has strongly supported freedom and democracy, both in Latvia and in the entire Baltic region. As Chairman of the Riksdag Parliament of Sweden, I would like to mention what happened in May 1990 when my predecessor invited the representatives of the newly elected parliaments of the Baltic States to visit Riksdag. This activity was, in my opinion, seen as an important signal that the Baltic States are being supported at this difficult time. At the same time, it must be said that it was not at the time that we took the risk, but you - not at the time we got the freedom, but you got the freedom. The opposition to the Soviet tyranny was not dangerous in Stockholm, but it was dangerous here, but you did it anyway. When it comes to the Iron Curtain, it was a scar that divided Europe and divided Eastern and Western countries and cities, all of which had a very rich culture and history. Instead of the Iron Curtain, you created the Baltic Way, which was the chain of freedom, freedom and brotherhood, which united rather than divided and gave peace, hope and desire for freedom when there was oppression and tyranny. No one gave you freedom, you got it yourself. And here's one of the most important conclusions we can draw from history: freedom and democracy make the world a better place. Freedom and democracy are replacing hatred with peace. Freedom and democracy provide prosperity. Dear colleagues, 100 years ago, you were on the way to freedom, independence and democracy. Sweden also changed during this period. Of course, our situation was not comparable to that of the countries where the effects of the war were felt, but yet the various unrests introduced changes in our country as well. Sweden has had potential potential revolution or peaceful reforms. However, there was fear of the revolution in the air, and that did not happen. Sweden chose its own way. That was the path of democracy. It was a path of equality, both for men and women. It was a compromise. Often, when talking about historical events, we perceive historical processes as self-evident, however, the prosperity of democracy in Latvia and Sweden was not at any time self-evident. Democracy cannot be taken for granted today. In the past, women fought for the opportunity to express their opinion in the elections, while today, women are fighting for the opportunity to express their opinion in the public space, against hatred and threats. Moreover, both social media, traditional media and freedom of expression are at risk, and this is done by various forces who want to manipulate public space, the information contained in it and, therefore, our society. How can we promote open and true communication, both online and in life, and how can we support it without allowing us to use it for any unfavorable purpose? In my opinion, these are one of the most important democratic challenges. One of the most important aspects in this area is trust, which is very important in society and flourishing when the public sees that it is functioning successfully, when corruption is being combated and when citizens feel that it is valuable and knowledgeable. How can we achieve such a society? This is also a very important issue. The democratic values and the winnings that we have achieved over the course of 100 years, both in Latvia and Sweden, are the heritage that places responsibilities today. Values such as democracy, trust and the rule of law face various challenges in Sweden, Latvia and the European Union as a whole. Copyright regimes are in force, and even in the European Union there are Member States whose democratic institutions are weakened. Political extremism, which represents different ideologies, overshadows and threatens democratic societies. This means that democracy cannot be taken for granted. Each future generation must be convinced of these values. We cannot take gender equality for granted. Much more needs to be done to enable all to live a life of true gender equality. Our ability to reach ambitious compromises cannot be taken for granted either. Every debate with hatred rather than respect is increasingly difficult to find a compromise in the face of various challenges, and we must be able to meet these challenges together. Yes, there are problems and challenges for democracy in this troubled world, but evidence shows that authoritarianism is not only morally less valuable, but it also limits creativity and contributes to corruption, inefficiencies and delays. The Soviet Union was not able to conquer the hearts and minds of its people, and it was often unable to satisfy even the simplest material needs of its people. This empire was based on evil, but also on destruction, despair, and vanity. Democracy in all its manifestations - human rights, women's rights, minority and minority rights, in the rule of law - is the best system in which today's society can function. And so when you pushed the Soviet Union on your knees 30 years ago and when representatives of both Poland, East Germany and other Eastern European countries decided to follow you, you fought not only for yourself, but for us all. In the Baltic States, when the light of the ear came out after many years of darkness, it shined all over Europe. When tyranny and dictatorship were replaced by friendship, peace and democracy in our neighbours on the eastern shores of the Baltic Sea, this was a new beginning not only for you: you made our whole world and our whole future better, brighter and safer. I thank you from the depths of my heart for your constant belief in freedom, democracy and respect for the human being, for your fight, for your victims who were brought 30 years ago and since then. This fight for democracy and freedom took place only 30 years ago, now your state is supporting other countries that seek democracy, just as we do. I am pleased to say that we are now partner countries in the fight for democracy. The promotion of a culture of democracy, freedom, gender equality and compromises is a task to be carried out jointly over the next 100 years in Latvia, Sweden and the whole free world. Let us take on this ambitious task together. This obligation applies in particular to representatives of Parliament, but we cannot do it alone. You are 100 Members in the family, and in Sweden we are 349 Members. Together, these are 449 people, which is a significant number, but it is not enough. Even tens of thousands of locally elected politicians will not be able to do so. We elected need the support of millions of our elites, especially the support of the new generation, so that democracy can be maintained and developed. That's not going to be enough with 449. Tens of thousands will not be enough. Millions are needed! This is a difficult task, but it needs to be done together, and together we can do it. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U3	Thank you to Mr. Riksdag President, Mr. Andreas Norlene. We wish you a successful visit to Latvia! Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting. Any amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. The Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs is asking for the draft decision on the release of Daces Ķezberes from the post of member of the National Electronic Media Council to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Energy Act” to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Rancāns, Staķis, Klementjevs, Šnore and Bluke are asking to exclude from the agenda item 10 of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia”. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft legislation is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. Members Papaule, Pimenov, Lochmele-Lunova, Švecova and others are asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Education Law” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? So Evija Papule, a Member, has applied for a ‘for’.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U4	Good morning, Madam President. Dear colleagues, The aim of the proposal is, in short, to provide a short and rapid solution to the shortage of educators and to reduce the crisis in education immediately and urgently, making it easier for directors to find teachers in almost all subjects of education at almost all levels of education. I hope that this will be achieved primarily and as a matter of priority in mathematics and in Latvian. Knowing that as early as 31 August of this year (also referring to the figures from the press conference of the honourable minister) there were 500 vacancies, and also in September there were 200 vacancies at pre-school institutions... This is objective and therefore an objective solution - a fixed-term solution immediately and now. Of course, from 1 September 2020 a new programme will be launched for cooperation universities and the ‘Possible Mission’, an annual teacher training programme, but it will only be next year. This will, of course, provide a solution with 100 teachers in a year's time. The movement is likely to be positive and the solutions will gradually emerge. Of course, from 2021 onwards, the preparation of super-skillers will start in a four-year programme in cooperation with several educational universities. But school directors need help now and now. The proposal is therefore intended to allow people with higher education to work in schools, in parallel with a short career development programme in pedagogy, i.e. 36 hours. It is clear that by attracting young teachers or other teachers from other sectors, schools will help with their experience, support and possibly mentors. Indeed, it is not easy for me to offer relief for teachers. I also understand some scandal that... might affect prestige, might affect higher education institutions, possibly a monopoly... But this short course can also be offered under the conditions of this moment only those universities that are preparing... conduct pedagogy studies. Having received the desperate messages and messages of school directors, especially in the regions, I think this termed... By 2023... and the deadline can be discussed... if the training and further training programmes for new teachers, which I mentioned, are being successfully implemented, it is a solution here, now and now. As I said, then both other programmes will be successful. The teachers who have left the job this year and leave it in the near future may also return to schools. It goes without saying that low wages are not very motivated. There may be only a few references to this proposal too. However, I call on you to do things now and now and to do what we can. I hope that we will also receive proposals from our colleagues in the Saeima to resolve the school deficit crisis in the other way. Once again I say that it is not easy for me to offer these facilitations to the qualification requirements of teachers, but nevertheless I ask you to give an opportunity to those who will still risk and choose to work in school now, perhaps for a short period - a year or two... work now and solve problems right now. Because it's no longer the responsibility of directors, the fact that there are no teachers in their schools. I would also remind you that this year - already this year! - from 1 September the introduction of the new content of the training into pre-school and from next year it is also being gradually introduced into primary school. Interestingly, with what resources can schools implement in terms of people?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Please vote in favour. I really recommend voting in favour! Thank you. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U5	Ms. Anita Muižniece, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U6	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Good morning, colleagues! Yes, we understand and know that there are vacancies in schools, educational institutions. We have not denied it at any time. Although it has to be said that the total number of vacancies - now there are no more than 500 of the total number of educators - does not make up as much as in some other areas. However, it is absolutely unclear why, now, immediately, any exceptions and derogations from the rule that have worked should be made. I would remind you that a person with a higher education degree or a teacher who has just begun his studies can work as a teacher; there is an opportunity to go to school to work, starting with the first day at a university. ( From a political group, “How many vacancies are there? ” ) It should also be noted that already now the person with higher education has an opportunity to learn 72 hours of course after which he goes to school to work. I know that we also have one colleague who has successfully done so. We hope to see him at school once, too... Since he has completed such a 72 - hour course, today anyone with higher education can go to work at school. So it's not clear why we're going to reduce demands now - we're going to cut for 36 hours... Similarly, as Mrs Papules pointed out, this annual programme, which will focus on targeted selection, will start next year... people who are really motivated to work. ( The box “But how many vacancies is there? ”) ) What seems essential to me... as an educator and... Yes, thank you, Mrs Papule, you also do not deny that this is essential... It must be understood that pedagogy is not just a knowledge of one subject or a knowledge of a field, it is skills in methodology, psychology, bigactivism, interaction, evaluation and so on. And now it's all cut down and let it go in the field of education ( Dep. Mr Lochmele-Lunova: "It's better, then, that there's no hour at all?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It's not right. I call on the applicants to reflect - at the moment when the law of education is open... come to the Commission at that moment with reasoned concrete proposals, with an annotation, with an assessment of the impact, about the risks and then also discuss, not as it is now - last moment, in the morning, to present another surprise. I call for no support. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U7	Colleagues! We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 33, against - 46, refraining - 2. Draft legislation is not on the agenda of the sitting. On the agenda - reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Monitoring of the Food Chain” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Administration Structures” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the granting of leave. For unpaid leave granted to Ms Inese Lībins-Egner on 10 and 11 October of this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere to grant her unpaid leave on 10 and 11 October of this year. The Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For granting unpaid leave to member Janina Kursīte-Pakulė on 16-17 October this year. Please call me! We will be voting for the granting of unpaid leave to member Janina Kursīte-Pakulė on 16-17 October this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Vacation allowance granted. For granting unpaid leave to Member Nikolai Cabanov on 17 October this year. Please call me! We will be voting to give Member Nikolai Cabanov unpaid leave on 17 October this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Vacation allowance granted. Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expressions of trust or distrust. Draft decision – “On distrust for the Minister of Education and Science Ilgai Šuplinskai”. On behalf of the applicants - the name of Member Uldim Augulis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U8	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! Today, we invite colleagues not only to decide on the suitability of the Minister of Education and Science, Ilga Šuplinska, but also to show by works and decisions that the widely announced uncompromising rule of law is not just empty words. We are all convinced that the growth of the state and society is based on sound decisions, investment in education and science, thus ensuring the competitiveness of everyone in the labour market and the overall well-being of the country in the long term. Such commitment to Latvia's development is also reinforced in the medium-term highest national planning document - the Latvian National Development Plan 2014-2020. In recent years, a number of reforms have been launched in the field of education, the continuity of which is essential. Their progress depends to a large extent on the competence, good faith and respect for industry, including non-governmental organisations, of the minister responsible for the sector. The Minister of Education and Science, Ilga Šuplinska, has fully demonstrated his lack of competence and respect, as well as his unwillingness to take into account the views of the sector and society. Let me give you some examples. The issue of discrimination in the employment of pre-school educators has still not been resolved, which has been repeatedly pointed out by both the trade union of Latvian education and science workers and kindergarten workers and parents of children. At the same time, Minister Šuplinska, ignoring the importance of this issue, has not led its examination in the process of drafting the state budget for 2020, but has publicly expressed the need to assess the workload of pre-school education institutions compared to teachers of general education institutions. Such statements point to the fact that the Minister has no understanding of the work process and importance of pre-school institutions, and there is no desire to do everything in order for our small citizens to be able to receive maximum quality care in kindergartens and parents with a calm heart to return fully to work. There was also confusion about Mrs Šuplinska's proposal to reduce state aid for 24-hour funding for pupils in grades 1 to 4, imposing an additional financial burden on municipalities. The question is: is such an initiative in line with our country's desire and need to support families with children and improve the demographic situation? Warm lunches for young pupils were opposed to the rise in teachers’ salaries. We believe that the Minister's actions were openly cynical, in fact saying that teachers will only raise salaries if support for children is reduced. The Minister announced in a declaration that these children's holidays are not a concern of the Ministry, without trying to ask whether the municipalities and parents of children will be able to find the necessary funding in such a short time. Local governments have already reported that they will no longer be able to provide a holiday for students of the oldest classes. It should be recalled that a full diet is the basis for children's development, both physical and psychological. Increasing the salaries of educators is an indisputable necessity and a priority if we want quality and accessible education for our children. The Latvian Education and Science Workers' Union has repeatedly objected to the Minister's initiatives and invited to listen to the needs of the industry. The trade union promises to decide about the organisation of protest campaigns, because its misunderstanding and indignation was caused by the fact that the draft budget for 2020 does not provide for an increase in the teacher's minimum monthly salary from September of next year, as well as an increase in basic funding for science and higher education, although this is provided for by the existing law. Minister Šuplinska represents a party that declared an era of “uncompromising justice”. Does a clear disregard of the legislative framework comply with these principles of the new policy? However, the critical limit was reached when the Administrative District Court decided to suspend the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers by which Indriķis Muižnieks was not approved as rector of the University of Latvia. This questionable decision of the government by the court was led, after long discussions, by Minister Šuplinska, who now has to take full responsibility for the consequences. By interfering in the autonomy of the university, questioning its decisions, the Minister has created both a threat to the reputation of the largest university in Latvia and uncertainty in the management of the university. Mrs Šuplinsk announced that if the reinstated reinstater Muižnieks, she would leave the minister. However, Minister Šuplinska, instead of taking responsibility for his actions and statements, questions about the study of the court in the process of election of the rector of the University of Latvia, the competence of the administrative court and the adequacy of the legislative act. In time, Ashho said: “People continue to take responsibility for others. Sometimes a wife, another husband, including the family, circumstances, childhood, mother, father... sometimes society, history, destiny, God, but always someone else, not yourself. Whatever it takes, the technique is always the same. Indeed, a person becomes a person when he takes full responsibility. Whoever he is, he is responsible for this. This is the first expression of courage, the greatest courage.” We invite the ministers to be courageous and responsible and to put their portfolio before the confidence vote. If the Minister does not want to take political responsibility for his actions, we in the Saeima must seriously assess whether Mrs Šuplinsk has the necessary competences to carry out her duties. Therefore, we invite you to express your distrust to Minister of Education and Science Ilga Šuplinska. Thank you. ( The ZZS fraction is full.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U9	Let us start a debate. Name for Minister of Education and Science Ilga Šuplinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U10	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Members! Colleagues! Welcome! I will probably start by reminding you what priorities I have in this post. And given that the very responsible action of the Greens/Farmers Union left room for technical budget, I was forced to choose a very clear policy (Dep. A. Gobzem: “You’ve been here for a year?” )... and related to the quality, accessibility, change in the scientific governance model and also to the management and financial model of the sport sector. Let me immediately thank you for allowing me to draw my attention to the quality, because in fact... In a recent conversation with the previous Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis, I understood where one of the most important causes of education policy is and why quality is very often the same in international ratings as in all the tests set. There was a concrete example. ‘Run of order’ message. Mr Shadurski made this phrase: at the time when a colleague is calling on him to evaluate a certain scientific work, he most often refuses to do so. He was asked why? Well, because there are two options: either you have to say the truth, you have to say the objective, and it will not be pleasant to this colleague, and then there will be all the consequences, or... He chooses the other - he's quiet. This silence policy has, for example, been the experience of previous years with regard to the quality of education. That is probably why this is one of the arguments why the adoption and conduct of education policy is so difficult. I'll remind you of my vision. Because it was today that I also heard all the speeches of the respected Alda Gobzem, in which he pointed out that I certainly had no idea of a vision, and very quickly and drasticly listed the steps that should be taken in education. That's about the vision. My vision is quite simple – for a student, a student, also a young citizen at a pre-school institution, to go with joy, feel motivated, widowed, fulfilling his abilities and talents. Among other things, a very important player there is also a teacher. And I really care very much that the teacher's well-being goes up. But it cannot grow at the expense of others alone. At this point, other things also need to be handled in order to increase the awareness and reward of the educators. Among other things, one very important player in this regard is the municipality. If you say that municipalities are not spoken or informed, then I will inform you, Mr. Augulis, and maybe I will invite you - just today at 14.00, there is a regular meeting with municipalities. You can take part and ask your questions, those you are interested in education. Then, personally, I have met more than 50 municipalities for this moment, and I plan to meet with everyone completely to discuss issues related to the arrangement of the school network, with vacancies, Mrs Papules, as much as is necessary for a particular school. Let me say right away - more than 50 regions have now been surveyed, so an impressive number of schools as well. There has not been any Riga and Daugavpils. Indeed, there could be a rise in that number. But these 50 regions have 15 vacancies and a shortage of individual teachers for certain hours. Yes, there are quite a lot of them. That total number comes exactly from the fact that some things are missing... in physics - two hours, in music - two hours, in another subject - two hours. What you have mentioned, including the rest, is what we are talking about, namely, what the future burden will be on educators, whether there is indeed a crisis... and most also talk about the fact that, in five years' time, we could be in a crisis. Mrs Papules mentioned precisely: we have a year to start an unprecedented practice. I would not have practice not only in the sense that there will be a new methodology and completely different selection principles, but also in the sense that these 100 people who have been selected for this programme will have passed a psychological test. Among other things, this is one of the most critical points that is currently needed in education. Critical thinking, mission consciousness, ability to act in unstandard situations... because at that time we live; at such time we are dictated by the rules that we face. So that's the vision. I chose a format that may not be grateful, but yet. One day in a minister's life, that is, it's yesterday. I will tell you how my daily life is going, what the problems are and what the solutions are. 9.00 is the Employment Council meeting in which the Ministry of Economics, together with the Ministry of Welfare and the Ministry of Education and Science, is trying to address two conceptual issues. At this point, it is adult education and commercialisation of science. About adult education. I probably don't have to tell you again that at one nice moment... and that is the historical memory that we have very short (including the responsibility we have very short)... This is due to the green light given to a very large number of training centres, which are very well equipped to manage European Structural Funds money but, above all, do not bring quality to these specific courses. Secondly, there is no record of the extent to which these courses have been visited, visited and duplicated. Thirdly, neither does it produce the necessary result, which is linked to the demand for the labour market and the qualified workforce that we need. The first thing that is being dealt with at this meeting of the Employment Council is, therefore, the question of how we change existing legislation to provide that universities will be involved in future courses, thus strengthening their capacity, raising the quality of teachers, and thinking about what is really needed by entrepreneurs. The second issue is the commercialisation of science. For years... and, representing scientists in particular, I have faced one very clear problem - as if there is funding, as if there is government policy, it is due to the need to commercialise scientific advances, and yet something does not work. That basic point is, among other things, that technology... which has been established in the Ministry of Economics for quite a long time... basically they are limited to the activities involved in organising seminars, but they do not understand how... How many... the specific needs of the sector and those related to the service in question. A whole elemental thing... and also an elemental solution that is being searched... And at this point, we also think that it is one of the professions of the future that is needed. After the meeting of the Employment Council, the Cabinet of Ministers... a meeting of the award procedure. It is my real pleasure to announce that there is such excellence among those applying for this award... to which we go to education and society as a whole... like composer Maija Einfelde, like linguist Austris Graasis or how... All the respect for Albert Sproģis - a exiler, founder of the Minster School, a literature, a community of exiled society and bearer! And also, Valentine Eidka, who knows what it means to fight, and who knows what it means to prove... as well as results! That means we've got the brilliant... And thank you at the moment when the work has been done fairly and truly - it is always true and good and in place. Then there's Liszda's emergency sitting. The basic issues are two: the budget and pre-school education. When it comes to the budget... The Ministry of Education and Science made a request for 130 million, but... Let me say right away - I am also embarrassing at that point, because knowing what budgetary options are there, it is clear that this is the game that has been playing for years. We are trying not only to lay down laws, but also boundaries that actually come from our economy... stemming from budgetary opportunities... This is not feasible. In these budget negotiations, the education and science sector receives 30 million additional funding: 23 million are linked to the provision of an increase in teachers' pay schedule, 8 million are linked to an increase in funding for science. Incidentally - for science it is after a long period again one promise forward, because it is clearly defined that... In principle, science is confined to the European Structural Funds. Europe has clearly defined: if a country does not understand that science is a priority, it also does not understand the origins of its prosperity. This means that, in the next period of European Structural Funds, this funding, which is allocated to science, simply falls... The question of the budget is also the question of whether this timetable for raising teachers' salaries will be respected. And, of course, as it was from this point of view and as a minister for education and science since January this year... There is also an immediate start of a conversation on how it can be done. Let me say right away: there is no position in the general budget. Because needs across the whole spectrum of different sectors are so intense that only one field of priorities cannot be addressed. At the same time, both in the budget negotiations and in the Cabinet of Ministers... I hope that the Saeima will also continue to talk about the fact that, if the budget is implemented, the priorities remain two: education and health. I am not calling into question one of the sectors at any time, but I will say at once that I am not convinced by the health of 50 million. I very much hope that what is happening in the common system... I mean, the most important thing I mean here is the lower paid positions and transparency that should also appear in the health sector... that it will be arranged and these questions will no longer be asked... and that both of these areas will be organised. I wanted to mention another fact in the budget negotiations that shocked me myself, but... Perhaps, unlike the cheap news, it was not immediately presented with a convincing and loud voice. We were really dealing with medium-term marking... 500 million growth in the budget. And I was surprised that I did not see the words of three ministries in this 500 million increase. You can mention... Mr. Plant, you have read this request for my resignation... whose ministries were there, which were not on this list... for 500 million? ( Internouncing call.) Yeah. It was the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education and Science. And the Ministry of Education and Science was given such a very, very beautiful box - four million song festivals. It is also an understanding of what education and science are a priority for the previous government. Let's go to pre-school. The matter was also raised at the LISDA extraordinary sitting. Let me say at the outset that pre-school education is indeed one of the priorities of the government declaration, but when speaking to local governments and already thinking about how the whole range of work to be done will develop, and what budgetary opportunities are, it was immediately clear that 19 million, which are on the weekends... and what was the first topic of conversation with municipalities... If we do not give up on Saturdays, or if it is impossible to take over the salary of preschool teachers, it was 55 million. 19 million against 55 - probably it would not immediately be adequate to address this step either. And at that point, this discussion also started about how preschool teacher load is formed. I will say only one thing - both for a university employee, a teacher and a preschool teacher, the load comes from different jobs, and I have not said at any time that a kindergarten teacher is a caretaker. I have said that there are different types of work on this working day. The way you further teach it is your interpretation. What did we agree on with Liszda? And here, too, I call on the opposition, in particular, to participate. So on November 6, at 10.00, everyone is invited to a seminar where more than 300 pre-school teachers, heads of institutions and pre-school policy-makers will take part, not only to update but also to discuss different experiences in pre-school education and to think about what is the most effective way of pre-school education at this stage. Another note on how the content of the specific dialogue with the CISDA is also being addressed... mostly. Non-governmental organisations, to be honest, come up with concrete proposals and also find concrete solutions. If we are talking about cooperation with Liszda, then in the public space the basic setting is one - the rise in wages. If there are concrete proposals to make this even more effective, I will certainly listen to it, but I will say straight away that it is also one of the results of the negotiations with the municipalities. So when we talk to municipalities, we collect this information, which is related to the costs of each county per student. Let me say at the outset that even within the district, the funding allocated to schools is strictly different. LIZDA said in yesterday's conversation that the report on the use of funds published by the European Union in 2019 shows: in Latvia, education and training funding accounts for 5.8 percent of GDP, on average - 4.6 percent of GDP in the European Union. This means that the proportion we give to education is large enough. The question is, how effective is it? Let me say at the outset that of these 5.8 percent, 1.5 percent is higher education and science, which means, however, that once again the most basic principle is put in general education. What was also admitted by Liszda: yes, we have a great deal of subordinate, indirect education expenditure - such as maintenance costs, transport costs, the same mentioned holidays. At this point, then, the question is: are we always increasing the proportion of funding that is indirect in the education process, or are we all trying to focus together on the quality of education, the satisfaction of teachers and the increase in teachers' salaries? The meeting with private universities, the Latvian Association of Private Universities, is immediately followed by an extraordinary meeting of the LIZDA. This specific assumption was also made that university management was unclear. The Latvian Private University Association came with three very clear positions. First. We are pleased that discussions on the model of university governance have started. We can already share our experience now with how the board is able to deal with certain strategic and also financial points. The second point we should focus on in higher education is that exports have been made, and we are doing this through a very large number of programmes. And that's the third thing they said. I ask them to define their differences compared to state universities and why the student should choose this, a private university. They said quality. And then I wanted them to also describe why they are so confident that the quality of private education is still higher. This conversation is also open to you, and I think that soon we will see the concrete contribution. But they convinced me of some unique programmes that really do not exist in any of the national universities and that are now absolutely required in the international study area. Next, the Advisory Council on minority education, which is linked to one very important reform, namely strengthening the role of the state language in minority education. No matter how much surprise it would be, we agreed very quickly both on the issues that this Advisory Council can deal with and... Another insight I gave into my joint report on my visit to Brussels and my concrete participation in the educators' summit. At times, it seems to us that the problems that are in Latvia are acute and painful only for the Latvian education system. But I'll tell you right away that at the second summit, the keywords are the same. The first is the quality of education. Throughout Europe, this is the question of number one: how to act as effectively as possible... and which indicators... And again I could ask... And a surprise, I think, wouldn't be those who really follow the education process all the time. There are two keys: one is a digital practice, and the other is a teacher's personality. And nothing else at any time. These two aspects are the most important. Another problem that is very important is ageing. That is, how to get an ambitious young person into school. And another problem - STEM field, mathematics. It is the drop in these skills that is also observed throughout Europe. This means that the solutions that will also be sought at the Consultative Council on Minorities Schools relate mainly to these two issues. The first is how to support educators, how convincingly to create a system in which every educator can find his/her own... developing their individual skills. The second issue that will be discussed, among other things, in November (and can be taken part once again if you have such a possibility), is linked to interactive and modern learning tools. Most of all, it is in Latvian, which... the acute lack of minority schools. After the meeting of the Council of Minorities Schools, there is a very short meeting and it is linked to digital literacy and digital competence for teachers. When entering the Ministry and listening to how many and various European Structural Funds projects are being implemented, it immediately emerged... one thing became clear, which could still be done without involving additional budget resources, but restructuring the results of the European Structural Funds projects. It was the first to provide 21 thousand teachers currently playing in the education system... maybe by subtracting STEM teachers and adding pre-school educators, which would then amount to about 6 thousand... provide digital literacy development courses. Yesterday we discussed 23 modules for the basic level, the average level and the more advanced level, where it is already about the use of specific digital tool programmes in each subject. These 23 modules will be available in distance learning (each teacher will be able to do this according to his/her specific timetable), thinking about those subject teachers who may never have done so, and at the basic level also in this spectrum of direct activities. The other thing. We do not really lack a modern methodology to address this acute issue in order to encourage teachers who may not have been able to be on a pilot project, who may not have participated in courses for some reason. Together with the University of Latvia... The Dace Namsone-led organization is developing a set of video materials, which will be primarily aimed at the STEM field - most of all - mathematics, physics and chemistry. It is the math results and its skills that we will focus on. The last thing I want to emphasise is what was not on the agenda yesterday, but today's speech - yes. I understand that absolutely everyone has an opinion on education and absolutely everyone wants to be involved in improving the quality of education. I will be grateful for the really rational proposals. At a time when I hear on television that the first thing I should do is to introduce mandatory... more foreign languages, then let me remind you that there is already an opportunity to learn several foreign languages and they are really compulsory. The minority schools have the option of choosing it, with up to four languages in the Gymnasium. I will say the same about STEM subjects. No one has removed the obligation. At the same time - what is the requirement if we want to go to excellence... If we want those young people who are learning further - in the secondary education phase - to later shape our future and become those who really see and see solutions in science, then it is very important to have an in-depth learning of the field. Not the whole range of subjects, but directly in the area of STEM or civic education, or sport and health or language. That's what we're going to do. I would like to conclude by saying a huge amount of thanks to the President of Latvia for not only highlighting the role of education and science each time, but also calling on society to change. Indeed, the issue is not about coalition and opposition, the question is about a thinking and responsible society, or about one that is used to promising, not fulfilling, and all the time it is not possible to change the process until the "x" rules have been complied with, because the "y" level has not been respected. Yes, I forgot one very important topic - university management. In particular, there are four meetings in the seminar cycle. The first seminar has been. It was also a pleasure to see some Members of the Saeima, in particular representatives of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. What do I want to call? I want to invite you to the next meeting. So on 23 October, the next question is about the openness of universities. What does internationalisation mean? How do we understand that? What is the teacher and the student... Export capacity building and, I must say, promotion of Latvia... To what extent and responsiblely evaluate draft laws in the Saeima... Here I draw your attention to the fact that, at one point, it is also thought that when dealing with the labour force problem, it could be assumed that a student from abroad is not prevented from working for 40 hours a week. Then I will say right away: if we think about the quality of education and the fact that we need foreign students who really raise the prestige of our education, then please do not support this norm in any way. The theme of the third seminar on university management will be the most important, i.e. the President of Latvia has also agreed to participate in this seminar. On 27 November we will talk about university governance. I'll tell you right now that there is also beginning to develop a plan for amendments to the law or a new law. This is certainly the work path that we will take together. But it is clear that the typology of universities will be the starting point, that university types will have certain tasks and mission, there will be certain criteria and there will also be a question of what to choose, whether to choose advice or still to remain at the current governance model, if it seems possible to place a particular university in a certain position. Returning to the case of the University of Latvia, which has now, of course, proposed a faster approach to reviewing the governance model of the university. At no moment would this decision - not to approve Mr Muižnieks as a rector - be encouraged in the Cabinet if there were no irregularities in the electoral process. You mentioned the first sentence of the administrative court. I will focus only on two aspects of this particular judgment. First. There are currently three different understanding options. The Cabinet of Ministers, Mr Muižnieks and the Administrative Court have different understandings about what electoral process means. In the interpretation of the Cabinet of Ministers, the election process is related to the entry of Section 17 of the Law on Higher Education. In particular, from the moment the Senate approves the documents intended for the rector's election until the moment when the decision is submitted to the Ministry. Mr. Mujnieks's interpretation: it's just this decision... In the interpretation of the court, it is the election procedure itself at both sittings. What does the court admit in the first judgment? That the electoral process of 24 May has been unlegitimate. What else does the first sentence of the administrative court acknowledge? Also, Article 50 of the Law on Higher Education, which concerns the involvement of students in administrative bodies, is controversial. In this case, we draw attention to the fact that it is a certain sign... that when we transform the model of university management, we must be absolutely clear whether Article 17 should retain the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers at all. If we need to keep it, then - what do we mean by the electoral process? Only this particular appeal can put emphasis on what has already been interpreted differently by several legal professionals involved. And myself, the last one. I very much hope that this parliamentary term, and also the government, will be able to move the wheel so that the reforms that have begun will not remain on paper alone, but will be felt in life and in the complete change of attitude of every person towards his profession, against what he does, against the country in which he lives. Thank you. ( Ambush the coalition.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U11	Thank Minister Long Schuplinsk. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U12	Hello, colleagues! I assume you all have read a book about Carlson as a child or at least have seen a cartoon. ( Intercribing: “We saw the mulens! ” ) I don’t know how you did, but I had questions right away when I read this book. How big was it to be that Carlson's motor, that propeller so he could fly? And how did it happen that he could eat so much jam? Where's that jam? And how did it happen that by eating this jam, Carlson could fly again, getting heavier? If you also raised such questions when reading this book, I assume that your mind was also focused on looking deeper into things, trying to understand the nature of things, the connections, and not just blindly believing in the stories that you are told. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmeles-Lunov.) I remember that when I started studying physics, it was really interesting for me to figure out how big the propeller is to be, so that man could fly. I'm lucky. I was lucky to have had a great school. It was the 1st high school of Jēkabpils, now - Jēkabpils Gymnasium. I had great teachers, I had just the greatest physics teacher, an example of what a teacher should be. He taught us real interest in physics. We all studied physics. Of course, there were different kinds of success. The worst of us... And you know what the result was? The result is that we all go to university, all a hundred percent, our whole class. Most of us became specialised in physical objects. And you know, those who were the worst in physics among us were the best in their courses, they were seen there as the guru of physics! Why do I tell you all this... especially Mrs. Šuplinsk? By this I am trying to tell you how important this factor - the teacher - is. We are talking here beautifully about education, how important it is for our nation to be creative, educated, skilled; that it is really a question of our nation's existence, of survival - without exaggeration. We talk a lot and beautifully, but we do little. So that's the one thing I'd like to focus on and still call on the Ministry of Education and Science... This is about the teacher, the teacher's salary. The 9 million you have to find... Why is it important to find them? For you yourself understand - if we don't find this money, all the beautiful words about what we're going to be making a more creative, educated nation now - they won't work because there will be no teachers. We need teachers who burn their eyes. ( Internouncing call.) That's... When I talk about teachers, I have my physics teacher Tālvaldis Asariņš in front of me. Teachers who really learn to inspire people into this subject. Against the same physics. Look at you... So we are talking that our economy needs more so-called applied professions - the so-called STEM. We are ready to give money to universities, but what is the point of giving money to universities if then people who can join... with these items... they have not already studied physics, they are afraid of it. So it doesn't work. That's why it's so important if we look in the long term and really want to do it... We must now make sure - from primary school level - that people, children, have an interest in these objects - such as mathematics and physics. They can be taught in an interesting way. I know it from my own experience. I remember talking about the importance of education since the so - called time of success story. All of us here literally, in the form of a trance, told us what we're doing, how we do everything right, that everything we have to do is just to become fiscally beautiful. We will love foreign investors, we will come here, and we will have everything. Life will be guaranteed. Then I tried to explain that it was a fundamental mistake to create this fiscal beauty for our investment in human capital by turning funding into higher education and innovation. As a result, we have reached where we have reached - a real income trap, a low income trap, and we practically do not have the potential to get out of it. On what was promised and what was done, I would like to remind you of what Mr Kariņš said at his first meeting to all ministers. He said: “We will work together. Let us listen to each other and support each other in achieving the three main objectives of this government: to build the well-being of the people, to ensure justice and the rule of law, and to reduce inequalities in society in all its manifestations. We will do it." And--whey! - What's going on now? The budget is split... How is the budget divided? So there were promises. So the money to pay to the Prime Minister was found. The Prime Minister had a salary of EUR 4565, now EUR 4814 (plus EUR 249). Ministers had a salary of EUR 4334, now EUR 4570 (plus EUR 236). Parliamentary secretaries (including those extradited for prosecution) will be paid... was 3361, now there will be 3545 ( plus 184 euros). Of course, members of the Saeima have also been found in the budget to put money. So, plus EUR 162 will come. The parties also found 5 million, although nothing was written about it in the law. I understand that is probably the slogan: “The state must start with itself!” Well, then we're going to find money in the budget from the beginning for ourselves. But the budget didn't find any money for doctors, it didn't find money for pensioners and people with disabilities for the delivery of pensions... compensation for the supply. Only after we made a request here at the Saeima and asked to account for how it was then, then suddenly, they found their money. He didn't find any money for teachers too... That nine million. You know, all this, your budgeting, reminds me of an episode from the book about Carlson, like Carlson and Brother... to be more accurate, how Carlson shared Brother's sweets. Of course, he came back with his eternal story that everything is bad and that he needs more jam. He had eaten all the sweets, and two sweet nuts were left over: one great, one small. Carlson realized that he would not be there and that he had to start playing. To imagine that he is noble and that he is also thinking about Brother’s interests, that is, about the interests of the whole society, Carlson said: “Well, Brother, choose you, whose nut you will take – their big or their small. You can choose.” But he immediately followed the remark. He said, “But you remember, the one who chooses the first must take the smallest nut.” This is the way in which the government works with legislation: it changes the rules of the game immediately so that it can be profitable so that it remains the winner at all times. Brother answered: “Well, Carlson. Then you choose the first nut that you will take.” Karlson asked: “Brother, do you really want it? ” He said, “Yes.” And Carlson safely stretched his fat rock and took the biggest nut! My brother was abhorrent, of course. He said: “Well listen, Carlson, it’s not fair! You told me what the rules are.” By analogy, what are the laws that you should observe. Carlson said: “But what about you that is so abominable now? If you had a choice, would you have taken the smallest nut?’ Brother said: “Well?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, These are the rules. I would have taken the smallest nuts.” Carlson replied: “Well, Brother, what are you going through? You also got the smallest nut!” What do I want to tell teachers and doctors who are listening to it now? Draw conclusions from this account! If you do not have your own interests, then the rules will always be made so that you will remain with the ones who will be left over. You are now deciding how to think. I can tell you immediately what is happening in this country: unfortunately, democracy and the rule of law have been turned into a fiction. And you will only achieve something if the government is simply unable to act differently... and don't do it... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Urbanovich: “Right!” ) On the other hand, I would invite the Ministers for Education and Science and the JCPOA... You have come with such a slogan: if Shuplinsk is released, then there will be no JPN coalition! You know, if you really stand up for the values that you have spoken about, for the rule of law, for openness, for fairness, then you should not come with the slogan that if Šuplinskis let go, there will be no coalition in yours, but you should say: if the teachers do not have that money, there will be nine million, there will be no coalition in yours. That would be bold and honest! (Applause) It would also be wise, because you really would care in this way to make our nation smarter. And then you wouldn't be like Carlson. Now you've been acting like Carlson, you've come, you've got everything that's going to be, just getting to the jam jar, you've eaten it and you've gone. (Laughter) (ANALYTICAL PLANTS.) Therefore, colleagues, it is a pity that there is no prime minister here today, because I would advise him to turn around... I think I understand where there is a problem for them with their budget. The problem for them when planting this budget is that the Prime Minister sits with his back against the wall, on which it is written: “One law is one justice for all.” Tell him that this applies also to the government, and also to you. If really Latvia is a legal and democratic state, where everyone has to comply with the law. Thank you. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U13	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U14	Hello, colleagues! Today's reality is as follows: Latvia has a two-speed society. At first speed, those whose knowledge, language and communication skills allow them to receive a wage that ensures a decent life. At the second speed, there are those whose skills and skills are only sufficient for low-paid jobs. The representatives of this part of society live from wages to wages, in fact without any chance to break out of this vicious circle. If nothing changes in the future, the first group will decrease numerically and the second group will increase. And the gap between them will become an abyss. The reason for this inequality is just one: our education system. It is able to provide only a few of our societies with the knowledge they need to create and deliver innovative products and services on the international market. In fact, they are people with whom their parents were working during kindergarten and school. And that's the fault of the system. For all others, education is only a formality without a practical result and an actual contribution to the quality of life. I think it must be clear today that the Ministry of Education and Science is the most important ministry... government and state. Its priorities should not be competition between parties, position and opposition, and its work should be supported by all ministers and above all by the Prime Minister. Because it is the Ministry of Education and Science that has the key to the future of our country. The key to what it will be - either a modern and competitive European country, or a European country, but only poor and lagging behind. For this reason, I do not want to speak today about Ministers Šuplinska. Rather, I would like to invite you to think about what each of you would do if she... would be in her place. This will help you to understand how difficult her challenge is and how inappropriate it is. If I were instead of Šuplinsk, my priorities would be: First. I would make it clear that early childhood education is at the heart of all further stages of education. The kindergarten is not, as the Minister has said, the care of children. It is a highly qualified educator's job, which should be received as much as the educator receives at the best Latvian secondary school. It is the work of a kindergarten teacher that depends on whether our first-class students come to school with the same skills to read, write, and calculate whether they are able to sit down, listen, and concentrate straight. Whether they learn to learn is taught in a kindergarten, and many of the lessons from untrained or unacquired kindergartens are no longer learned later. Forgetting pre-school education is a catastrophic and fatal mistake that we will have to correct many generations ahead. Secondly. I would finally start nationalisation of primary and secondary schools, if I could say so. All school infrastructure must belong to the state, and all teachers must be on the national salary lists. Education is a question of state existence and security in number one. We are not discussing the fact that the border guard and the army are a function of the state, which in itself seems understandable. The same should be said about school education. This is a national priority and a national function. The most important function, which stands over party furrows and personal ambitions. It is unnecessary to discuss territorial reform in this regard. It does not matter whether there are 119 or 35 municipalities. That means... in any case... There will be 35 times more hosts for Latvian schools than they need to be high-quality and competitive. The owner must only be a state. Thirdly. I would make it clear that now... at least in the short term... On behalf of quality, it is necessary to combine individual schools, which would also mean reducing the number of non-popular teachers. The same as the priority needs throughout public administration at a time when we are becoming less. It would allow for a substantial wage supplement and at least a theoretical improvement in the quality of education. Fourth. I would make sure that more time is devoted to learning in English, German, French or Swedish. Learning foreign languages and compulsory science are prerequisites for good education and would be a more meaningful contribution to the competitiveness of our children and our country. Five. I would take concrete steps to reduce the number of universities in Latvia. We are one of Europe's leaders in terms of the number of higher education institutions per million citizens. This fact is directly linked to higher education, the quality of universities and their ability to compete at the Baltic and European level. Whatever we do not want to recognise, we will need a new model of university management, which will have to be in the context of reducing the number of universities. The argument for such a step is identical to the administrative need for territorial reform. Once we have dealt with today's request for depression, I would like us all to agree not to think about the heading and the opposition on education issues. I would like us to be able to combine ideas and views on behalf of the future of our country. If we can take this small step, it will be the best we can do for our children and their children. If we are not united on the issue of education, then our country has no future, then children in our country will not want to be born. And first of all, it needs only one small detail - another minister of education and science. ( A humiliating humiliation.) It's over. The Minister for Education and Science has not understood his main role. The Minister of Education and Science must be a teacher and student lawyer with one number (Accurate). , a person who does not protect the interests of a party or the stability of a coalition, but a person who understands that education is above party or coalition relations and that it is a question of the existence of the country, as well as the quality of life and the future of our children. Thank you. ( Some Members are applauding.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U15	Mr. Krauze, would you have six minutes or... Is it enough or not enough? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Krauze: “No.” ) So we will continue the debate after a break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! The name of the Member, Janis Wuzan, is for the announcement.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U16	Good morning, colleagues! Immediately, in the intermediate room, I invite the Baltic Affairs Sub Commission of the Foreign Affairs Commission together with the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly and the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference. A very short meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U17	Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U18	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Aldis Blumbergs, Anda Čakša, Vjačeslavs Dom... ( Internouncing call.) ... Čakša is, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Kaspars Ģirgens, Inese Ikstena, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Rihards Kols, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Ainars Latkovskis, Atis Lejiņš (Dep. A. Leijs: “No, there I am!” )... Yes, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Linda Ozola, Arthur Tom Pelles... Yes, Mārtiņš Staķis, Didzis Schmidt... Didzis Schmidt is, Jānis Tutins and Inese Voika (Interface: Yes!) )... Yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U19	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U20	Dear colleagues, We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - draft decision “On distrust for the Minister of Education and Science Ilgai Šuplinskai”. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U21	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Minister! I must say that today, there were interesting reports - including from the Minister - and there was a debate, but I would like to focus more on one aspect of distrust to the Minister for Education and Science. These are universities, especially the University of Latvia, and events related to the rector. It is in fact inconceivable that the Cabinet of Ministers and the Prime Minister can provide such a “gift” to our country's main university in a centenary. We celebrated national centenaries last year, we were all proud. This year, when the University of Latvia was as proud to celebrate its centenary, everything was destroyed. It's just thanks to the Minister. Here I would also like to say that there is a very clear Law on Higher Education and a very clear Constitution of the University of Latvia, which tells us how the rector is elected. It is very simple to say that the rector is elected by an open competition. The Law on Higher Education also says that “The Cabinet of Ministers may not approve a rector in office if he is elected in violation of the provisions of this Law and the Constitution of the University”. I do not see that either the Constitution of the University of Latvia or the Law on Higher Education are violated here. In fact, the Minister has not only turned to Indrick Muižnieks, who, by the way, is now acting alone as a natural person to judge... shall be judged by the Ministry of Education and Science, shall be judged by the Cabinet of Ministers... The Minister is likely to have attracted expensive cantores of lawyers, as is the case... I do not think that the Ministry can draw up such opinions. Of course, at this point, the Minister is not interested, she is spending public money on achieving her personal ambitions. She doesn't even listen to what she's talking about. More! The Minister has actually ignored the decision of tens and hundreds of employees and students of the University of Latvia who participated in the rector's elections. She thinks she's the main one, not the students. She has turned to the autonomy of all universities. This is, of course, in line with the policy of the New Conservative Party. If we look at what they want to push... They want to guide political supervisors in the ministries - there is nothing left to those university teachers and students themselves to decide, to put one of the JCPOA or another who will monitor whether they are moving in the right direction... The media must, of course, also be monitored by political parties and, more generally, how it looks like everything is bad! Yes, Minister, students are bad, university teachers are bad, trade unions... Yesterday, we listened and saw that everyone is thinking completely wrong and is bad. Of course, the media are also bad because they misstate. It begins to remind me of some ancient times. Today too, the moment when the New Conservative was listening and applauding... I think that's so much for young women... Some kind of congress style... In the 1980s. Just left you to get up, and then we'd really be back in those days. ( Ambush the opposition.) Here I must say that this is true, because I looked at what was written about Mrs. Šuplinska and what she was... By the way, Mrs. Šuplinska and I are practically peers, we have two months between birthdays... I can’t imagine that in the 1980 ’ s, I would have done something she did. In the 1980s, I went with my technicians to put candles on November 18... It was 1987. I was at the Freedom Monument. I was out of the yellow bus, when the militias began to catch those people. What did Mrs. Šuplinsk do? She was the secretary of the pre-organization of the Latvian Lenin Communist Youth Union, which also took and published the article! You know what that newspaper says. ( Internouncing call.) We fought for independence, and we risked, and I risked, too, that I could be caught and thrown out of the technique, and then I would not be at any university until independence was restored. But the honourable minister, who is now talking about education, is the main one who is actually overseeing the entire education system of Latvia, independent Latvia, modern Latvia, - she was convinced at that time kommunian! I don't have to go together at all. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Like you!” ) And... And the neighbor, who by the way, fought so actively against the Communists, against the Communists... Now he's kissing - since in Brezhniew's time - with the same Communists. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: ‘Is it what?’ Ambush of members of the opposition.) And now I want to quote, however, what was written in that newspaper and what Shuplinsk said... or, rather, what is written there, where Ilga Šuplinskis signed at the bottom. Maybe the party's pre-organization written to her, well, so to speak, in front of all... Communist parties, not UKP. What's she saying? ‘ We go back to the events of August 23 in Riga to the Freedom Monument. ... we, the 11th grade of Dagda Secondary School, will not be used by nationalist provocative headquarters...” Then it turns out that I was “nationalist” a member of a meeting? You were Communist then, Mrs. Šuplinsk? You still dreaming about the sunny distance? I'm reminding you once again that I really don't have these things together in my... in my conviction of independent and free Latvia. Like at that time... I remember - yes, I was 17 years old, and Mrs Šuplinska was 17 years old, too. It's not the teen age anymore. It's already the man who understands what he's doing. I went to the Freedom Monument, she wrote what she has written. This is totally unacceptable! How can a person today, now in 2019, be a minister for education and science? Maybe she'll start teaching communism ideas as well? I understand, of course, that the New Conservative Party... Well, that's where you're going to come young. Bordan was also an active Kommunian. You're really... Take and change the title to the New Communist Party, and then everything will be in line with your action today, including the work of the Minister.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U22	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U23	Madam President, Colleagues! Minister! Listening to the ministers comes to mind like this... Its anecdotes (probably you know) about the dancer and what hinders him from dancing. But if you were serious, there would be no real room for it. Because when you think about the work of the Minister of Education and Science and what the subject of education is on the list of the Minister's work, it really gets very sad. And rightly the question arises: is that our country's development policy? The education industry, which has been growing up for years, is getting under pressure. Now Latvian educators know that not only are beneficiaries of the lowest salary among OECD countries, but they are also publicly named the most indisciplined audience, who do not yet have any critical thinking and media literacy. Preschool educators understand that pay... that the funds for paying their wages will not be available in the state budget, and at the same time they also learn that their work is much simpler than at secondary and higher education levels. Therefore, provocatively, the loads will be reviewed. The parents of small children learn about the Minister's ambitious plans that children may only be taken care of and kept to a minimum in pre-school education. Local government residents learn that primary school children's holidays do not, in the Minister's opinion, need not be state-funded and funds should therefore be sought in local government wallets. And Latvian society learns that it (I quote): “... is at the lowest level of critical thinking.” In Latvia... even outside the community... follow the Minister’s entire resources of the Ministry of Education and Science and its subordinate institutions to reach his opinion on the question of the rector of the University of Latvia. These are the accents of Latvian education policy at present. I could have read it again. Perhaps one could also find a gem for the activities of a minister who is understandable to the public, but this is not really the case. This is about values. Working for the benefit of society in a respectful and meaningful way. Unfortunately, in every discussion announced by the Minister as an Irishman, to put it mildly, a misunderstanding of the needs of the industry, a one-sided sense of justice, contempt and disrespect for the Latvian education family, which, as it were said, has to show the right place. Mrs. Suplinsk! These are, after all, people who educate the next generation, who, while doing the teaching work, want to feel valuable and who want to believe in this country. How could you allow the remuneration of educators, Mrs Šuplinska, to be linked to the amount of the proceeds of crime that would be confiscated in Latvia... Is that so? Such a correlation is largely unethical and is totally unacceptable in a society with even minimal moral and value standards. Mrs Šuplinsk wishes to be demanding and responsible in this school year. I believe that we, the Saeima, too, must take responsibility. It cannot and must not continue! At least in the field of education, all must be based on intelligence, respect for the principles of a democratic and legal state, ethical and spiritual values. Is that not exactly the quality we want to see in society? Who do we want our family and school to strengthen our young generation? At least the new educational standards list these values. At a time when kindergartens and schools desperately try to reduce the number of vacancies and many teachers are in pre-retirement age, this attitude of the Minister of Education is clearly inadequate. It leads to the identification of a lack of competence, awareness or a dominant attitude of incomprehensible power and personal superiority over the interests of society. This attitude divides society, causes negation and also undermines confidence in the future of the country. I understand that the coalition Members, even if they agreed to part of what I said, are surrounded... Allow me to use the terminology that prevails at the moment... coalitions in political cartel networks and perhaps cannot vote by their professionalism or conscience. However, I wish that the demand for democracy serves not only as a yellow card for the opposition, but also for the sector and society. I recommend supporting the request. Thank you. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U24	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U25	Madam President, Dear Members, Ilga Šuplinska unfortunately does not belong to the strongest members of the Cabinet of Ministers. Otherwise, the Minister of Education and Science promises to raise salaries for teachers only if some mystical dirty money is found in banks. It seems to me that no Minister looked before Mrs Šuplinska's office, depending on a completely different authority. Today, the Minister mentioned a large part of Latvia's GDP, i.e. 5.8 percent devoted to education. However, I would like to mention that a country like East Timor has the highest figure of 14 percent. And that doesn't indicate anything. In Germany, education accounts for only 4.6 percent of GDP, while a German teacher receives around 4,000 euros per month. It seems to me that Mrs Šuplinsk is trying to compensate her administrative helplessness with arrogance for the people who depend on her actions. In September, we, and my colleagues from the Group SASKA, sent questions to the Ministry of Education and Science on the reform of national minority schools. In addition, we asked us what kind of schools with a bilingual programme were visiting Ilga Šuplinska directly. It turned out that she only visited Valmiera high school, which has already moved to Latvian... teaching language, and Polish school in Daugavpils, where such a process is successful. This reminds me of a historical example called Potjomkin's booths. The largest number of minority schools is located directly in the capital city of Riga, but the Minister has not looked into them. I guess she's scared. Another very fresh example of how Mrs Šuplinsk's standards of civil society are being ignored. As far as is known, a Consultative Council on minority education has been set up under the auspices of the Ministry of Education and Science. But only one representative of the Russian community was included in this institution, although many people, activists who have been interested in education issues for years, sent both electronic and paper applications to IZM in recent weeks, and also sent recommendations from public organizations. The answer to these letters was complete silence and vacuum. That's the minister's tactic. It is convenient for her to leave in this board the easily manipulated personalities - hyperlogies of school directors, who depend on budget grants, and counterfeit minority representatives, who do not actually represent large communities, but at best five percent of Latvian minorities. In the Latvian independent country of the 20th and 30th century, the Ministry of Education had an entire minority government, led by the respected professor Ivan Jupatov. Today, there are also many educational professionals from minority backgrounds, but unfortunately, Ilga Šuplinska does not suffer with real employees along with her background. I have a communication with Russian teachers, the parents of Russian children, and I think I am right to speak on their behalf today. I would like to call for collective support for Mrs Šuplinska's resignation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U26	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U27	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Minister! I will talk about one of the aspects that has led to the demission being requested: this is a question of children's weekends. At the beginning of a little history. Currently, about 80,000 children in grades 1-4 receive free holiday. That was the start of the initiative in 2008, when Mr Bastika won the opportunity to provide them in Class 1. The government of Valda Dombrovskis provided them in the first three classes for 2014. Valdis Dombrovskis, speaking about the budget, was pleased that the picture of Milda has moved from 500 lats notes to the 2-euro coin, he also stressed the importance of supporting demographic issues... and that it has been possible to provide such important support for families. Mr. Debtor and the National Union, in such a way as to say, in their worthy struggles against the then Minister of Finance, Reira, have been given the opportunity to finance 4th-class children's weekends. Indeed, they were essentially support measures to promote family demographics and health quality. This is perhaps the reason why the Minister for Education and Science declares that children's holidays - this is not an area that meets the objectives of the Ministry of Education and Science, the results to be achieved, and this is an uncharacteristic function. Not my pig, not my pub! The Minister for Education and Science seems to be trying to isolate himself from this topic, because he wants to redistribute resources to other areas. Then I have to say that it is worth learning from wise countries. Finland, for example, mentioned its greatest innovation and success last year, not Nokia - a miracle of that time - but the introduction of holidays in schools! Quality of their education (ZZS fraction rounds.) they are explained to a large extent by the fact that they have had the opportunity to provide the children with a holiday. In Latvia, too, it is probably the only meal with a warm meal for many children all day long. This is directly related, and is also reflected in a number of formal and informal studies that children learn better when they eat. Minister, you are not only obliged to think about such things, you have also been given its privilege of providing a holiday, and you have been privileged with funding. In 2015, when a decision was taken on the financing of Class 4 children's holiday, this was done by increasing the excise duty and giving it to the Ministry of Education and Science. What's going on now? We are reducing the excise duty on alcohol and removing the funding for the holidays, and the Minister is proud to announce that the local authorities can, after all, take money from the oldest classes that they finance from their money. I think it's arrogant. Yeah, we came to the money. Mr. Zarins referred here to Carlson and the propeller, asking a rhetorical question: how big should the propeller be for Carlson to fly? For me, in turn, whenever I listen to the question of money, I always think of an anecdotes that, after the 2008 and 2009 financial crises, either, as I say, distributed or joked about. There was such an anecdot at that time. One Greek and one Italian go to the restaurant and eat such a rich meal. When they get an invoice, they say: “No, the invoice will be paid there by the guy, the German sitting at the farthest table.” When the new government, and you, Minister, are talking about why you can't do something, you're always... It's about to be the second year... You want Cuchinski to pay off the bills. As if he were the German sitting at the table and waiting for the following opportunity - to pay your feasts or daily bills. Minister, you are currently running a government, or you go to a restaurant, and you have to think about taking a mask with you, and that money must also be earned... Unless you're going to run away after lunch. I know, Minister, that it is not pleasant to sit down on the ground. I've been there, too. It is really difficult, and the work of the Minister is saturated... I have to say that the day's presentation cannot surprise at least those colleagues who have spent some time in the government, but I hope that this demand for duty will also remind you that you are a minister for education and science and that it must be a man who is fighting for the sector and not for the sector. Who is trying to sort out the sector, not to bring it to the ground. You have to be the man who doesn't get up here in the troupe, and teaches everyone who doesn't understand... At least 100 people sitting here... or anything that doesn't know how to do it correctly. You must be the person who convinces other colleagues in the government that education and science are a priority, and that funding needs to be provided ( Dep. D. Schmits is applauding.) , rather than relying on it. I think this is an example that shows that you do not succeed, that you accept that teachers' salaries will depend on the capture of any money-launderers. Tell me, God, we got money-washers... And to catch someone else, then the teachers will have the money! Especially in a situation where Mr Kariņš is proud of having the largest budget in history, especially in a situation where this year's revenue is 500 million higher than in the previous year. And so far you have been given a mandate and time to deal with these means. ( Ambush the opposition.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U28	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U29	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima, happy to see you today! Colleagues! Latvia is a modern state, of course. The populism that prevails in many Member States of the European Union is also present in Latvia. We're not an exception. We saw what took place in the pre-election campaigns and how much was promised. But what concerns me is that this populism is moving to government work. What's going on? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “Jukas!” ) It is easy, without seeing these promises fulfilled, to do everything possible, to come up with all kinds of statements that are not definitely relevant to the work of the ministers concerned, and then only to pretend that they see something wrongd or misunderstood... As soon as they see a drop in ratings, they are followed by loud messages. Someone wants to fire something that can't be fired at all. Someone starts talking about real estate tax, even though he knows little about what he's talking about at all. And in such a coalition you, colleagues, all of you are working right now! Are you satisfied that you are in such a coalition? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) I think that the whole coalition has a reason for this chaos. The reason for this chaos is certainly the New Conservative Party. At the moment, we see ministers who are sitting on the bench of the depression primarily because of this populism. We see ministers who, only by opening their mouth, can offend all preschool educators. We see ministers who, at the outset, can offend all pre-retirement educators. We see ministers who can also work. And when she starts working, we see how Latvia's largest university is not trying to become... instead of trying to raise its competitiveness, but quitting at least five years back in history, creating chaos in higher education. In my opinion, this is unacceptable. We see a consistent move by the previous governments on the issue of holiday. Solutions have always been put in place to improve this situation by making new and new classes present. Everyone is aware of this problem, but here it is no. The new Conservative figure out: "Everyone has improved their lives. Why do you want that? Let us give up this principle!’ In my opinion, this is unacceptable. Colleagues! We see progress in administrative territorial reform. We see how big a brother is this administrative territorial reform, but... Unfortunately, I see that the Minister of Education and Science has not yet noticed that there is an administrative territorial reform. The involvement of the Minister of Education and Science in this process is quite small, if not to say more. In my opinion, this request for a mission is not addressed to the Minister, but... This is a request from the coalition itself and the government. Colleagues! You ask yourself a question, are you satisfied working in such a model? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “They are satisfied!” ) Colleagues! It's not a question of ministers Šuplinska. I think Minister Šuplinska could come great here, to the Saeima, to do, to teach. There are colleagues here who will advise her. There are a lot of different positions here if you want to take up a post... In the Bureau, under the leadership of the parliamentary committees, where you could learn, before you go, start to run the sector, by staggering the sector every day, when teachers, educators, just have to watch every day, which will come out of the Minister's mouth, with which the Minister will still be surprised to come with his other idea, to talk about one or the other subject. Colleagues, again! This is not a question of the Šuplinsk depression. This question is about the model of cooperation chosen by the coalition. I call on you to support this depression.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U30	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U31	Dear colleagues, Dear Minister, For those who have not read, for those who may not know about the Canary Islands and the Pandora, I can tell you about such an island in Elisa. At the beginning of the 20th century, they were the biggest entry gate to America. Thousands of people from various countries once wanted to get to America to change their lives. We can discuss today whether the mechanism for selecting immigrants was humane and reasonable enough, but one of the exhibitors of the Elise Island Museum shows that immigrants were put in front of wooden figures and had to put them in the appropriate forms, as they are now playing with development toys. It was necessary to understand whether this person would be a burden on society, a new society, and really able to give the state something. Maybe it's cruel, but now it's history. I do not offer, colleagues, to introduce such a test for people who want to manage ministries. It would really be cruel. But what I would like to stress is that a person who feels that he is strong enough to manage the education and science sector, but it would be desirable to know basic things at least at a general level. So that teachers themselves do not have to roar in front of them. The person responsible for the education of all Latvian children cannot now know which country belongs to the Canary Islands, and the person who uses the symbol “Pandora Bear” cannot know what these words mean. That's, I think it's a shame. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.) Fear over the industry, about what will happen if the education process of children is monitored by a person who obviously lacks emotional intelligence. How could we take a different look at the Minister's desperate fight against the sector? I would also like to emphasise, along with my colleague Gobzem, that education really needs to be kept away from politics. But Mrs Šuplinsk has not understood this, and her speech has also shown this today. Mrs Šuplinsk, there should be no force in your industry where there are teachers on one side and you on the other side. You're really not a teacher's lawyer. You are such a bad mother who is stunting teachers about your criticism of social networks and is declaring new and unfulfilled tasks in raising teachers' salaries. Why have we not heard of such ultimatums, such as Šuplinsk, in the government during these months? We've seen desperate educators at the Saeima. Hopefully, we will not have to see the same again in terms of the budget. But we have not heard that Mrs Šuplinska would really ask Mr Kariņš to arrange for the question of teachers' remuneration. On the contrary. As colleagues have already said, questions that are not related to teachers' salaries are kept in the table. Next year it might be a question, I don't know, a fight against rude fires or a fight against high-speed offenders, with VAT carouseles... Well, you can figure out a lot of problems that might depend on teachers' salaries. In principle... You said today that teachers, educators' well-being should not be at the expense of any other sector or person. But at the same time, as I understand, you did not really oppose the fact that party health will be at the expense of someone else next year - at the expense of the same teacher's salary, at the expense of the same taxpayer. You don't mind that. Your priority is not teachers, it is not children - we see this. Your priority is the cat and confrontation. And this is demonstrated by both parents and educators, who are concerned, desperate and waiting for the next worrying statement from the Minister. I call on us today to support the draft decision requesting the resignation of the Minister. I would also like to add... Such as an invitation to the Minister: close the Pandora box, please. Don't look there for teachers' salaries! It's not there. Because of that Pandora's charge, so many pressures have already come out, that we will have to fight them for many years. Thank you. ( A Plenty of the Group and other members of the opposition.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U32	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U33	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! I will be able to add to what a number of previous speakers have said. I'll start with Pandora's box. I won't agree here with Julia Stepanenko that he should get him. If I remember right from school, when we were taught about Greek mythology, the beautiful virgin Pandora, driven by curiosity, opened up the charge and released all the sorrows, sorrows, diseases and all the negative, but managed to cut it out, without losing the hope that was at the bottom of the box. So its hope is still being charged by Pandora, not by the world and here with us, in the hall. As the Minister said that she does not have this box, it would be good to find it and run it out of hope - hope that this high house and our nation as a whole could once agree on the most important priority for the country if we want not only to be wise and to reach the top, but to continue to stand as a nation for future generations... That is, we want education, wise people who will be able to deal with the complex challenges ahead of us and the world. The second subject that I will keep up with. Finland was mentioned. First of all, I would like to thank Vjačeslav Dombrovskis, Arvil Asheraden and all the other Members who were... and definitely the Ambassador of Latvia to Finland to Mrs. Našniece... who was on the visit... a two-day visit to Finland. I'd call it a visit to the future. It was a visit to the future. We met with the Future Commission of the Finnish Parliament, which plans to see Finland and the world in 30 years' time, the University of Aalto, the City of Sitra, the Ministry of Education and Science and many more... Business Finland... Yeah... And we were at school. As if it's all known, it's nothing new. It can be read on the Internet how the Finns go and where they are now in the world. But what was interesting - Finns are not very pleased about how they are now and see great problems in the future, because they understand that their education system is not yet ready for those children who are starting to go to kindergarten today... understand that they will learn once again in their lives at least five times - in the new professions... understand that they are not yet ready for it. But what do I mean? If we want to go ahead, we don't need to create a new bike every time. This “bicycle” is right here in Finland - in a comparable country with us even in the population, in a comparable length of national independence. Just have to pick it up and drive. Some things I wanted to say... only a few of these things that we should do a little differently than we do today. Maybe I'll start from the other end, from the universities. Hearing at the University of Aalto and everywhere else... on cooperation between government, state and universities, and between universities. The University of Alto does not try to copy the University of Helsinki, they do what they learn best and cooperate with them. When we heard it all... When opening our mobile phones, what did we see in Latvia? The celebration of the centenary of the University of Latvia began in the morning with one rector and ended in the evening with another. Not because the previous great rector would hand his portfolio over to an even more excellent rector in the future, and the aula would stand and applaud, no, because the court annulled the unlawful decision of the government in Latvia. It's short as we look at universities today. We are talking about quality education, and I think that the strange thing is that society is wide-ranging... There's a consensus in the nation... there is a consensus that a teacher is the cornerstone of quality education. Only in this house do we have no consensus. We're... LIZDA is fighting with the government and the Ministry for meeting the previously agreed wage schedule for raising wages. There will still be this phase in September next year. What are we talking about? We are talking that the teachers' salary will reach 790 euros, that those who have already seen a bike from the Finnishs... Estonians have no salary below 2500... 1250, I'm sorry! And they objectively ask the question: “Something still teaches you in schools?” Even today, we did not put the Papule-led question on the agenda for today's parliamentary sitting on how to make an urgent effort to address this issue. We are not even going to discuss it here! Finally. It's as if it's smaller... But here I will have to add Dana Reizniece-Ozola for catering in schools... and again Finland. Finland introduced free catering in all age groups immediately after the Second World War. If I don't pray, even after the Winter War. That was the primary aim of the fact that there was actually a famine... That all Finnish children, regardless of where their parents are, should be fed. That was the first step. The second step. They realized there was another good thing. This is a fairly large order for Finnish farmers and food producers. All these foods have been in Finnish for more than sixty years. But another thing they understood more than ten years ago is that healthy catering is a huge cornerstone for human brain development, the ability to absorb information, to keep it. They completely moved to ecological, healthy food without additives, without salt, without anything else. That was also what Members could do - lunch without salt. Another thing they understood is economic... business case outside aid to your farmers and entrepreneurs is that the whole world food industry is fighting today for childhood taste. What a person has eaten in early childhood is what he will continue to eat and use all his life, buy his children and promote his economy. It's another thing in this sort of little story about weekends for all the students. What are we doing? We take away, not perfect what we really do step by step... also Minister of Agriculture Jānis Dūklavs... We made a promise to go ahead. We are ruining it again. Yes, the hope of this is really very much needed in this hall as well. The hope that we will be able to once unite and put one priority on the nation, namely educated people, as the Finns do. In the future commission of the Finnish Parliament or, I do not remember exactly where it was... they said they had looked at what they had planned for today's Finland and the world 30 years earlier and understood that even their most difficult dreams had long been reached and exceeded. So the conclusion is that when you plan your life for 30 years ahead, one thing is certain is that you can't plan everything out, that you can't predict everything. Clearly, there will be technological advances. There is no doubt about this. Clearly, there will be robotisation. There is no doubt about this. What did they understand? What is their main objective in education today? That in 30 years, every bag... Each second bag will have a Master's degree. For this will mean that they will be educated and smart people, and only educated and smart people will be able to cope with the challenges that will be common to Finland and the world in 30 years' time. Finally, at the end of my speech, I would like to continue with what Ivars Zarins said. He named certain teachers in his life. I would also like to name myself and tell them a huge thank you: Mr Jirgena for mathematics, Ms Biruta Šķele for physics, Aija Kļavina and Aivars Stranga for history and Mr Kiel for philosophy and mathematical logic. And finally, my parents, who took me to them. Thank you. ( Ploughs of opposition.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U34	The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U35	Dear colleagues, Dissatisfaction with the behaviour and activities of the Minister of Education and Science of Long Suplinsk among the employees of the sector is growing rapidly. Therefore, the Minister's explanations are in fact awaited not only in the parliament and the Latvian Education and Science Workers' Union, but also in the teacher's tsunami in general and in the wider society. The reasons for disbelief and distrust. It is known that one of the problems is the lack of teachers. And it is also known how the problem is solved in schools: educators increase their workload. But this is not the right solution, because in time it can have a negative impact on both the quality of the work and the well-being of the educators. I believe that the shortage of educators is a national problem and, in the long term, the consequences of public education policy. If the Minister is not in the course, I would like to inform the Minister that not only pay is important for teachers; other components - public attitude, balance between the rights of educators and children, public rhetoric of the Minister, professional and methodological support, as well as other criteria and instruments are always important for educators. It is not that educators are an absolutely conservative layer of society. People are open to change, but expect greater support mechanisms from the Ministry of Education and Science. Because insufficient support, as is currently the case, has a significant impact on the quality of education. If the Minister believes that the lack of sufficient entry into schools for the new generation of educators is a problem - where is the offer for support mechanisms? I know nothing about it, for example. And I think if the Minister of Education and Science continues to only apply mud to the teacher's family, as is currently the case, then perhaps the young educators will choose even less to work in this profession. Rather, we need to think about how and how to support educators, for example, because burning syndrome is a real problem at school. Nothing has been heard about how to combat this phenomenon. In the case of pre-school teachers, too, it should not be necessary to distinguish between education and care, but rather to think about how to review the burden of support mechanisms, as pre-school teachers are the first to start content based on competences. In recent years, including this year, painful decisions have been made to close down and reorganise schools, but they do not fully solve the shortage of teachers or give extra money to implement the pay schedule. Often, when closing the school, the teacher is offered a job in another school, but there is less load, pay also, more time on the way, and when considering everything, a person often chooses to realize himself in another field. After a certain period of doubt from September this year, however, teachers received a wage supplement from EUR 710 to EUR 750 per rate. But there are still concerns about the schedule of teacher wage growth as of September 2020. The solution is, and this option is absolutely clear. The regulations in force, the Education Law and regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers on the schedule for raising teachers' pay should simply be complied with. The budget for 2020 provides for an increase of EUR 23 million in wages to EUR 750, but no money is provided for the next step - an increase of EUR 790 from 1 September of the following year, which requires EUR 9.2 million. There is no funding - 8.5 million - for university teachers from January onwards. When drafting the budget, money should be directed first to enforce existing legislation and only then to come with new initiatives in a correct and correct manner. This is what this solution looks like. Very simple, right, colleagues! At the same time, as always lately, the Ministry of Finance indicates that in order to get money for the salaries of educators, further arrange the school network. As a result, municipalities are forced to make painful decisions about the optimisation of the school network and to continue to close schools. However, there is no confidence in raising teachers' salaries, because teachers - this is what happens in our country - always impose some additional conditions, some additional requirements. I think it's not fair and it's not smart... Not at all. Similarly, when submitting the annual draft state budget to the Saeima, the Cabinet of Ministers should provide for annual increase in funding, not less than 0,25 per cent of gross domestic product, for higher education and not less than 0,15 per cent of gross domestic product for scientific activities. I don't know if this is the case. In any case, we want to expect a high-quality budget here in Parliament. Minister! In my view, the result of your activities in the education system has been a conversation with the educators, in exchange for each other's accusations... lack of critical thinking. So I call on you to change your rhetoric by communicating with the educators, because your rhetoric is aggressive and the prestige of the teaching profession is devastating. Please don't bother your educators. I call on you to vote in favour of distrust to the Minister for Education and Science, but if the majority of the Saeima does not vote in favour, then I have another recommendation for you, Mrs Šuplinsk. Take care of people in your fields, teachers, and not fight against them. Take care of people in this area, because education workers need to be supported and not combated. Thank you for your attention. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U36	Name to Member Aivars Gaidan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U37	Madam President, Minister! Dear colleagues, Today, everything from this platform is about something: Zarins talks about carouseles, about carlsons (Dep. I. Zariņš’ intermediate call.) Mrs. Reizniece-Ozola, that the only meal would be a three-year-old once a day. But we have to look at the complexes. Well, as long as I listened to it for a while, we always try to get some things out of the overall view. The overall, big picture we have is the state budget, and it is clear that we will not have enough resources for everything - at the way in which it is being managed, as it is now, what it has been for these previous years. ( The drug is noise. Sub-words: Ooo! ) Of course, the examples are the following:... of course, they already know their own farming style, I (Interface: “Low down!” ) will not be repeated; I am more fascinated by the hypocrisy of the Union of Greens/Farmers. They're coming and aphishing... talk about the lack of resources for teachers' salaries. It's not serious. I completely agree that this resource will not be enough. But why not? For this reason: we have taken the right course - less resources have now been allocated to municipalities in this state budget. If you look at, for example, Jelgava City's budget, which is 80 million, then... For example, the city’s head Andris is able to move by car Volvo S90, a brand new one with a market value of about 100,000 euros. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “What has to do with education... ?” ) And to advertise himself, he planted trees - oaks... It is consumed annually in 400 thousand euros. If we look at one municipality's budget - 500 thousand euros are actually wasted. That's a big money. And here's the answer to Mrs. Reizniece-Ozola: that your party member, for example, could share and channel these resources... Local governments could, let us say, channel them to children's weekends up to grade 9. Because if we look at foreign experiences, we can see that in Denmark, let's say, in the same Netherlands, the heads of cities are moving by bikes and small... Well, there are, of course, other sizes, but in municipalities of the same size as Jelgava... mayors don't drive 100,000 cars there. And to promote yourself... out of the batch included spending... spends another 400 thousand... So, I think, the Union of Greens and Farmers, start with yourself! Tell me sometime how you're doing! This management style is in most municipalities where you are managers. ( Internouncing call.) Thank you. ( Ambush the coalition.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U38	Name for Minister of Education and Science Ilga Šuplinska for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U39	Thank you to all those who took part in the debate. Let me immediately regret that it has not been possible to complement a truly useful set of ideas that could help to improve education policy. And some remarks. Mr. Zarins! Unfortunately, I don't like a jam. Therefore, its remark on the removal of their jars will apply to someone else. Mr. Crause! I can't see you right away, but... “Everything is bad” - such a concept is not mine either. And I'm very sorry that you, as a member of the Saeima (Intercom.) You read enough. com and it's your only media literacy sign. ( Internouncing call.) Well, I'm sorry! ( Internouncing call.) The third thing I definitely want to ask. Mr Agešina, one of the members of your party, Mrs Papules, is very well informed about how the education of young educators will take place. If you cannot come to the Ministry of Education and Science, then I think Mrs Papules will not deny you this advice. But, generally speaking, I only want to stress one thing. And this is due to the fact that, despite this rhetoric that has been expressed today, I will really stand for children, young people and students. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “When? When?’ ) And already in the budget this time (interim.) ... and this time not many but half a million have already been included in the budget, which is specifically intended to strengthen youth policy. And I very much hope that what did not happen within a certain period of time, and that is a change of thinking... it will be accompanied by the arrival of young people and a more active participation both in civic activities, to be said, as well as in quality evaluation of the entire educational process. Thank you. ( Ambush the coalition.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U40	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U41	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very respectable. Minister! Colleagues! A great deal has been said today. And I would probably not have applied for a debate if I had not felt that a large part of the speakers had not understood what this motion for distrust is about. Many technical reasons were mentioned for which the Minister of Education and Science could have done differently. She tried to explain her point of view, but probably this moment should also talk about the philosophy of management. What do I mean? Any manager... As a leader, he must be aware that he is assuming the role of being between the lick and the hammer. In this case, the sector of lacto - education, science, culture, sport, innovation and so on - is very wide, but at the same time it is very hard. This prison is characterised by both trade union activities and the fact that there has been a regular lack of funding for this sector despite the entries in the laws that have been discussed today. It is only a surprise that the Minister of Education and Science has undertaken to lead the sector. Hammer... Well, the hammer in this case is the government and the head of the government. The higher we are in this hierarchy of management, because... usually it is that its lactate becomes tougher and bigger and the hammer, whatever it is, it is... In this case, we are faced with a very specific situation, because the Minister's party, the party she represents, has turned those things in such a way that the Minister for Education and Science is now a practical element of the government's existence or fall. ( Internouncing call.) That depression, I think, is about two things. One thing is related to the lats... Lac, I'm sorry. Manage this very wide-ranging sector, which has a vision... vision... the Minister told me about the management, and... I think there's a lot of things she told us we can join... In order to implement this vision, there must be a deep empathy to the sector, and I would like to say that the key word is "empathy", and this motion for distrust is about the lack of empathy towards the sector. The other thing about which distrust is expressed. For the fact that between... compared to... Comparing the efforts of the Minister of Education and Science and I too... not here, explaining to Members this or any other question, but sitting in the Cabinet of Ministers, fighting for our industry, we have no confidence - in this case, I am thinking of the Union of Greens/Farmers and its political group - that every possible effort has been made by the Minister and the Ministry to make the money both for teachers' salaries and for many other things needed in this sector. But nothing's over. I am almost sure that this vote, which will soon be in place, will allow the Minister to continue to lead the sector. But tomorrow, if I am properly informed, there is the Cabinet of Ministers meeting where the budget will be decided. And there's an alternative here: to finance, to finance, parties or to finance education, science, sport. And tomorrow the Minister will have to vote in the Cabinet meeting on the budget, which will either have more funding for her industry or more funding for the parties. It will also show a lot to the people of Latvia. And I want to finish with the quote: “The talk is long, the work is short; The Lytens three of the labour power.” Thank you. ( The ZZS fraction is full.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U42	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U43	Madam President, Colleagues! Unfortunately, every minister speaks like an Irishman... to put it mildly, as an anxe from the bag nozzle in the field, the Minister's misunderstanding of the needs of the industry, the one-sided sense of justice, contempt and disrespect for all, including himself. To say that, at any cost, you have to show the right place for everyone and find perhaps another for yourself. Listen to what colleagues say! We are talking both seriously and about jokes. And they are also, to a certain extent, a message worth the lesson. Personally, you too. And if you are allowed to give advice, this time perhaps you would have been more valuable in your answers by listening and listening. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U44	Name to Member Armand Kraus for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U45	Minister! Colleagues! See, I think... How do I know what I am reading? I know what and where Mrs Šuplinska wrote at the time because it can be found. But it's not just enough. com. See, it's also on Jauns.lv! So many media write about it. But I think you could get up here and tell the Saeima and the whole people of Latvia (because of the broadcast of this sitting) that you were wrong at that time and that you regret what you wrote there, not... by the way, also Jauns.lv writes - you simply avoid reply. You can honestly say: “It was a mistake, a mistake of my youth days, I was forced by the Communist Party. Now I don’t think so anymore and I apologize to the whole Latvian people for what I said back then.” And for the fact that you named those who fought at the Freedom Monument and elsewhere about the nationalists, come here and apologize to the Latvian people! ( The ZZS fraction is full.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U46	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U47	Mrs. Suplinsk! The harsh truth of life is that you don’t like teachers, students, society, or journalists. J. Strikķe: “You all like it!” ), but you like your party because you support the construction of a prison. (Applause) I do not know, Mrs Šuplinska, have you read Victor Igo (Minister for Education and Science, Mr Šuplinska: “Who is this?” ), but if you had, then... Victor Igo once said: “The man who opens the school closes the prison.” Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U48	The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U49	I will not turn to the UKP and the Minister, but to the other coalition parties. If you think you can point out the UKP and their ministers: “They were those incompetent, they were the ones who forced us to take an unlawful decision about the rector and so on!” - and that you will be able, as you say, to put them in place and go on your own dry feet, it won't work. In my opinion, the process is different at the moment, the opposite - you are at your seat. I'm not gonna tell you where to, but... absolutely at the point. It is a collective responsibility for the situation that all these conflicts now have with education... higher education... I do not know if there is any area at an educational stage where there is currently no conflict between the Ministry and who is working in this area. But that's secondary. Primarily. I'm sorry that... Once again, with Finland... I'm sorry, somehow it happened that none of the KNP was on this visit. But those who were... And I look at you, Arvil, first and foremost, and the Sustainable Development Commission... where we started this debate yesterday. I hope we can... understand that the quality of education must be the first priority in the country if we want to exist at all. We could start building a national consensus on this priority through the Commission for Sustainable Development - and finally in this Chamber too. And not only in words, but also in works, also looking at the budget in the coming and coming years. It would be very, very important, to be able all of us to find a common denominator in at least one thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U50	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U51	Dear colleagues, Just two short things I want to say. One. In my opinion, it is cynical that you generally mention the discussion of higher education here. According to the Ministry of Education and Science, in 2013 those who studied abroad, Latvian students had 7 percent and wanted to study abroad 12 percent. In 2017, 9 percent of Latvian students studied abroad, but already 25 percent of Latvian students wanted to study. Interesting, why is that? ( Milestones.) Is that quality or something else? I think it is precisely about quality in this regard that we should talk about. And this trend continues to rise. More and more students of Latvia are travelling and studying abroad, not because they like living there, but because there are many, much worse quality here. But the Minister... the Minister courageously supports these changes in higher education. With all due respect to the Minister, she has the courage to raise this issue, despite all the workers from all the parties who have met in this university... The Minister has the courage to stand up to this system and really change it. ( Milestones.) So, please appreciate, respect him for it! Second point. Usually, when ministers speak... and demands such things as, for example, the Ministerial Demission... Well, then you, especially ZZS, DON'T... You can add yourself to SAVE or to ZZS, as you want, but there should be some respect... give the Minister the last word to answer your stamps. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Select, Znotin, Order rollers!” ) But you didn’t give it! So please, some self-esteem should be... Ministers against whom you have made this request. Thank you. ( Ambush the coalition.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U52	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U53	As I said, I am very lucky in my life with the school in which I had the opportunity to acquire knowledge and with the teachers. I mentioned my physics teacher. He taught me to look at things in principles, through certain expressions... external, superficial... See the principle at the rear. He learned to see the system, to see the situation systemically. So when I came here and told me about Carlson, I thought that those who listened (and those who came here and in full seriousness thought they were talking about Carlson) would understand that this was not about Carlson. ( Ambush the opposition.) Just... And it wasn't about jam, either, because... Colleagues, I see that one big problem is that perhaps something has happened to you. It was obvious to me that we no longer believe in fairy tales that we can see through these tales the truth that this tale has brought. But I think a lot of you still live in such a fairy tale. It is believed that you can tell a fairy tale and everyone will believe you and live after it. And then in the end you're where you are. That is why we need to talk about all these things today. Colleagues, draw very serious conclusions on what is happening to education! Can you also draw serious conclusions from this debate? There were a lot of useful things here. So that we don't have to discuss this anymore. Otherwise... You remember what you have promised your constituents. If they were just fairy tales that can tell you what they don't have to do, it's one thing, but if you want to actually do something, then life must start to change quickly... what you're doing. Otherwise, you will not be helped by the funding of the party, nor by everything else; you will simply leave in the dung. Like many of the fairy tales who came here before you... came and told fairy tales and then went. And no one remembers them again. ( Ambush the opposition.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U54	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U55	Dear colleagues, Honorable young Conservatives, I turn to you again. I think you have not only a lack of emotional intelligence, but also a selective vision: you are talking about some terrible things of the past... that education was very bad and everything else, but you don't see that in that terrible past there was not only a ZZS but also a Unity. And THE Unity was the one in charge of education as well as many other spheres. And finally, about selective vision again. You also do not see the Rules of the Rule of Procedure, that the Minister actually has the right to speak five minutes after that... Even behind every speaker. That is why Mrs Šuplinsk has every right to speak, and we too would like to hear him again. Thank you. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U56	Mr. Urbanovich, would you have 10 minutes? ( Internoint.) (Laughter) That's enough? Name to Member Janis Urbanovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U57	So many smart people... educate... and talks about the teaching process. I want something else. Colleagues! For many years, observations have shown that, as a rule, the dismantling of certain ministers... and the government... all kinds of requests and other activities take place one year before the elections, i.e. when there are major changes in the air. It has now started well in advance, and this only shows that there is a need for change. It has long been analysed by writers and speakers inside and outside this hall, and the question is just how it will change. And it's not about the Saeima, but it's about the coalition, isn't it? A coalition change is being made... and actions which, in cooperation with or without cooperation with the opposition, bring these changes closer to them. And there's nothing about the budget here. The budget is just such a stage... Still have not met the Order Roll and go and talk... There's a book that hasn't been opened... You see, that's the first thing. And that explains this hateful speech - with inaudibility. But there is one episode today that would make Mrs Šuplinsk think. Just before you behaved, I don't know what to look at, before you talk and talk, it's not always right - I think a lot of stupidity was done with your message, that's a huge stupidity. The proposal prepared by Evija Papule and supported by us on solving the problem of teachers and the problem of personnel... you just throw it out of the room, let's say, in the rooms, in the door to talk about it. Because you can't know how much is missing... And what is the prestige of those who still suffer as the last mochicans in this education... in the destroyed system. You didn't do that. If this is just the jealousy of the opposition and position, then I call on you to present yourself next Thursday. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Interdependence of the Muižniece.) If you don't, then... You can imagine... When you try to say that here's not to learn about teachers or to work - those who have learned... Like the nurses coming away... Those who apply, Mr. Znotins... Let's go. they take advantage of alternatives... They're going away from the ruined education system... and for free. Its Erasmus programmes and others. It's funny you don't know that. I think you don't know much. You should learn... start reading both the Constitution and the Order Rolls. I would really like this coalition not to fall so fast. Really! I want you to tell me what you've done. So far, you always tell really stories about what you have ideas. Come on, stop telling me that! Start it! Thank you. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U58	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on distrust for the Minister of Education and Science Ilgai Šuplinskai! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 32, it's against - 51, it's not. The draft decision was therefore rejected. Dear colleagues, Changes to the agenda for the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau have been tabled. Members Lībiņa-Egnere, Beitnere-Le Galla, Jansons, Steela, Lochmele-Lunova, Stein and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision on the admission of Karel Mark Shišona to the Latvian citizenship for special merits for Latvia. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Asheraden, Benhen-Beeken, Butan, Vucans, Kucins and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the approval of the Head of the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. On the agenda - draft decision on the dismissal of Daces Ķezberes from the post of a member of the National Electronic Media Council. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U59	Hello, dear colleagues! We have received a letter from the National Council for Electronic Media about the resignation of a member of the National Council for Electronic Media, which states that ‘by this National Council for Electronic Media (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Council’) pursuant to Article 59, third paragraph, point 1, of the Law on Electronic Media, the Saeima shall inform the Saeima that Dace Ķezbere, a member of the Council acting as President of the Council, has submitted to the Council on 30 September 2019 an application for leave of office at its own will on 15 December 2019.’ Please remove Daci Ķezber from office as a member of the National Electronic Media Council, at its own request, with effect from 15 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U60	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U61	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues! I would now like to call on you, perhaps last time, to listen to the words of Officer Kezbere: "I still consider strengthening reputation an important task, because the ability of the NAP to represent the interests of the media industry... depends directly on the credibility and credibility of the NAP voice." This is a quote from the last review of the publicly available action, and today we have to look at and conclude that the decisions taken by the NEEAPs over the last year have made it more than once questionable whether the NEAP action has been convincing, whether it has been credible or whether it has strengthened or, on the contrary, destroyed the reputation of the NEAP. Today, when we decide on the release of Mrs Ķezber, we are forced to admit that the task that Mrs Ķezber has set himself has not been fulfilled. After today's decision, there is likely to be a second vacancy for the NEPLP. And I wanted to invite you to consider a number of questions, thinking about what we're going to put on the spot. Currently, there is a new public media bill in preparation, which will result in a separation of public media monitoring from NEPT functions, leaving the regulatory functions in the media sector directly in terms of NEPT. This will be a new opportunity for the NEPT to give full attention to the strategic challenges of the entire media sector. Today I would like to remind you only of two. One is that media content consumption habits change. It is more difficult for any Latvian media to keep an audience under the influence of the global information space and the impact of our own use of technologies. More and more people in Latvia spend time directly with the Latvian media space. The second challenge is security issues in our information space. I would remind you that in Latvia NEPLP is the institution that can use the levers provided to it by law and European regulations to reduce hybrid threats in the media space. I therefore call on my colleagues to understand, first and foremost, that the regulator is an independent body and that the principle of political neutrality is therefore extremely important. I invite all of us to raise a high level of professionalism and to assess the ability of candidates to see the strategic challenges of the sector and to be ready to take active action in order to find solutions to these challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U62	The debate will continue after the break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Dear colleagues, attention to the announcement! A very beautiful anniversary was celebrated by our colleague Linda Liepiņa on Tuesday. Today's birthday is Aldi Gobzem. Congratulations to them! (Applause) Name to Member Uldis Budrik - for a statement.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U63	Colleagues! I ask the Group of Members, in order to facilitate cooperation with members of the Georgian Parliament, to move immediately towards the premises of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. We will have a meeting with the Georgian ministers on public cohesion issues. So don't bother and move right away!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U64	The name of the Member, Ilze Indricson, for the announcement.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U65	I call on the Kurzeme Group to meet not after the Saeima, but now in the Foreign Affairs Commission's Chamber.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U66	Name of the Saeima Secretary Maria Golubeva. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U67	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Aldis Blumbergs, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Marija Golubeva... Is, Kaspars Girgen, Inese Rectsen, Artuss Neighbour... Yes, Oyars Eriks Neighbour... I am sorry, Kalniņš, Andris Kazinovskis, Rihards Kols, Janīna Kursīte–Pakule, Ainars Latkovskis, Inese Lībiņa–Egnere, Ināra Mūrniece (Intermediary: Yes!) )... is, Linda Ozola, Ivans Ribakovs, Mārtiņš Staķis, Didzis Šmits, Jānis Tutins... ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ), Didzis Schmidt... And, Jānis Tutins, Jānis Vitenbergs... Yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U68	Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U69	Dear colleagues, let's go! In the second part of the meeting, we shall continue the debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U70	Dear Member of the Speaker of the Saeima. Honourable Members! Today, I wanted more on this agenda issue to talk about things that could be topical and which young Conservatives, including myself, could raise in daylight by questioning any future members of the NEPT. As is well known, a competition is currently taking place for at least one of the NEPT member's posts. Two contests! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “No! Two people for one competition!” ) In any case, when it comes to the question of young Conservatives, one of the things we will ask them about will be Russian propaganda, for example. It is no secret that Russian propaganda and disinformation have been distributed for many years through Russian television channels in Latvia without any serious resistance and restrictions. It should be stressed that limiting disinformation and reducing its impact is vital for the protection of Latvian democracy and the maintenance of security. I have heard and people at all have heard that the NEPT considers that existing laws of Latvia and the European Union are not enough to achieve this goal. Then I have a question. Why was there not a major alarm raised both in Riga and Brussels to bring about the necessary changes to the law to build up the NAP capacity, for example, in terms of monitoring media content? It should be noted here that the laws of the European Union currently in force also allow sanctions to be imposed against those media that spread hate speech and propaganda of war, including those that are divided into societies. This concerns financial penalties and the temporary closure of channels. Unlike Lithuania, Latvia, in particular, has not made sufficient use of this opportunity. The closure of the channels with us has been on relatively short deadlines and the deadlines have been set by the NEPT itself. We've had... and align these deadlines with Brussels, but do so very rarely and set such short deadlines when compared to the same neighbouring countries. All this is that hate speech on these channels can be detected every week. It could be said that... Another question that we could talk about with potential candidates for NELP membership is that... on TV channel packages. In private and even state-owned, cable companies are not... The Kremlin propaganda channels are included. And as if there's no immediate responsibility of the NEPLP... but in the public space somehow failed to hear the alarm about this thing. Therefore, the NEPT would have required that this problem be more up-to-date. We are still in a situation where we criticise the Kremlin's informational attacks and at the same time provide Russian propagandaists with an opportunity to wash the brain of Latvian citizens with the help of state-owned companies. I think that is absurd. But there is still an information space problem in Latgale. And if everyone has already forgotten about the failure of the Latvian Television Board's selection competition, which ended with a scandal, or the interview of Jānis Jurkans is broadcast live... The Kremlin Propaganda Channel for Russia Today... What happened from Latvian TV seems to be “Panoramas” studies? It is therefore clear that every future member of the NEPT must be able to give a clear answer to what he will personally do in order to eliminate all the problems that I have mentioned, and also those that I have not mentioned, but those that are topical. Of course, we do not have options and we must support, fortunately, this submission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (A. Neighbourhood sub-scenario) We certainly need to support it. And if she hadn't submitted it, we should let her go. Thank you. ( Ambush the coalition.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U71	Thank you. Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U72	You respect the Presidium! Dear Members, I have not now come to defend Mrs Ķezbere, given that she has submitted her return and this is her choice. However, I think she deserves... and at least I will thank you here for the work she has done. She just didn't... be in this difficult time for the manager... Not just the NEPLP alone, without you and our help, without the help of the government and Parliament, will be able to resolve and do all the things that are simply required at the moment... New circumstances require, the threat of the information space requires, perhaps in a very different way... That is why the sub-committee, I hope, will complete its work on the monitoring mechanism for public media. And let it be that those new leaders who will now come and all of these standards will meet the standards of how they are drawn here... that they would also be those who would pull this situation out so that very many would praise it. Maybe... Perhaps Mrs. Ķezbere's misfortune was that she wanted to do too much. Whoever works, they're wrong. And I know so many institutions still unfortunately in public administration, which... Neither you nor anyone else knows who leads them, because he sits quietly there, works, and is not harmful to anyone. But the tasks of the NEPT are really grand and complex. Internet environment, threats, what are... There are also works that, perhaps, no one can see. You cannot currently name those channels that have not received broadcasting rights. There have been such ones. And, Mr. Village, I now turn to you. As I said before, this is a very great responsibility. In fact, you have already "coded" the second manager... in two names... This means that responsibility is even greater than who will be the third leader (Dep. (A. Neighbourhood sub-scenario) Who will be that new. I hear backstage about the party agreement, about the birds that have started to fly to land there... Everything will be in our hands. I will keep on the floor Mr. Kaimiņš, who told me in the meantime that the commission would be objective and that he would also find the best candidates in the commission, and that they would not in any way be ingenious or sent to perform any tasks... that we will all work in good faith to make this environment, which must be monitored by the NEPPs, clean and transparent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U73	Thank you. The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U74	Dear colleagues, I did not intend to take part in this discussion, in particular, there is no need to discuss it, because the chairman of the Council has himself submitted a rendition, but, of course, this is not accidental. Mr Feldman's statement also shows to a large extent why professionals cannot work in independent institutions. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “Because they're the Kremlin propaganda... !” ) Mrs Ķezbere herself said that the basis for her decision was, to a large extent, political pressure, and that is the case. Well, now you're gonna put your people there, your Commissioner, in security, there's nothing... there will be no freedom, no propaganda, and so on. Mr. Feldman, you are a young man, but it seems that you are still living in the 20th century! What you offer is possible, perhaps, in China. It is possible in Turkmenistan. Perhaps you want to consult Turkmenbashi on how to close the information space in a country? Do you know the data which technologies are now used to provide access to content? You're just interested! Because cable TV is not already the most common, because terrestrial broadcasting is used from those commercial packages of about five percent, and the figures change every year. More and more people are using... consumes content through the Internet, because now every person can watch what he wants when he wants using devices that are more convenient to him. You are talking about the fight against the information war and so on. How will you do that? Because, Latvia, I'm sorry... Either, but we are not Turkmenistan. Before you drive on (forgive me, to put it rudely) professionals, it would not be bad to get to know the situation. Whatever we elect next time you have the same attitude, those new members of the Council will be forced to resign, because it is our responsibility, however, to provide a legislative framework. Have we done this? No, not at all. So, to get something to ask Lattelecom not to broadcast, do not include... no more than two programs... Russian professionals have long explained how this will lead to the withdrawal of Russian opposition programmes from the ether, because the businessmen will retain the most watched programs, and these are the same voices of the Kremlin. But the few programmes that are currently available, such as Djdj and other opposition programmes, will no longer be available in Latvia via cable and terrestrial broadcasting. They will still be available on the Internet... ever - free of charge, ever - for a fee. But these methods... You know, it reminds me of my youth years when the Communist regime fought against enemy voices. You offer the same methods. That's not working anymore! Because the only way propaganda can be combated is to really investigate every particular case and apply restrictions on freedom of expression on the basis of the exceptions provided for in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. It is a very labour-intensive process, it is necessary, and the European Union really is now working... It is already to a large extent done that its freedom of distribution, the freedom of cross-border television, is restricted and obviously will be further restricted, but it will be a penalty for each particular infringement on a case-by-case basis. But the most important thing is to create alternative content. If you just ban, people will still watch exactly what you don't want them to watch if you don't offer anything else. The primary responsibility of the Council is to develop national orders and to identify content that could compete with the same Russian propaganda and Russian content. I am very sorry that the New Conservative Party has still not understood that you are still living in the 20th century, when bans could achieve everything you want. Well, I'm afraid that's why the results are. We have just talked about education. I very much hope that in the media you will not achieve the same sad result as you have already achieved in the field of education. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U75	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U76	I fully agree with what Mr Feldman said that propaganda must be combated. But! First of all, propaganda can be combated by training people in kindergartens, schools and universities (and this is precisely the task of the UKP), because educated people will not be able to manipulate what Krišjānis Feldmans is doing on Twitter, for example. I will quote a few examples. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “Well! Well!” ) “If there were no conservatives in the budgetary negotiations, we would also face a severe economic downturn in this cycle.” All right. (Laughter) Thank you very much. Isn't that propaganda? Is it not for the part of people that Krišjānis Feldman considers uneducated? I guess I do. Second. Krišjānis Feldmans has repeatedly been on the platform and has said - and it is propaganda too! - that "we are fighting for the introduction of "3 × 500" and so on. I would like to remind you that there are at least 52 or 53 votes in the House... If we voted in the KIP and we would already have "3 × 500" in place tomorrow... It's elementary mathematics. And every educated person would understand that. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. ( See K. Feldman's Intersense.) What do I mean? If we restrict propaganda, then we should start with education first. And the first thing to do is that the JCBP should turn to its Minister, the Minister for Education and Science, and this must be said about how to implement it accordingly through the education system. And then. If we want to limit ourselves, then we absolutely must limit the propagandaist Krišjānis Feldman, who has made so many false statements both on social networks and from this parliamentary tribunal. Thank you. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U77	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U78	Colleagues! Today, there are many reasoned criticisms about the work of the Council. However, I think it would be completely absurd and naive to believe that only Mrs Ķezbere is to blame for such the Council's performance. The Commission should also be equally responsible for assessing the work of the other members of the Board. I hope that if all you have said today was not just a cover for propaganda for your political purposes, for a political deal to put just one member of the Council in place, then you will now also look at all the other members of the Council. Because the problem that the Council has been working on was already predictable. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “Propagandists Zariņš!” ) And I also warned of this when the council was formed. That it was not created by choosing the best of the best. This was the result of a political market. You remember, there were even leaves, where there were commissions... to the members of the commission, accompanied by... how to vote in the competition - who must put a protagonist, who must put a minus to the coalition parties... that everyone get their own people on the board. And the fact that now in the board... things that happened, especially in the public media... There was absolutely no fault for Mrs. Ķezber! There are quite other members of the board who are lobbying the interests of a particular party. And that's the result - we're where we are. And all the accusations that we are hearing - they should perhaps be received not by Mrs Ķezbere, but by someone quite different. ( Internouncing call.) And the question is, are you going to consider the other members of the board or not? If you do not make an assessment and if there are no such assessments and similar decisions for the other members of the Council, then it means that all this is simply a continuation of the old policy and you are dealing with the political market and manipulation. ( Insight: “We should not have supported it?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ So, my fellow Members, I call you to do your job to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U79	Thank you. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Feldman: “Did you give up the premium?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U80	Dear colleagues, While Mr Feldman is waiting for the group leader's approval to allow him to speak again and to harmonise what he has to say, whether he can say it or not, I would like to tell you that I will not personally participate in the vote, because I believe that this decision by Mrs Ķezber has indeed been made as a result of political pressure. In principle, the Legal Commission was also a witness to the fact that Mr. Bordāns also wanted to remove Ms. Kezbere from his post by various means, asking for support from the Legal Commission. Finally, I would also like to say to Mr Kaimina that you will not always be in a coalition, you will not always be the Head of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Those who now use you will be the first to turn you away when you no longer have such a good life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U81	I closed the debate. Is there anything else to be added from the commission? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Yes!” ) Please! Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U82	Point 21 of the agenda, or question 21 on the release of Daces Ķezberes from the office of a member of the National Electronic Media Council, is a subject that was to be discussed here, not about Russian propaganda, not about who is speaking... And I'm talking... ( The box “For the Commission! ”) ) Mr. Krauze, I am speaking. On behalf of the Commission, I will tell you even more. Russian propaganda has increased its budget from EUR 1 billion to EUR 1.3 billion. Our public media budget is around EUR 29 million. In this case... for new candidates, where the competition was opened before 5 p.m. on 14 October, we expect applications. I can promise that the sittings of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs will be open. I would very much ask that each of you, who has an opinion, how to work for the media, for the state, how to be a monitor, how good, for the poor, for the knowledge of... Come on, please, to the commission. Ask the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs personally about that person, because only there will that candidate be able to give you answers, not when the two come... surnames already here, on the Saeima sitting, when you’ll just be able to talk what he’s probably bad (Minimum: “The question is... !” ‘For the Commission!’, ), but he will not be able to answer you. Therefore, everyone is welcome to open meetings of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs to ask these potential candidates. I call on you to vote in favour of this draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U83	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the release of Daces Ķezberes from the post of member of the National Electronic Media Council! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 63, against and refrains. Decision adopted. The next item is the draft decision on the approval of the Head of the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference. Members Asheraden, Benhen-Beeken, Butan, Vucans, Kucins, Strike, Dzintars and others submitted a draft decision “On the approval of the Head of the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of the Head of the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 72, for - no, for - 1. Decision adopted. The next item is the treatment of parliamentary requests. Request by Members Zarina, Lochmeles-Lunova, Dombrovskis, Kucina, Agešina, Krišana and others to the Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On legal nihilism at the Cabinet of Ministers regarding provision of the increase in the statutory funding for the remuneration of health care workers”. On behalf of the Commission - Member Linda Liepiņa. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U84	Hello, colleagues! On 2 October this year, the Commission of Petitions examined a request from Members Ivars Zariņa, Regina Ločmele-Lunova, Vjačeslava Dombrovska, Edgars Kucina, Valeria Agešina, Jānis Krišāns, Ivana Ribakova, Borisa Cileviča, Jānis Urbanoviča and Vladimir Nikonova to the Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On legal nihilistism in the office of Ministers regarding ensuring that the increase in the statutory funding for the remuneration of health care workers is provided”. Although the request was addressed to the Prime Minister and it was precisely about respect for the rule of law or non-compliance with decisions taken by the Saeima, Mr Kariņš had delegated health ministers Ilzi Viņķelis to explain matters of interest to Members. I shall not hide the fact that such a rather sharp, interesting and emotional debate has taken place in the Commission, given the importance of the matter. Health problems, healthcare will probably always be the hottest topic - as we have heard, as it is with education. The applicants encouraged us to declare a break in the reading of the particular issue until the Prime Minister himself had found time to meet the Request Commission (for so far we have not managed to meet Krišjānis Kariņa!) , until he or she has the time to provide answers to questions of interest to Members. However, it must be acknowledged that the members of the Commission differed in their views on this matter, and the result of the vote was the following: a majority of the votes decided that Mr Kariņš' presence was not necessary to consider the request addressed to him. What else do I mean? The sitting was really interesting. And in a way, the Minister for Health gave Members a stick like a better way of making their decisions to the Saeima Members in general, noting that paper tolerates everything, and that we, as Members of the Saeima, should still make smarter decisions that the government would be able to enforce. The Commission then voted on such a note. And when seven Members voted in favour and eight against, it was decided to reject the request.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U85	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Inguna Reibena.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U86	Dear colleagues, The request shall contain the following information: Legal nihilism is based on the general legal nihilism of the political environment. For more than 16 years, diverse groups of people and experts have met in meetings, seminars, discussions, and discussions. Many taxpayers' paid working groups in various institutions, from the Ministry of Health and the Saeima to the non-governmental sector, have argued, proved, decided to introduce such or other health insurance model. To illustrate, a small overview of the title of the LETA message. 22 January 2003. ‘ Presents Members the progress made in introducing a compulsory free health insurance system’. 19 February 2003. ‘ Invite the Saeima to prioritise health care in the second half of the year’. 15 July 2007. ‘ Veldre: A general compulsory health insurance system should be introduced over the next three years". 14 August 2007. ‘ The "new time" will present its mandatory health insurance option". 11 September 2007. ‘ There will be no mandatory health insurance next year". 27 September 2008. ‘ The Ministry of Health does not support the “New Time” idea of compulsory health insurance”. 29 September 2009. ‘ Circene: no additional tax will be paid for receiving health services’. 3 February 2010. ‘ By the end of March, the working group of the Ministry of Health will assess the utility of introducing compulsory health insurance in Latvia”. 24 October 2011. The Government declaration of Valda Dombrovskis regarding the health sector states the following commitments: “We will improve the financing system by linking the payment of personalized taxes to the state budget with the receipt of scheduled health care services. We will ensure that healthcare is available evenly throughout the country. Let us define and separate publicly paid medical services and paid services by providing citizens with clear and unambiguous information on the procedures and payment of the services." 18 July 2012. ‘ From July next year, it is planned to introduce a link between personal income tax and scheduled health care”. 21 January 2013. ‘ A plan to link health care with tax is launched in the government’. 29 October 2013. ‘ There is still a decision on the new Health Care Financing Act’. 18 June 2014 ‘ The Saeima Commission will decide on further examination of the new draft health care financing law’. 16 July 2015. ‘ Circene: the idea of declaring the concept of compulsory health insurance to be null and void is populist and cowardice’. 1 October 2015. ‘ Strat: a compulsory health insurance system should be introduced from 2017.’ 6 January 2016. ‘ Strat: introducing compulsory health insurance is the government's big job this year". 9 February 2016. ‘ From the statement by the government of Kučinskis: let us develop a model of a compulsory health insurance system by determining the source and rate of the basic health contribution.’ 29 February 2016. ‘ Members will get acquainted with neighbouring countries' experience in health insurance’. 21 April 2016 ‘ Belēvičs: We will offer a number of health insurance models to the government.’ 2 July 2016. ‘ The new Minister for Health, Čakša, waives compulsory health insurance’. 11 October 2016 ‘ The government conceptually supports the model of financing health care, which does not involve additional payments to the population. 31 March 2017 ‘ An international conference on healthcare financing will be held at the Saeima’. 30 May 2017 ‘ Kučinskis: the consultation period is over and the coalition will have to decide on the financing of the health sector next week". 1 June 2017 ‘ The Ministry of Health will offer two types of health insurance baskets – shared and full”. 29 June 2017 ‘ Kučinskis: by September a law on the financing of the health sector will be drawn up’. Then comes 14 December 2017, a historical decision. LETA: “National compulsory health insurance will start in 2019, decided by the Saeima.” Perhaps someone in society still believes in it. ( Internouncing call.) 1 September 2018. ‘ Contributions may start to be paid for all public health services.’ This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following Latvia introduces state health insurance and two baskets of health services”. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following National health insurance could start operating in a month’. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following Chicago: the division of health services into two baskets should not be delayed, as it will be technically feasible in the coming weeks’ time’. And yet... This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that Until 1 July, the Saeima shall postpone the division of health services into two baskets.’ Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 May 2011 In the coming months, Viņķele promises a new offer for health care.’ This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The coalition will launch a debate on the changes proposed by Viņķele in the financing of health care." And then comes May 14, 2019. And regardless of that Prime Minister Karin and Minister for Finance Reir are in politics for as long as I and Minister for Health Viņķele for even longer, the government... The title of the other LETA message: ‘The Government shall support the postponement of the health insurance system until 2021’. And 6 June 2019. ‘ The Saeima is conceptually in favour of postponing the health insurance system until 2021.’ Absolute foam and absolute ignorance! All this is a clear indication that nothing has been done over 16 years in fundamental transformation and improvement of health care for the population of the country. And the 2019 votes show that 13. The Saeima and the government have taken over the staff to continue this endless story. If there is a wish to hear something about Estonia again - a responsible, joint and several state compulsory health insurance system has been in place since 1993, and in Lithuania it has been in force since 1998. And by the end. Politicians have been training themselves and society for years in legal nihilism. Cinism, irresponsibility and incompetentness, at least in the area of health funding, have reached their ceilings. In a legal state, politicians must not deceive and seduce society. There should be no tolerance in the rule of law towards the situation that there is a law, but there is no funding. The healthcare system has been de facto in a deep crisis for a long time and nothing has been solved with the 'yes' or 'no' vote. I call on the Cabinet to decide on the announcement of the emergency situation in health care. ( The box “Yes! ”) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U87	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U88	Yes, colleagues! What happened is really very worrying. And I'll explain why. Those who listen. First of all, what happened then. So: on 13 September this year the government - contrary to the rule of law, contrary to the clearly given task of the Saeima to the government! - meet together and decide not to grant statutory funding for medical remuneration for 2020. Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš, after the meeting of the government, comes to journalists and is pleased that the government has decided on an additional... the reallocation of funds into the 2020 budget. And in practice that means - he says - that we have made political agreement on the budget for next year and that only clarification will be made in the next few weeks. I wonder if Karin knew what he was saying at that time, what did he admit? So he says that it was important for them to reach political agreement, to make a political deal, and that they do not care what is written in the law, and that they are happy that they have managed to reach political agreement, the law is not important. What happened has been a serious concern for society as a whole. Well, how's that going? Then it happens that our Latvia as a legal and democratic state is in fact a fiction. If even the government does not comply with the law, you can afford not to comply with the law, then... In such a case (Dep. D. Schmits is applauding.) ... How, then, can we demand from the rest of the community that we carry out our work in good faith and according to the law?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Request a tax?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Because, according to the same logic, anyone can say now - I'm sorry, I won't pay, I just don't have money, I want to spend it somewhere else, so I won't pay you tax. This is what the government is demonstrating at the moment. That is why we prepared a request for Krišjānis Kariņš to provide a legal basis for his actions. Because what's happening is just dramatic! It undermines the state of Latvia as a legal and democratic state in its own foundations. First of all, only the facts so that you can understand how serious the situation is. So that's the factology. In 2018, that is, last year, 13 December, the Saeima prepares draft law “On the State Budget”, requiring the Cabinet of Ministers to provide funding to increase the payment of health care workers by 20 per cent. In 2020 - EUR 191 million. This means that there must be an additional 119.7 million in the budget. So it's a very specific delegation, a task for the government. This is not a general speech. It is a specific provision of the law and a specific task for a given year, a specific amount for the government. What is the government doing? As I said, on 13 September this year, that is, in exactly nine months' time, namely, the government is meeting together and adopting a budget distribution that is completely in contradiction with what is stated in the law. They're predicting a 42 million increase in salaries... It is three times less than the law. What happens next? We are making a request on this. A meeting of the Appeals Commission shall be held on 2 October this year. The request is made to Krišjānis Kariņš on the legality of the Government's decision. We want to get some justification. Very specific questions. First of all, what is the legal basis, and how does he himself, Krišjānis Kariņš, who heads the "justice and justice" coalition, evaluate such a government decision? Does he think that in a “legal and just” state, too, the government must comply with the law? Of course, as always, Krišjānis Kariņš does not come to the examination of the request himself. He's not sending health ministers Ilzi Viņķelis for some reason. Why “nothing” and why is it strange? Because the issue is not about the health sector at present, but about the legitimacy of the government's own decisions. He sends Ilzi Viņķelis, who, of course, cannot answer anything about the rule of law. No justification can be given at all. Instead, the Minister is trying to insult the Saeima, to say, you know, you've made a silly decision. Sorry, I don't know what legal norms it should be interpreted, that let's say, legal norms depending on that they are... how they have been accepted... that can be said - in the number of the norm of this law, it must be fulfilled, but this - need not be fulfilled. If all of them are accepted, if all of them have the same legal force... Maybe I don't know anything again. Perhaps something in our country has changed over time with the paradigm of the rule of law and is similar to Orwell's story that everyone is equal, but some provisions of the law are more equal than others and do not have to be fulfilled. But this statement by Mrs. Viņķele... they are absurd in nature. And Krišjānis Kariņš... How did he try to justify... He wrote a letter to the Appeals Commission, trying to say that each... Why didn't they do it... He pointed out that the Law on Budgets and Financial Management stated that each... ‘The State must, at the same time as imposing an obligation on it, provide for the means to cover the relevant expenditure’. Well, but of course, Krišjān Karin! That was also the decision of our legislator in a democratic parliamentary state. We told you in good time, in 2018,: when you make a budget, you have to find so much money for this particular requirement, specifically saying that this is a priority. The reservation now used by Krišjānis Kariņš regarding medical fees... it would be the place if the Saeima suddenly invented and said in 2020: a you know, we want to have so much money! Then, in fact, Krišjānis Kariņš could say: “You know, apologies, but, according to the budget law, we already have everything planned. We've put everything together. If you want to change something now, then you need to find where to take that money from.” In this case, we predicted this rule in good time, ordering the government to do it and find it. On the other hand, the government - contrary to this - did nothing at all. ‘ The government simply ignored this provision of the law in terms of justice and openness. What's interesting in this sitting? What happened next? Consequently, no reply to the legality of the Government's decision was provided in Parliament. And what did this House do next? ‘ Members of the Coalition for Justice and Justice proposed: "You know, we do not need it, we do not want it... we also don't want to hear... We do not want any justification for the legitimacy of the government's decision." So in essence, what they proposed - they called for the violation not only of the law, but also of the Constitution. And here I appeal to my colleagues from the New Conservative Party. It is your voices - it is your voices! - there were those who ensured that such action, which is contrary to the Constitution, contrary to the law and contrary to the principles, values that you have declared in terms of justice, the rule of law, openness, is being carried out. In principle, you are now doing exactly the same thing as you have criticised the Riga City Council - hiding, trying to hide the validity of the actions in which you have participated. ( Internouncing call.) What happened to you? Essentially, this situation is indeed a pre-existing legal nihilism that is currently taking place in our country. Such legal nihilism was not experienced even during the so - called oligarch coalitions. And it really undermines Latvia as a legal and democratic state. The fact that the government had no right to hide this information from the Saeima... This is demonstrated by a similar situation with... Opinion given by the Legal Bureau when... that if such a request has been made and the Requesting Commission has requested a reply to it, such a reply had to be prepared. Colleagues! This is very serious - what we are talking about today. If we now allow this legal nihilism, then in principle, we say that in our country the law may not be respected. And the government shows this to everyone by its example. Where's it going? Then it happens that this principle “One Law - One Truth for All” is a complete fiction; that Latvia as a legal and democratic state has now become a fiction. In essence, what are we talking about now? In essence, we are currently talking about the creation of a political cartel. Like in construction... Everyone was outraged at what was being built (Interior call: “Rightly!” ), that there is a cartel that the President of the Competition Council rightly referred to as one of the most serious crimes against society. It is the same cartel that is currently formed in politics: it is simply the assembly of individual political parties, how they are more convenient, how they divide the benefits between themselves - and even ignore the law, and not even try to do it within the law. Excuse me, where else?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Where are we going?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And this is what society as a whole is hearing right now. The whole society is outrageous about this. If you leave this situation and do not solve it, then I think you have turned your end on. This will be remembered in particular by those voters who hoped that the new policy would come here. The new policy, which will be based on justice, the rule of law and openness. At the moment, there is absolutely the opposite. Colleagues, I call on you to think at least of your destiny. Think about what you are doing and support this request. Because it would be reasonable that, today, we are asking for Krišjānis Kariņš to arrive here and provide justification for the legitimacy of this government's decision. If you are going not to support this request, then I call on you to come here to justify this justification - where there is a legal basis for such a government decision. If you cannot do this today, then, in essence, you acknowledge that you are now covering up actions that cannot be called anything other than a political cartel against the interests of society, against Latvia as a democratic state, against Latvia as a legal state. Make a conclusion! If someone is going not to support it today, come here and tell me. Otherwise you will confirm that you have lost your values, your principles; that you transfer your constituents and do not care for the public interest. Thank you. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U89	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U90	There are different Saeima and governments to which some name could be added. We had governments, even several, in my opinion, which talked about structural reforms, repeating constantly... It also left behind its structural reform. This government and, unfortunately, the Saeima, which allows it to... I think that will be characterized by the words contained in this request - by the "legal nihilism". Moreover, this is not the first case. We have a unanimous decision by the Saeima on the abolition of the OIC on 31 March... where no draft decision has been submitted even from the government. I am not saying that it would have been rejected later. It wasn't even brought! We have teachers' salaries... the timetable that we are going to take, but we can see that the money in the budget is not there. This is just another example, and I will not repeat Ivars Zarina very precisely... That's how Valdis Zatlers used to set an example by taking money in envelopes and not paying for it. Teaching society was: you want to be president - accept the envelopes! There's a second lesson here. If the government and the Saeima can themselves... I mean, the government of the Saeima decisions, the Saeima's own decisions to ignore, then really... What do we expect from humans? Why do we expect the shadow economy in the country to disappear or fall some day? Yeah? One more thing I want to say about the budget and how we plan money. Well, who do we not have? We don't have health... for medical staff salaries, we do not plan a rise in teachers' salaries according to schedule, but we will have an embassy... Australia! We have an embassy in Australia! That was really what we cannot do next year and years after. One of the reasons why we will have an Embassy in Australia is the pressure of the Diaspora on something. It's interesting to think... It must be that all of us here in Australia live under constant pressure. We will also have money for ourselves, for the parties. Not in the next term, but in this! It's under pressure. It's not really clear what kind of pressure. Whether the President pushes the Saeima or the Saeima pushes the President. But, well, the president certainly knows all about it. I think it may be wrong, but obviously our teachers and their trade union and health... medical staff must take their time to Australia and learn how to apply pressure. — Dep. R. Lochmele-Lunova’s intermediate call. to finally come out of what needs to come. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U91	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U92	This phrase could be said on any subject, not just health care... on education, all the rest of the coalition's boasting from the tribunal and the media about how nothing has been arranged for the last 28 years, and we have been working hard for years, and we have done nothing in 29. But in principle in the healthcare system, I think everything is all right, and we can read it in the press, because the Minister of Health Ilze Viņķele on his mission in New York for two nights for the state, that is, for the taxpayer, funds can be charged for EUR 1240.99, that is, EUR 600 per night for the rooms. The country also paid her home tickets, of course, after she had gone to New York. Today, the Prime Minister tells journalists that there is no money for the health sector. Well, according to Mrs Viņķele's resources, I can say that Mr Kariņš has not been fully informed about what is happening in the healthcare system. Honourable members of the opposition, you do not need to be outrageous about this issue, because Mr Kariņš does not come to Parliament obviously because he is not clear about what to report and what to report. Apparently, as a prime minister, he did not know the spheres entrusted to him... and, in particular, does not know what is happening in the healthcare system. One more thing to say about the health system. I think it's already set up and... Let us be honest, there is in fact no free medicine in Latvia. In Latvia, there is actually paid medicine. If you want to get to a doctor, you pay for this visit. If you are not ready to wait a year or how many years there are in that row. And since people are rational and adequate beings and usually do not wait in the queue, they open their wallets and pay for medical care. That, of course, is also irony. But if we are talking about legal nihilism - clearly this is these coalitions - and not just these coalitions! - responsibility. I have to turn to Latvian society. Those parts of the public listening to and watching today's parliamentary sitting. Honorable Latvian Society! As long as you express your displeasure in internet comments and kitchens, and as long as you are afraid to leave your comfort zone and be afraid to demand what is rightfully due to you, what is already laid down in the law, and as long as you are afraid to protest, as you have been afraid for the last 28 years, nothing will change objectively either. Because those politicians who are in power - they are also in this Saeima room mostly not listening to and dealing with health problems, but scrottering their hot phones; they are not interested in this matter. They understand that you, an honorable society, will not be protesting. And so they allow them to do what is already happening in Latvia – to make decisions, but not to do them, to speak one thing, but to do another. Who can change it? We can, of course, climb into the platform and point to it, but the only way to change it is Latvian society. If Latvian society does not want to change it, then there may be only one conclusion: maybe we do not really have problems that need to be addressed. But if there are such problems, then every one of us who loves our country Latvia and wants to have a health care system and an education system in Latvia, and anything... Any other question must begin to wake up. I understand that it is difficult. I understand that it is difficult and it is cowardly, because it can be laid off, there can be a variety of sanctions, but there are no other options, because it does so in any developed democracy. And if you say that you have no strength, then look at our neighboring country, dear Latvian people! Russia is fighting for democracy for decades. People are put in prison, but they are not afraid, they are slow to wake up and fight for their rights. We don't have anyone in jail. You just have to get up. I assure you that the day when 50,000 will come off the shoreline... not only in Ligo evening or watch the fireworks on 18 November, but will come to ask the parliament and the coalition for them to comply with their own decisions and fulfil their pre-election promises... I guarantee that after such a peaceful demonstration life here will change completely. I assure you that on that day, all the rhetoric that is such a dazzling rhetoric for. U. Budrik: “Speak on the request!” )... About... that we are already fighting here and we are doing something here, but that we will have done nothing for another year... that it will end then. That is why I call at least on you, the health system workers (interface.) ... I call on you to be those who come to help the opposition, because we will support you. And by the end. Here often coalition Members refer to the previous government, but I would like to emphasise that the former government's Minister for Health is your coalition's partner today. You're in the same coalition. You are the ones who have been in power for 29 years in one form or another. You have done nothing, and you are proud of it. You're proud of it just because you think that when you're in the Saeima, you're superior to the Latvian society. But that's not true. It is not true, in Sandi Riekstin, that legal nihilism does not mean that you, honourable Member, can climb into the barn and say that you are fighting against the mafia at a time when you yourself are punished for participating in the cartel (Dep. S. Riekstins: “Really? Are you not lying?” ) and can be read on the Competition Council’s website. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstin’s intermediate call sign.) That's why... because I know that repetition is the mother of knowledge. Dear Society, nothing will change if you click in the kitchen and the Internet. You have to wake up and come to help! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U93	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U94	Colleagues, again. I mean, it's not to be built. This request to the Prime Minister is, in a way, natural. Yeah, how else? How was there any other outcome at all in the situation of “Development/About!” with such a huge amount of energy came up with a proposal that the health insurance reform should be abolished, that the package of services should be abolished and that all that the previous government has done is wrong. The only problem is that you didn't put anything in place. Although, as I said from this troupe, at the time when Minister Viņķele removed it, she came with an offer. Unfortunately, this did not have your support. Unfortunately, we told you from this platform that there would be problems. There will be a problem with the fact that there will simply be no resources to be paid to doctors on salaries. Today we are in this situation, and it would be very unacceptable if you did not support this request, because it is precisely because of your inaction.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U95	The debate has not yet been closed. Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U96	I was looking forward in particular to the last moment when the chair of the sitting will be ready to say that the debate is closed. The reason is very simple. When this debate started, I called on you, the coalition Members responsible for this government decision, to come here and give the basis for the government's decision on the rule of law. If you are not now coming and do not give the justification for this government's decision on the rule of law, then you acknowledge that this decision was unlawful, that there is no justification for it. You will now vote, not on the basis of your conscience, not on the basis of "justness and justice", but on the basis of a political deal. This vote will immediately show everything. And I hope that those who are following this sitting will appreciate it and draw conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U97	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? No, no. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivars Zariņa, Regina Ločmeles–Lunova, Vjačeslava Dombrovska, Edgars Kucina, Valeria Agešina, Jānis Krišāna, Ivana Ribakova, Borisa Cileviča, Jānis Urbanoviča and Vladimira Nikonova's request to the Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš "On legal nihilistism at the office of Ministers regarding ensuring the payment of the statutory increase in funding for health care workers"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 32, it's against - 43, it's not. The request was rejected. On the agenda - Member Viktors Valaiņa, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Jānis Vucana, Armanda Krauze, Ulda Augulis, Linda Liepiņa, Jānis Dūklavs, Janīna Jalinska, Māra Kučinska and Alda Gobzems, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pucem, for not complying with the Law on Public Procurement when ordering research. Member of the Commission of the European Union Uldis Budriķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U98	The Commission examined the request to the Minister of State for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Juris Pucem, the Member of the Commission, Valaiņa, Vucana, Krauze, Reizniece-Ozola, Planta and other requests “On the fact that the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, when ordering research, does not comply with the Public Procurement Law”. There was no big discussion in the Commission because Mr Valaiņa said at the very beginning that he had turned to the law enforcement authorities, and then the commission was not a court. And in general, with three votes in favour, eight against and two abstentions, and only one Member, the Commission decided that the request by Members should be rejected. Consequently, there is no reason to accept this request as a request by the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U99	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U100	Colleagues, I will be a little more precise about what the rapporteur said. I have turned not to law enforcement agencies, but to the Procurement Monitoring Office. But... Well, I'd like to start by... I think we all share a common understanding of the need to comply with the law. And how public money is spent... it would be, I think, an important thing: to respect the law on public procurement that we have all adopted. Of course, the Minister in his work... has chosen this way - not to work with the Ministry's internal resources, but to order out. That is his right and, of course, he can. However, there is a procedure to get to the most advantageous and most understandable offer for society as a whole - it is a competition. Of course, the law also provides for exceptions, and it is not always necessary to organise a competition. There may be emergencies - fires, floods - but I draw your attention to the fact that even in such extreme cases... that not always such situations - floods or fires - may serve as a basis for initiating such a procedure. This question - when and when the norms of the law that the Minister has used - has also been divided by the court, and there is a clear and clear statement at which and where - the moments can and cannot. In any case, Saeima's decision - Saeima's decision, colleagues! - which the Minister mentioned in his letter of withdrawal as the basis for initiating this emergency procedure... We have had the same decision, as I said before, on the termination of the OIC. There is no exceptional situation there. There is no emergency for medical salaries. Failure in organising the European Parliament elections - there was no emergency either. But in this case, when time is given - a whole year - to develop research, there is an emergency. Of course, I have addressed the Procurement Monitoring Office to evaluate it. But what is the responsibility of the Minister? The request was addressed to the Minister so that the Minister explained what was happening in his ministry. Well, it's not the minister's making purchases. But the fact that the Minister, with his signature, is then writing off, telling us that everything has been right - I think it is the Minister's responsibility. This request is not intended for Minister Pucem to have any political responsibility for it; this request is more focused on this way... that it doesn't become a precedent. Imagine what will happen to state resources if, suddenly, all of us - municipalities on the basis of some decisions or ministries - begin to spend state resources in this way! In my opinion, this is not acceptable, and it is a very dangerous precedent. I very much hope that the Procurement Monitoring Office with everything for them... provide clarity on this issue as soon as possible with the right granted by law. I call for this request to be supported simply so as not to continue this illegal precedent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U101	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for a Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Jānis Vucena, Armanda Krauze, Ulda Augulis, Linda Liepiņa, Jānis Dūklava, Janīna Jalinska, Māra Kučinska and Alda Gobzem, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pucem, about the fact that the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, when ordering research, does not comply with the Law on Public Procurement! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The request was rejected. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Protected Service Law”, third reading. Member Jānis Urbanovičs on behalf of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U102	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Protected Service Law”. Four proposals have been developed and accepted. The first two shall be prepared by the commission responsible. They narrow the title according to the wording of the articles, let us say. I therefore call for support to be given to 1. - a proposal made by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U103	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U104	2. is similar and related to the first.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U105	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U106	Then there are very good proposals coming from the Legal Office to the Commission. Both editorials. 3. - Legal Bureau's proposal - we supported it in the Commission. We invite the Saeima to do the same.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U107	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U108	Finally 4. - a proposal by the Legal Bureau, which is a proposal to rule out an indication of the time when the law enters into force. The Commission supports this proposal, and it follows from this that, in accordance with Article 69 of the Satversme, the entry into force of this law will depend on the announcement by the President of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U109	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U110	I invite you to support this draft law in the second...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U111	... at third reading. Third!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U112	... third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U113	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protected Services” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to law on technical supervision of dangerous equipment”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U114	Hello, colleagues! We have received three proposals. Proposal No 1 - the committee responsible's proposal, which provides for... determining the responsibility for any breaches of the technical surveillance of dangerous equipment. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U115	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U116	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Proposal of an editorial nature. Associated with the previous proposal. In determining the responsibility in the preceding Article, it is no longer necessary to specify that responsibility in the next Article. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U117	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U118	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It provides that the procedure for the entry into force of this law... that the new version of Chapter VII of this Law shall enter into force at the same time as the law on administrative liability... The law on administrative liability. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U119	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U120	Thank you, colleagues. I call for support to be given at the final, third, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U121	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Technical Supervision of Dangerous Equipment” third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, against and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to law on conformity assessment”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Arthur Rubik.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U122	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Conformity Assessment” (No. 107/Lp13). There are three proposals in total. 1. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralph Nemir. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U123	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U124	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U125	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U126	And 3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U127	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U128	On behalf of the Commission, please support this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U129	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Conformity Assessment” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Documents”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Arthur Tom Ples.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U130	Hello, colleagues! In the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy we examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Documents” at first reading. The purpose of this draft law is to amend the law, because in the current situation it is in fact impossible to transfer information to another reliable certification service provider. The draft law is designed to ensure that, if the LVRTC ceases its activities, all information is passed on safely to another service provider. The draft law at first reading was endorsed by the Commission. I call for support to be given at first reading here, too, in the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U131	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Documents”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U132	The deadline for submitting proposals is 24 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U133	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 24 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection and Management of the Marine Environment”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Arthur Tom Ples.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U134	We examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection and Management of the Marine Environment” at first reading. This draft law concerns decoding. This law takes over two articles from the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations, which provides for application of administrative penalties for pollution of the sea from ships and terminals, as well as violation of restrictions and prohibitions on diving at sea. These infringements are considered dangerous and contrary to the public interest because they constitute, or are likely to constitute, a danger of environmental pollution. I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U135	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on the Protection and Management of the Marine Environment"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U136	October 17th.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U137	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 17 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Seeds and Varieties”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U138	Hello, colleagues! See the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Seeds and Varieties” at second reading. 14 editorial proposals were received. 1. is the proposal of the Legal Office. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U139	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U140	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U141	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U142	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U143	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U144	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U145	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U146	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U147	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U148	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U149	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U150	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U151	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U152	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U153	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U154	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U155	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U156	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U157	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U158	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U159	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U160	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U161	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U162	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U163	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U164	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U165	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U166	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U167	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Seeds and Varieties”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U168	October 17th of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U169	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 17 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Plant Protection Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U170	The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined and prepared for consideration by the Saeima at the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Plant Protection”. Taking into account the necessary amendments regarding the decoding of the Latvian administrative infringement system and the determination of violations in sectoral laws, the draft law was drafted by the Ministry of Agriculture and prepared to regulate administrative liability in the field of plant protection and plant quarantine from 1 January 2020. For the second reading, 11 proposals were submitted in the draft law. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Clarifying the title of Chapter VI of the Law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U171	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U172	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The title of Section 20 of the Law shall be specified in editorial terms. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U173	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U174	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The title of Section 21 of the Law shall be revised. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U175	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U176	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The title of Section 22 of the Law shall be revised. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U177	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U178	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The title of Section 23 of the Law shall be revised. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U179	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U180	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The title of Section 24 of the Law shall be revised. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U181	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U182	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The title of Section 25 of the Law shall be specified in editorial terms. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U183	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U184	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The title of Section 26 of the Law shall be revised. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U185	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U186	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The title of Section 27 of the Law shall be specified in editorial terms. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U187	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U188	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U189	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U190	11. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau which excludes the previous indication of the time of the law's entry into force. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U191	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U192	All the proposals have therefore been examined. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U193	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on plant protection law. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U194	The deadline for submitting proposals is 17 October this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U195	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 17 October this year. Dear colleagues, Members Strike, Dzintars, Pavluts, Pucens and Adamovich ask for the Saeima to continue its sitting without interruption until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. We're going on without a break. On the agenda - Draft Law on the Market in Financial Instruments Act, second reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U196	Hey, colleagues, again! Second-reading bill "Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments". We have received 14 proposals. 1. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U197	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U198	2. - the proposal of the Minister for Finance, which provides for a regulation... the implementation of the new regulation by law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U199	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U200	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Finance, which is a editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U201	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U202	4. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is editorial in nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U203	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U204	5. - a proposal from the Legal Office, which is also editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U205	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U206	6. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is editorial in nature. Supported and included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U207	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U208	7. - a proposal from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, which therefore includes a proposal from the Legal Office. The Commission is supported. Head of the sitting. Members are in favour. 8 / 8 - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is editorial in nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U209	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U210	9. - a proposal from the Legal Office, which is also of a technical nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U211	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U212	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Finance, which is a editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U213	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U214	11. - the proposal of the Minister of Finance to bring an extension of this law... extends this law to the provisions of the Regulation. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U215	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U216	12. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U217	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U218	13. - the proposal of the Minister of Finance, which is also a editorial nature. Commission supported and...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U219	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U220	... and included 14. - the Commission's proposal. And 14. - the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U221	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U222	I call on Members to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U223	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U224	The deadline for submitting proposals is 24 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U225	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 24 October this year. Draft Act Amending the Law on Credit Institutions, second reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U226	We have received six proposals for the second reading. 1. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U227	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U228	2. - the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which is a editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U229	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U230	3. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is a technical clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U231	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U232	4. - a editorial proposal by the Minister of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U233	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U234	5. - a proposal from the Minister of Finance. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U235	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U236	And also 6. - a proposal from the Minister of Finance. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U237	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U238	I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U239	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Credit Institutions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U240	The deadline for submitting proposals is 24 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U241	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 24 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Energy Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Atis Lejiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U242	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues! Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Energy Act’ (No. 411/Lp13). Good news - we will adopt with this law another measure to strengthen Latvia's independence and prosperity. ( Internouncing call.) With this draft law, Latvia... united in the Baltic... A common market for gas could be said to be. This gas market already has... Estonians and Finns have already adopted the relevant laws. Consequently, Latvia will have a common gas market with Finland and Estonia. What does that mean? This means that there will be the same tariffs on gas entering, no matter which country, and also on exit. Fees for that... and there will be no tariffs between countries. There will be a bigger market, we will be able to buy gas cheaper. We will also invite Lithuania to join. Lithuania is still... Negotiations are under way with Lithuania. The Baltic Assembly will meet in November... The Latvian delegation has also proposed to invite Poland. What does that mean? Poland, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia and Finland - single gas market. Come on, let's see what it's like! Of course, this is just one step that we have done in recent years. It doesn't happen in a single day. Synchronization from Russia is also taking place. It will be 2025. Will be Rail Baltica in 2025. We can already sell electricity... and buy from Sweden. Progress on integration: reintegrating Europe. I proposed adopting this law today as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U243	The Commission therefore proposes that the draft law be declared urgent. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on energy law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U244	Thank you. Urgent... Or... I propose that you send the proposals by 14. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U245	... at first reading. The Commission calls on the draft law to be supported at first reading. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Energy Law". Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U246	14 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U247	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 14 October this year. Thank you. Timing of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U248	October 17th.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U249	October 17th. Thank you. So consideration at the Saeima sitting - on 17 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U250	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U251	The order of business - the Bureau reports. ‘ On own-initiative proposals submitted’. Members Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla, Ritvars Jansons, Vita Anda Steela, Regina Ločmele-Luņova, Mārtiņš Šteins, Inguna Ribena, Armands Krauze, Artuss Kaimiņš, Ēriks Pucens, Ramona Petraviča, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Evita Zālīte-Grosa and Andrejs Judins have submitted a draft decision on the admission of Karel Mark Shišonas to Latvian citizenship for special merits in favour of Latvia. In line with the parliamentary order, this own-initiative proposal should be referred without debate to the Commission for Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity. Thank you. The order of business - under the heading 'Review of notifications'. ‘ On administrative punishment of Members of the Saeima’. ‘Members subject to administrative penalties shall be subject to the conditions laid down in this Regulation and shall be subject to the conditions laid down in this Regulation. On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - Member Janina Jalinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U252	Good afternoon, honourable and honorable colleagues! The Administrative Violations Accounting Unit of the Information Centre of the Ministry of the Interior has provided information about administratively punished Members between 24 April of this year and 3 September of this year. Reportedly under the administrative responsibility of the Criminal Register: Uldis Budriķis. A decision has been taken in the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau on the basis of Section 166.28 of the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia (non-compliance with the Procedure for Execution of Establishment Restrictions) and Section 166.30 (infringement of restrictions and prohibitions imposed on a State official). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 2 July this year. Jānis Dūklavs. A decision was taken in the Patrol Police Division of the Order Police Office of the State Police on the Second Part of Section 149.24 of the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia (on the use of a vehicle in road traffic for which no compulsory civil liability insurance of its owner has been performed). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 14 August this year. Anita Muižniece. Chapter 4 of the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs adopted a decision according to Section 187 of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code “Injury of a Direct Identity Document, Late Storage (Sun Noise). (See the box below.) or use of a personal identification document for which a new personal identification document has been issued’, second paragraph. Suitable warning. The Decision entered into force on 6 August this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U253	Dear colleagues, So we have heard the announcement. The agenda of the sitting was examined. I must inform you about the answers to Members' questions scheduled today. On the question of Member Zarina, Agešina, Rubika, Krišanas and Pimenov, the Minister of Justice Janis Bordans “On the Rule of Law of the Government’s Decision and Understanding of the Principle of Justice of the Republic of Latvia”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that due to previously planned work arrangements no oral answer can be given. Member of the Ministry of Welfare of Klementyeva, Agešina, Rubika, Krišana and Zarins “On failure to act by the Ministry of Welfare without applying personal income tax relief in full, including disability relief, without complying with the requirements of the law”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that due to previously planned work activities it is not possible to arrive for an oral response. On the question of Member Stepanenko, Liepāja, Smita, Sprūde and Gobzem, Minister of Finance Janis Reirs, On Draft Law No. 344/Lp13 ‘Amendments to the Law on Audit Services’ harmonisation process and the information included in the annotation’. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but the oral Members do not wish to ask further questions. Member of the Minister of Justice Janis Bordans “On Recovery of Immovable Property Tax” Sprūde, Stepanenko, Liepiņa, Smita and Gobzem. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but the oral Members do not wish to ask further questions. Member Zariņa, Tutina, Agešina, Kucina and Adamson’s question to the Minister for Health Ilze Viņķelis ‘On information on the limited availability of information regarding the legal basis of the Government’s decision regarding the amount of funding allocated to health care’. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that it is not possible to attend an oral reply due to a working visit to the Republic of Estonia. On the urgent question by Member Zariņa, Orlova, Kabanova, Lochmele-Lunov and Klementyev, Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On the legality of the actions of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers, refusing to provide Parliament with the information requested by its Members regarding transactions carried out by the state-owned company Latvenergo”. The question was addressed to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralph Nemir. No written reply was received. The questioners may not attend or hear the Minister's oral answer. Consequently, on the basis of the first paragraph of Rule 123 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Minister must reply in writing within 48 hours of the Saeima’s meeting. So today, ministers' answers to Members' questions will not happen. New questions have been received from Members. Members Zarins, Krišāns, Rubiks, Ribakovs and Orlovs submitted the question “On the power of executive not to execute a decision of the Saeima”, which we hand over to the Minister of Justice. Members Zarins, Krišāns, Rubiks, Ribakovs and Orlovs submitted the question “On the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers, without performing the task of the Saeima”, which we hand over to the Minister of Justice for reply. Members Zarins, Krišāns, Rubiks, Ribakovs and Orlovs submitted the question “On the actions of the Minister of Justice, ignoring the task assigned to the government by the Saeima”, which we hand over to the Minister of Justice for their response. Members Zarins, Krishāns, Rubiks, Ribakovs and Orlovs have submitted the question ‘On the grounds of voluntary government action’, which is referred to the Minister of Justice for their response. Members Zarins, Krishāns, Rubiks, Ribakovs and Orlovs submitted the question “On the principle of the rule of law and the principle of legality”, which we hand over to the Minister of Justice Janis Bordans to reply. Members Liepiņa, Smits, Sprūde, Stepanenko and Gobzem submitted the question “On the advertising campaign of VARAM”. Name for motivation to Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U254	We have just, recently, banned those regional expenditures so that local government leaders do not advertise themselves so much, but for some time now we have been seeing in the Latvian media how Juris Pūce promotes regional reform. We have some questions, Mr Puce, about the campaign's objectives, about the target group for advertising to which this advertisement is addressed, about the budget and also about the channels used, and some other issues. Also about the information phone, the number of calls, the questions asked... a little statistics we want. If taxpayers' funds are already spent for such a noble purpose. It's about this briefly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U255	Thank you. The question is referred to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pucem for a reply. Members Liepiņa, Šmits, Sprūde, Stepanenko and Gobzems submitted the question “On the situation with the OIC recipient company “Lielmežotne”. Name for motivation to Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U256	Yesterday there was a meeting of the Committee on Petitions, to which representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs were invited. Among other things, it mentioned an interesting fact about the beneficiary of OIC, the company Lielmežotne. The Ministry of Economics pointed out that the Ministry of Agriculture was hindering the possible adoption of a decision concerning this plant. Now we will also be interested in how the Minister for Agriculture explains this situation and what is it about such special activities in relation to the company Lielmežotne, which, if I am not mistaken, is in Kuldīga. That's it.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U257	The question is referred to the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard. Members Liepiņa, Šmits, Sprūde, Stepanenko and Gobzems submitted the question “On limiting cash costs for employees of public administrations”. Name for motivation to Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U258	Here we are already trying to divide the situation with the question of third Members about the costs to the State Revenue Service staff for payment cards and account maintenance. It turns out that these compensations are not only received by employees of the State Revenue Service directly, but also received by credit institutions, and therefore we continue to ask questions about credit institutions, what amounts... and also about other public authorities. So this epic with compensation continues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U259	The question is referred to Minister for Finance Janis Reirs. Please call me! Please register the Members! The name to Member Arthur Rubik - for a statement.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U260	Colleagues who wish to cooperate with the Cuban Parliament are kindly invited in the Yellow House to facilitate the cooperation of the parliamentary groups with the Cuban Parliaments immediately.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U261	Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U262	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla, Aldis Blumbergs, Anda Čakša, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Gatis Eglitis, Inga Goldberga, Kaspars Ģirgens, Inese Ikstena, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Rihards Kols, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Ainars Latkovskis, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Anita Muižniece, Linda Ozola, Ramona Petraviča, Mārtiņš Staķis, Jānis Tutins and Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-10-PT13-2012-U263	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
