ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. Let us begin the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 29 May this year. On the agenda - Presidential elections. On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - Member Janīna Kursīte-Pakule.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U2	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Honourable candidates for the post of President of Latvia! Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, On 10 May, the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications received documents from Egils Levitas and Jurs Jansons, candidates for Presidential office, and on 13 May – documents from Didžas Šmits, candidate for Presidential office, in accordance with the Law on Election of the President. The Commission requested and received from the Office for Constitutional Protection, the Prosecutor General’s Office, the State Revenue Service, the Office for the Prevention and Combating of Corruption, the Information Centre of the Ministry of the Interior and the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs information on the compliance of candidates for the post of President of Latvia with the provisions of the Law on the Election of the President and, on the basis of the information provided, admits that candidates for the post of President of Latvia – Egils Levits, Juris Jansons and Didzis Šmits – comply with the provisions of the Law on the Election of the President of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U3	Thank you. Let us start a debate. On behalf of the Group of the National Alliance, Mr Raivis Dzintars. Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U4	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, About four years ago, on 3 June 2015, was a sunny, summer day. We met here - also some of us here - in an extraordinary sitting in this very Chamber. I climbed this pub at that time and addressed 12. Saeima Members. Egils Levits, the candidate for President of Latvia, also sat in the guest sector at the time, and I also invited him to support his election as President of Latvia at the time. Both Egil Levit and his supporters were aware of the secret agreement to elect another candidate in a closed vote. From the troupe, speaking to the Members, I said at the time: for Egil Levit to be elected, a miracle must happen... The miracle didn't happen. Members were subject to a decision in the back-to-back schemes. I believe Raimonds Vējonis tried to carry out his duties as Head of State well. Something was more successful, but the shadow of how and why Raimonds Vejonis was elected did not disappear. Because the decision-makers did not aim to elect the country's most suitable president. The goal was to demolish Levite. Today is 29 May 2019. But in some way we have returned to the sunny day of June 3, 2015. The citizens of Latvia have wanted us here today to be in a different composition and to be able to correct the mistakes made at that time. The mistake was not to elect President Egil Levit at that time. What should the President of Latvia be? This is how the well-known Latvian poet and playwright Māra Zālīte answers: “He must be one who, representing his country, is able to communicate with both Chinese Caesar and any Latvian citizen at the same time.” Let me give you four reasons why Egil Levit best fits this description. First of all, it is language knowledge. The candidate speaks five languages, of which French, English and German are his daily working language. Secondly, it has a high competence in national matters. As an expert in constitutional law, as a judge of the Court of Justice of the European Union, as a socially active person experienced in the political process, he perfectly understands what he will have to represent. Country. The country has its legal, political, philosophical and also human dimension. Thirdly, it is the ability to formulate opinions logically, structuredly and intelligiblely. Also when it comes to difficult topics. I have witnessed how Egils, with a professional narrative, admires academic intellectuals, such as the Birini Palace Seminars, as well as speaking to first-class students and students. The ability to think in harmony, to distinguish the essential from the minor is a huge Levite short to be able to interest, reason, convince, and finally achieve the goal. Fourthly, and I think that is one of the most important arguments, he knows why he is doing it. Guarantee the existence and development of Latvian nations, its language and culture through centuries. Egils Levit once achieved that purpose of the State of Latvia was recorded in the Constitution of Latvia. May I say that the development of the Latvian nation, its language and culture is also the personal purpose of Egils Levit. Anyone who knows Egils feels that it is his heart problem, that it is the driving force for fantastic endurance and the working power that his colleagues in the professional field are saying about. Only the one who has the heart’s own zeal can set on the hearts of others. Whether it's Chinese Caesar or any Latvian citizen. Dear colleagues, The President of Latvia is not one of many posts. It is a symbol of the country - just like a flag, like a coat of arms, like our anthem. It's the person we stand up for, whose portrait tells students about our choice. This is our country's main person. The person who embodies the message - which we mean today is Latvia. Today, when we first wish the President of our State in the new centenary of Latvia, on my own behalf and on behalf of the National Union, I invite you to entrust this duty to Egil Levit! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U5	Thank you. Development/About! on behalf of the Member, Daniel Pavlut.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U6	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues and colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! In this presidential election, we have had the most qualitative process of nomination and election of the President that has ever existed in the Republic of Latvia. Finally, not only have we, politicians, but also the media and the public had enough time to sanctify candidates from their nomination to today's Saeima vote. Yesterday evening, we had three official, open-ended debates on public television. What is more, today we have an open presidential election guaranteeing a responsible vote from political parties. No secrets, no shoulder twitching and no many significant smiles in the cameras. Often, as the main candidate, and later as the mayor of the President's performance assessment, it is said: "That it shouldn't be ashamed!" That shouldn't be the case. In my opinion, the President must be someone whose views may or may not agree, but who as a person, his views and actions can be appreciated, understood and respected. The criteria laid down in the Law on the Election of the President are quite general for candidates. For those in Latvia, fortunately enough people meet. I believe that they are not enough to elect a honourable President. ‘ Development/About!’ considers that candidates for the post of President of Latvia should be assessed according to a higher standard. The President must be a person who, from day one, is able to carry out his duties effectively, for whom the first or even the entire term of office does not end when he learns to be the President. When you say that you are more imaginary, for whom the “shoes” are right away, not who hopes to “grow in” in them, but you may already not grow up. The President must be a person with a European and global perspective. With the perspective of other European leaders. The President must be a person who speaks both foreign languages and diplomacy and who does so with conviction and self-esteem. The president must be a person who has already proved himself in one or more other spheres of life, serving Latvia independently. It must be a person who will gain extra weight for the important post, not vice versa. These are criteria which must be at the heart of the President's choice, and in the case of Equila Levit, I can answer in a positive way for each of them: both statutory and perhaps in the future, which should still be enshrined in the law. Colleagues! It's not that for Development/About! Egils Levit fully shares views on all issues. Our opinions are quite different, however, we are aware that the President of Latvia must be reparticipant and work in the interests of the whole of Latvian society. This means that no candidate will fully meet the values and objectives of all voters and political parties. After all, the President must be able to implement the principle of balance of powers enshrined in the Constitution. Egil Levit should not be “the President of ours”, but the President of Latvia. Egils Levits has defined social solidarity, promotion of Latvia's membership and development of Latvia towards a modern state as his priorities. These are things that, in our view, are also important for Latvia. We will be happy to cooperate with Egils Levit in the implementation of these priorities - the construction of democratic, inclusive, modern Latvia and its statehood. Today I call on every responsible Member to support the election of the President of the Court of Justice of the European Union to the office of Judge Egil Levit. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U7	Thank you. on behalf of the new Conservative Group, Member Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U8	Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen! Candidates for the post of President of Latvia! On behalf of the new Conservative Group and the new Conservative Party, I want to support the candidacy of the President of the Republic, Egil Levit, because the rule of law is very important for the new Conservative Party. We believe that in Egil Levit we will get a president with whom we will gain a new acceleration of Latvia's development together. As previous speakers have already said, - for a democratic, inclusive and modern Latvia... I thank Mr Dzintara for his historical insight, and I also believe that we represented the public have a public mandate to elect as the president of the person with whom we are proud, who represents Latvia in the best way. It's the man who's in the hall today, and it's Egil Levit. A man with a high international authority. It is a judge of the Court of Justice of the European Union who gives lectures at American universities, who are an honorary member of the Japanese Lawyers' Society. We get the highest level of national law under the professional government of the state. We have to understand that we are a democratic republic, because the triangle of power - the Speaker of the Saeima, who in my opinion is the President of the Saeima, the Prime Minister and the President of Latvia... This triangle of power is very important for a democratic state. I would also like to mark the merit of Egil Levit. I believe that he is best suited to Latvia today, because when our development is under crisis or when our understanding of self-understood (I would even say more radically - self-understood) then... The presence of Egils Levit in Latvia was very important intellectually, restoring our own understanding - who we are. We are no longer afraid of the term "statehood" today. We are not afraid to call ourselves not only a nation, but a nation. And it's thanks to Egil Levite's care and his intellectual presence. It is very important for us to realize that something disappears in our vision of the country. And here are a collection of interviews with Egils Levite, the book entitled “National Gribbing”. Simple, self-evident concepts, but they have disappeared in some way. The President of Latvia gives great dimensions to the whole nation, how to understand yourself in this modern, turbulent age. It is important for us to get such a person under the leadership of the state. Dear colleagues, I call on you today to take a decisive step and do what 12. The family didn't do it four years ago. I call on you to vote for the best candidate for Presidential office, Egil Levit. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U9	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Greens/ Farmers' Union, Member Armands Krauze.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U10	Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! Highly honored candidates for the post of President of Latvia! Today, we all have to make a very important decision. We, Members of the Saeima, will vote in favour of one of the three Presidential candidates. And for the first time, this vote will be open. It brings additional responsibility and, I must admit, it also raises concerns as to whether everyone, especially I look at the coalition Members, will vote in their best conscience! Will the will of the Members themselves and those of the citizens who have chosen them as their Presidents be stronger than coalition discipline? The Union of Greens/Farmers has nominated Juris Jansons as President of the State. The Ombudsman, who is already working for the second term of office. We believe that the candidate we lead is worthy of a high position and will be able to represent everyone in Latvia in good faith. This is illustrated by the work of Juris Jansons so far, the study of social issues and many important social developments. Juris Jansons has been able to raise the institution of the Ombudsman in his new capacity and has not been afraid to object to either the Saeima, the government or state or municipal institutions, defending the interests of different groups of society and updating painful or uncomfortable issues. Dear colleagues, There have been several discussions in both the Saeima and society and in its individual groups about what the President of Latvia should be. Does the President only perform the functions of a national symbol and play a certain role in the areas of security and legislation? We, the Union of Greens and Farmers, are convinced that the responsibilities and opportunities of the President of Latvia are much broader. The oath by the President of Latvia to take office includes the words: “... all my work will be dedicated to the benefit of the people of Latvia. I will do everything I can to promote the welfare of the country of Latvia and its citizens.” The President of Latvia, of course, represents Latvia internationally, promotes our recognition and defence of Latvia's interests. These are important and highly responsible areas, while the role of the President of Latvia in internal politics is no less important. Especially right now. The President of Latvia has a legislative right. No less important - as a political or state leader, the President of Latvia can update and brighten important issues for every Latvian citizen, actively involved in solving them, proposing the convocation of parliamentary sittings or even extraordinary government sittings. Listening to our leading candidate Juris Jansons' vision of possible priorities, he very much appreciates his emphasis on issues of internal policy, both social issues and ensuring equal opportunities for all Latvian citizens. I also agree with Jur Janson's vision that the President of Latvia should be the ally between political power and society, because the gap between the two is great. I believe that Juris Jansons, as the Ombudsman, has proved that he is capable of becoming such a connecting force. Colleagues! The Union of Greens and Farmers calls on every Member to consider again today, by making a mark in the voting ballot - what is the President for Latvia and its people? A president who represents and defends anyone, or the President of a people or the President of a coalition, who, in fact, is not elected but appointed to office without discussion? I invite you to support Juris Jansons as President of Latvia! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U11	Thank you. on behalf of the Group. - Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U12	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. I ask for the speaking time to be joined up.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U13	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U14	High honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, for a large part of our people and also our fellow Members, it is a sense of determination. Mr Kariņš is increasingly moving away from the state, land and nation, and since the Saeima elections, he is overcoming any law, even the gravity of physics. But before commenting on this supernatural phenomenon of Karin's government, I want to address one important issue. The coalition has its own presidential candidate. Debate, competition, democracy - all these words are empty and foreign to the coalition. The question is, how does the coalition choose its presidential candidate? In my opinion, the coalition philosophy on this issue is very well described by an anecdote, once told by a constituents with a life experience. An untrustworthy wife is asked what would be the ideal man for her? She answers: “A blind, deaf sailor.” Dear colleagues, From the point of view of the coalition, the further the President of the Republic of Latvia is from the land and nation of Latvia, the better. From the coalition's point of view, the worst possible President of Latvia is one who is well aware of what is happening in our country, who knows the people of Latvia. And, of course, it might be even worse to know the part of the Latvian people who are non-Latvians. Because it is such a president who will intervene most in coalition life and, if God does not give it, he will do it successfully. From the coalition's point of view, the President's main function is to serve only as the external front of the country. This philosophy is also embodied in the Presidential Palace - a beautiful facade hides an ugly back, on which probably questions arise to the Bureau of State Control of Construction. The departure of the working population, the disappearance of regions, low birth rates, poor education, so-called free health care, unrepared roads for decades, little pensions, low economic growth - a coalition would like the next president to be as far away from it as possible. But, honourable colleagues, the most dangerous quality, from the point of view of the coalition, is the tolerance of the presidential candidate and the genuine desire for dialogue. The coalition has nothing more dangerous than the president, who could put the so-called red lines at risk, who could start asking questions about why at least one third of Latvia's population has been politically isolated since the restoration of independence. The coalition has nothing more dangerous than the president, who would be prepared to engage in dialogue with non-Latvians according to real, Christian values, such as: “You will love your neighbor as yourself.” Their coalition will not forgive any presidential candidate, as it will threaten the monopoly of the coalition power. For all their authority, all their positions are based on red lines and on society... political isolation of one third of Latvia's society. Instead, the coalition needs a candidate for the rights of gender and sexual minorities, but in no case for equal treatment of people of other nationalities. The coalition needs a candidate to clearly mark the role of non-Latvians in Latvian society. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the coalition needs a presidential candidate to fly in heaven. When selecting the candidate for President of Latvia, Kariņš coalition wants to be as far away from the ground as possible. There is, by the way, a foreign word that very accurately describes this phenomenon. Dear colleagues, this foreign word is "levitation". Mr Levit probably doesn't even know what supernatural political flights he might want to use this coalition. But, honourable colleagues, I would like to pay real respect to two people who found their own strength and desire to stand as President of Latvia on behalf of the principles. Most likely they have no hope today, but they encourage every citizen of Latvia to hope and act, take responsibility for themselves and others. Mr Janson and Mr Schmidt, you have the greatest assurances of respect for your courage and openness in this election process from my group and my group! Today, it is true not to those chosen by the coalition, but to those who find the power to join in and fight for principles and true values. Perhaps today is not the day when brave and true will win, but today is the day when brave and true have raised their head. Dear colleagues, Latvia needs a president who respects others and also accepts different opinions, who is able to inspire pride in his country for everyone and unify society on the basis of common values. The President, who believes that cultural diversity is the wealth of the state. A president who has taboos forbearance and incitement to hatred, not mathematics in Russian. Today, we are going to give our votes in favour of the candidate for President of Latvia, who is the most representative of these qualities. ( Internouncing call.) But, of course, no elected President will be able to prevent any coalition from coming closer to the land and the people. The President, who will do this, will cause great disappointment to the coalition, but will take a step closer to becoming a president elected by the people of Latvia. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U15	Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U16	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Presidential candidates! Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Four years ago, with the participation of the President of Latvia for the first time and inviting colleagues to support Mr Levit, I reminded Members that being among the people whom the Latvian people have entrusted the choice of the next President of Latvia is a great privilege that voting means not only a choice for the President for the next four years, but also a vision of the future of Latvia's state and society. The Saeima has changed, but the principles that I take into account this day, and which I call on you fellow Members to think about, are the same as four years ago. The post of President of Latvia is deeply symbolic. I do not think too often of the repeated statement that the President of Latvia has only a representative role. All the most important decisions and activities of the President of Latvia have always had an open story about the country in which we live. The President symbolically brings us together and represents us all, our confidence and our various lives, our greatest achievements and our most brightest ideas, our failures and our most ambitious goals, all uniting us together in the whole, which we call our people. The Latina of the President's Institution is high, its prestige and reputation were strongly strengthened by the first President of the independent Republic of Latvia Jānis Čakste and the future Presidents of Latvia, who were clearly aware of the high criteria on the basis of which they were elected. Without great formal power, but with enormous symbolic authority, to be able to unite the state and nation with their attitude, their conviction, their foothold and their words and carry its name in the world is a task with which the President of Latvia must be able to deal. When choosing the President, we do not choose a candidate from that party or from another party or from a Member. We choose a leader - one who we view with pride and respect, one who makes us bold and strong, who will help keep our backs in the winds of direct change and who will always be faithful to those who own the country of Latvia. Egil Levit has proved himself to be such a respected candidate. A European patriot of Latvia, who is aware of and embodies and shows the values that are important to all of us - democracy, justice, the rule of law, security. Colleagues! Many of you hold a Membership for the first time and will decide for the first time today on the future of Latvia by electing a new President of Latvia. It is an opportunity and privilege that is rare in their lives. Our joint task is to elect the person for the next President of Latvia who has the ability and desire to honour the promises contained in the President's oath for us. We have to elect the President with whom we will be proud... to spend the first year of Latvia's second centenary. Remember that today we make a serious choice, by which we define for ourselves and for society how we design policies and how we continue to shape them - cynical, to talk... a policy based on a vision of a prosperous and sustainable future of Latvia. Each of your voices is your portrait at the same time. For in fact, the President of Latvia - these are us. Our chosen Head of State will reflect our confidence and values. And, to say that, I am calling for the candidacy of Egil Levit as President of the Republic to be supported. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U17	The name to the Member is Att Zakaitistov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U18	I'd love to unite both times.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U19	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U20	Dear colleagues, Dear candidates for the post of President of Latvia! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the political party KPV LV Group Group core, I would like to express my support for Egil Levit. Our group's decision on this is not easy. This has been the subject of public debate often, so I would like to explain how we in the political group came to this decision. For the first time, we met Mr Levit when he was the only nominated candidate and was involved in a very difficult competition - either Egil Levit or perhaps the non-existent ideal President of Latvia. And in this respect, Egil Levit lost. Our group Members did not see him as the ideal President of Latvia. We tried within the group to bring forward our candidate. We talked to Dr. Allen Butkevič, we spoke to Ombudsman Janson, but within the group we were unable to agree on one candidate. Second time we met Mr. Levit when he was one of the three candidates. And listening to Mr Levit, listening to Mr Janson, knowing and well-known Mr Schmidt, we came to our own choice. And now I will explain why we came to this very choice. With his work, Mr Levit will now bring to Latvia a moral dimension - respect and moral dimension, which makes it possible to see our nation in a millennia. The preamble to the Constitution is the context in which we are looking at our President at the moment. And the definition of its moral dimension is very simple: for a thousand years our nation has existed, for a thousand years we have lived as a nation, struggled with difficulties, and we as a nation have a duty to survive at this point. The grand Schmit candid is very well known to us. What Mr. Schmidt is proposing is an economic envelopment in the best sense of the word. In his rhetoric he even uses the youthful expression, which is very important for our country: “Latvians, go to the sea!” Didzis Schmidt speaks in his communication as an outstanding Minister for Economics. And for us as a group, this is a painful issue because he was nominated as an economic minister from among us, but unfortunately he did not accept this challenge. If we compare Latvia at this moment... and look at what is necessary for Latvia - whether it be a moral dimension and respect, or an economic envy - both things are important. But there's our third candidate. And again, in the best sense of the word, Mr. Janson is like a diligent thief who can shame... Decently shame officials and politicians who do not do everything possible to reduce poverty in Latvia. This was our choice. At various stages in the history of Latvia, a thief, a shamer, a judge could be useful. In different stages in the history of Latvia it could be useful to have an economic envy. But we believe that this stage in Latvia is a phase of dignity and moral compass. We, Latvia, are like a waving sea. Europe is changing, our country is changing, but what we need is a lighthouse so that we can navigate in these difficult times. I would like to say a few more words about the formation of our group's core. These have been difficult times for our group. But I stand here before you, the public and my cooperation partners, and I say that the core of the political party KPV LV will vote as one. Please support Egil Levit as the presidential candidate. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U21	The name to the Member Martyn Stackey.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U22	Highly honored Chairman of the Saeima. Honourable candidates for the post of President of Latvia! Dear colleagues, Colleagues! As a person who is not used to political outskirts, it is difficult for me to understand the surrounding speech that any Member who previously expressed a public commitment to support the candidate for President of Latvia Egil Levit could do otherwise today. To me, to be honest, it will give a little bit of blood, because I think today there is a test of reputation, not only for the presidential candidates, but also for us as a newly elected parliament. I think we can show the public today that we are fulfilling our public commitment and wanting the best of the three candidates. I think it's Egil Levit. I very much hope that today we will show the public that we can elect the President of Latvia without the usual political intrigues that we have had before. The whole country is looking at us. I very much hope that those who have said one earlier but will do different things today will also be able to explain why this has been the case. And I very much hope that this is not the case. I will vote in favour of Egil Levit and I can also promise it on behalf of our group. We will be voting in favour of Egil Levit today. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U23	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U24	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Highly honored presidential candidates! Colleagues and everyone who follows the sitting! Four years ago, there is no doubt that this sitting was not as convincing as it was today. I think it was not clear to any of the speakers what the outcome would be, and the vote did not come to an end in the first round. There were a lot of intrigues, during the negotiation session. I remember it all very vividly, but somehow we got to the end. The Saeima voted that this time we will vote in public for the President. In this way, of course, we are moving up the bar of democracy. Personally, I also very much want to see a democratic line being built so that this day can pass without intrigue and that the competition between the presidential candidates is such that the whole society can find out which candidate is the best, so that there is enough time to do so. Unfortunately, however, these desires and expectations have been destroyed. For let us be realistic, there has always been a fight by political parties for seats in the European Parliament. They have now come to an end, and now these discussions on who will be the best president... time has been given - two days... and (interoperable names of members of the UK Group.) ... Unfortunately, the coalition did not support the opposition proposal for this debate to take place on 5 June. This question has been postponed. In my opinion, this is not the best way we get to the presidential candidate. Speaking of the candidates themselves - indeed all the respect for all three candidates! However, we should be President, who is more involved in matters of internal policy - our country, Latvia, the people - here on the ground, so that our country, Latvia, does not lose its identity... not only as a Latvian... but also from the regions, from the cities, from the counties, from the places where they come from... so that our country, Latvia, residents not only in the big centres, but also in the regions would be convinced that their children will be at a reachable distance in the school, leaving the normal way. I believe that whatever will be elected President today, President on these internal policy issues, on these identity issues... Looking at what reforms have now been announced in the country... should be very actively involved, should not look beyond these processes and should express their views and should be a participant in these processes. So, colleagues, I invite you to vote for your conscience today. ( From the UK Group: “Well, come on! ” ) Let us vote for the best candidate of those who have been nominated today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U25	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U26	Dear President, Honourable Members! To know who is the best candidate, a small comparison. Many of you do not know that Gunara Meierovica was to be the first President of Latvia to restore independence. In 1993 there was even an agreement with both the People's Front and the newly created "Latvian Road" as well as with the LNNK that everyone would support Gunārs Meierovics. Why not? I'll tell you. Because the Free Latvian World Association had promised to support the LNNK... including the proposals submitted... on the fact that citizenship cannot be a new law, but must continue to be the same law adopted by the People's Council in 1919... and that 700 thousand colonists can only be issued temporary residence permits per year. Those authorisations are subsequently extended. During the meeting in Jurmala, at night, it was agreed that the Free Latvian World Association will support the “Latvian Way”. On the second morning, LNNK met with PBLA leadership and stated: “In that case, we no longer support Gunārs Meierovics, because we do not accept the cooperation of former Communist and KGB agents with the Free Latvian World Association. We will support - together with the Farmers' Union - Gunti Ulmani!” So Guntis Ulmanis as the first president... became president, thanks to this case... Or a wave of them put him in the position of President of the Republic. Overall, he was not a bad president. He had a heavy burden - standing up against international pressure and preventing massive naturalisation, as well as signing agreements on the withdrawal of Russian troops. The only accusation that the Saeima did not support the fourth agreement on social security for Soviet officers, which Guntis Ulmanis signed in Moscow without the authorisation of the Saeima. There were these three contracts. The second president was Vaira Vike-Freiberga, who was elected in 1999. This was also the result of a compromise. Let us remember that Raimonds Pauls was the first and best candidate for us, then Valdis Birkavs, and the new party supported Ingrids Uudris. Of course, we can only mention what would have happened if one of these three candidates had been elected. Vaira Vīķe-Freiberga was elected, with two pluses: one plus - a relatively successful leadership of Latvia's accession process to the European Union and the other plus - membership of NATO. But there were also three minuses. And the minuses were: the first was the multiple non-signation of the KGB law. We see what evil it has done when looking at higher education institutions in Latvia, because there is practically no university led by former KGB agents and judges sitting... and also all processes under the guidance of secret and open agents in the KGB. Second. Vaira Vike-Freiberga drew Latvia into a shameful Iraqn war without a decision by the UN Security Council with various hysterical (Dep. J. Adamson: “But you yourself voted!” )... it didn’t happen without various hysterical trips that “we have promised!” and so on. And the third. The shameful return of Abrene, which actually bordered the country's betrayal, states: if we do not return Abrene, we will not be accepted either by NATO or within the European Union. They were, of course, a clear lie, because Croatia still has no border with Slovenia and Estonia on the border agreement with Russia. In 2007, Valdis Zatlers was elected. Opponent was Endziņš, former secretary of the company of the University of Latvia. I think Valdis Zatlers could also be one of the best presidents who turned out to be amazingly understanding... both Latvian national problems and what evil is done by oligarchi, and he released... Perhaps it is also his greatest merit that he fired the Saeima and ended Latvia's First Party, say, commercial activity in Latvia's policy; this activity fell on non-return. In 2011, Andris Bērziņš was elected, which was very economical. Perhaps he was not representative, but there is in fact no shameful decision against which he could be accused that he had signed it or made it. Raimonds Vējonis, in turn, was the next one to stand and compete with Sergey Dolgopolovs and Egils Levita. ( The box “And Bondar! ”) ) And there we can only mention what kind of outskirts might have happened...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U27	Mr Kirštein, your debate is over. You can ask for extra time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U28	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U29	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U30	Thank you. So, Egil Levit. In contrast to all the previous presidents, Egil Levit is the first in Latvia to say what the state wants. He is the first to express the idea that the Latvian nation expressed its desire to establish this country and that the role of the state is necessary to guarantee the existence of the Latvian nation through centuries, not the existence of other nations, as many imagine. Egil Levit is the first to say that there is a concept of "statehood" and that statehood forms the future in its own country. We have had Prime Ministers and also Presidents of State who have failed to understand not only what the state is, but have also failed to understand, and have often said, that different peoples live here. They have not understood that there is only one nation and different ethnic groups here. It's been even worse. I looked at a few speeches. We have even had prime ministers and presidents of state who have said that there are two communities here and that Latvians are a community living together with the Russian community. So Egil Levit is the first one who doesn't work, the first one who says that we are a statehood, that we are responsible, and only regret that the preamble proposal written by Egil Levit... was much better than what is now incorporated into the Constitution. If you read carefully, then the state is no longer highlighted as such, because it has proved unacceptable for many, even though the state is nothing other than the Latvian people and Latvian citizens, who are prepared to welcome the representatives of any ethnic group in this state, so there is no incitement to hatred, and I therefore call for the vote in favour of Egils Levite. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U31	The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U32	Chairman of the Saeima, I would like to ask for a merger...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U33	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U34	Highly honored Chairman of the Saeima. Dear candidates for the post of President of Latvia! Colleagues and colleagues! And all who follow today's developments in the Saeima! Latvia’s policy, especially on the days when the President of Latvia has to be elected, has become very similar to the series “She lie better”. Politicians, group leaders, other figurants have said one thing, but the result has been another. And it has left a deep injury to Latvian society. A lack of faith in the fulfillment of our promises hits a high wave. There are various fantasys in the media, too, which we will do today or what we will not do today and why. It is painful for me to listen to this because I do not accept such a policy. And we're doing everything to 13. That wouldn't be the case in the family. But it seems that society does not believe us yet. Maybe we still don't believe... In this sense, of course, today's vote is an opportunity to show that our words are in harmony with our actions, in such a simple, understandable way. I would also like to make a small departure from history. I invite you to look back on the day of the President's election... what happened eight years ago. Because it was the day when the request for an open presidential election was made for the first time. This was on 3 June 2011. I don't know if you remember what you did that day. I, along with many hundreds of members of society, was out there, at the Saeima House, protesting against oligarchic power. President Zatler's order had already been issued. 2, and 10. The days of the Saeima were counted. And we came to the Saeima not only with a protest, but also with 10 points - demands for politicians... by 10 points, how to recover the stolen country. The requirement for public elections was one of them. All in all, the execution of 10 points went well, but the presidential election was one of the last to be postponed... At the same time, we use the portal “ManaBalss.lv” about... not about, but exactly 11 914 votes were cast for the President of Latvia to be elected openly. Thank you very much to all those who were with us on the street that day eight years ago, thank you to all those who signed up to the open presidential elections. And thank you 12. The Saeima that passed this law. Today, however, I also hear from my colleagues objections to the open vote. Today, too, we have heard this: it will deny a vote of conscience and will be subject to the dictate of a party. But I want to ask: what is the conscience of politicians who cannot explain to voters what they have done? What is it about conscience?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Why should you do so that you cannot tell your colleagues what you have voted on and why? I will say that it is rather a silent conscience of political lying and intrigue and that that is why we have entered the political ears from which we are now trying to get out. The trauma in the Saeima about the choice of president is so deep that this time, trying to talk about criteria... What we heard from the President... I, like a number of colleagues, have heard the message: let it not be ashamed. Don't be ashamed. Don't be ashamed! Well, that's not the highest line. Today, however, I would like to look at this from the positive side. At least we know what we don't want. And that's the beginning. However, I hope that the candidate we support, Egil Levit, will be able to do more than just this... That he will be able to contribute to the development of Latvia and will be able to successfully represent Latvia beyond its borders. I would like to see President Levit becoming, by his works, not only the president of this government coalition, the president of the entire Saeima, but also the president, who is called by the majority of Latvian society. Colleagues! I call on you to go to the vote by conscience, which is not ashamed to be shown to others! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U35	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U36	Dear Members of the Saeima! Welcome! The office of President of Latvia includes several things: development of foreign policy, where Latvia has important challenges, provision of physical security, where the President of Latvia also plays a major role. Legislative initiatives and legislative discussions adopted by the Saeima. However, it is the President of Latvia who has to face really great challenges. There are thousands and thousands of people in Latvia who work in good faith but are forced to live in actual poverty. There are thousands of people in Latvia who are considered to belong to the middle class, but they do not have the opportunity to buy their dwelling because of high prices. There are thousands of people in Latvia who are Latvian citizens, but they do not believe in their country. There are thousands of people in Latvia who are addicted to various addictions, and the active businessmen earn large, large money. There are thousands of people in Latvia who have got into debt and are without a clear vision of how to get out of them. All this forms a negative background. One of the causes of this negative background that we have reached so far is, in my opinion, the Soviet man who has moved the development of Latvia from the first day onwards. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova’s intermediate call. The thought of this Soviet man - focus on himself, not on the welfare of the whole society - has led to the legal nihilistism for many years, has led to corruption, because it is only normal to cheat your country. ( GREEN'S MEMBERS' INTERPRETATIONS) It has led to distrust for itself, for its neighbor, for its people, for its country. And it is the boring of the Soviet human thought that is one of the greatest and most difficult tasks of the President of Latvia. Not an individual, but the well-being of society as a whole is its own well-being. Not an individual, but the security of society as a whole is the security itself. At a time when society as a whole comes to this consciousness, I think we will also be able to become one of the most prosperous countries in the world. And as Head of State, the President has the opportunity to speed up or slow down this process. The President must be able to inspire society, be able to build confidence in himself, in his own strength. You need to be able to build faith in the forces of your people. For my country. I see only one candidate from these three candidates who is able to build this belief in society. And I hope that the future President, Egil Levit, will also be able to prove this with his work in the coming years. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U37	Name to Member Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U38	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear Presidential candidates! Colleagues! Resurrection! I am one of the youngest Members of the Saeima and will be voting for the President of Latvia for the first time today. I would like to elect a president who can be proud of all the people and myself. I would like to express my support for Egil Levit. I'm personally... I was most inspired by former President Vaira Vike-Freiberga. I don't want to compare, but the actions of Vaira Vike-Freiberga can and should learn. Still, the high latina of Vaira Vike-Freiberga has not been reachable to anyone. I hope that the new President will succeed. Some jobs... or my trip bag to the new president. And there I rely on the reports available on the President's website and what I used to... aggregated... After the works of Vaira Vike-Freiberga... It is, to play an active role in both internal and foreign policies, to promote the strengthening of democracy and institutions, to promote human rights, to untablingly encourage the implementation of judicial reforms and to strengthen the system, to debate the name of Latvia in Europe and elsewhere in the world, to strengthen existing traditions and to establish new ones, as well as to actively convene meetings of the Advisory Council in order to address various issues of importance to Latvia under the President's auspices. The work on strengthening Latvian self-esteem is also very important, especially on the inspiration of Latvian youth. ‘ Anyone who does good can expect good from others,” said Vaira Vike-Freiberga. Late success in the work of the new President of Latvia. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U39	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U40	Hello, honourable candidates for the post of President of Latvia! Colleagues! When I was a little boy, I lived in Soviet times. I remember the demonstrations on May 1, where my parents and I had to go, a number of people... And all these adults were so with irony, and with a smile talked about it. And then, with a little generation coming closer to the teen age, I experienced a time when Latvia regained independence. And for me too, a little boy, it was very exciting. That sense of democracy was something very special. Today, when we wish the President of Latvia, I am very sorry that all three very honourable candidates are placed in conditions that remind me of that period, my childhood, remind me of the times when Brezhnev or Andropov was elected as the Head of State or the time... the way in which the President of Russia was elected - that there is one candidate and the others are statistics. It does not seem to me to be a democratic process. In my opinion, we must remember what the will of the Latvian Parliament was then - the real will. The true will of the Latvian Parliament was expressed in 1934. Unless the coup d'état on 15 May, the Latvian Parliament adopted an amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia at the third reading on 16 May 1934 and today we... wish the President of the People of Latvia. Today, the President of Latvia would be elected by Latvian society. And that would be the best. The President of Latvia should not be the president of the coalition, but the president of the Latvian people. And that is the task that this Parliament has to do and that the next President of Latvia has to do. The President of the Latvian people is not a foreign body, but a real democracy - a democracy to which Latvia must also seek. Today's speeches... I agree... In many ways, the compliments expressed to one or the other candidate can be accepted, but today's speeches remind the Soviet time, because the President of Latvia should not have an icon. And just recently, the President of Ukraine said: “Do not hang my portraits in schools and offices on the wall, but value me for your works!” I think that, in today's speeches, we should ask the President of State what he should do. In my view, the main tasks of the President of Latvia for the following years are as follows. First and foremost, the President of Latvia must not be presumptuous, vigorful and live with a sense of superiority or in the Themis clouds, detached from the everyday problems of the people and the people. The President of Latvia must not only understand and speak foreign languages, but above all understand and speak the language of the people. He needs to talk about the people. Our President of Latvia must be someone who is not the president of the coalition, but is capable of disrupting the usual peace of the coalition, who, after being elected, is able to say that there can be no persons extradited to prosecute the positions of the Ministry of Justice; that there can be no persons in the positions of the Ministry of Finance who will immediately extradited to prosecute possible financial crimes. It must be a president who is so brave to say that there can be no parliament that allows decisions on OICs not to be carried out, because it is not legal, and that there can be no Prime Minister who deals with the building of the former ‘Pionieri’ cinema (Interview.) and Russian money is questionable. Our President must be able to show you a couple more things... That is why I will ask for extra time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U41	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? Objection... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “There is already!” ) And objections? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. ( The box “Yes! ”) ; “No!” ) Are there any objections? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U42	President...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U43	Just a minute! Colleagues, one moment! Are there any objections? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: ‘Yes!’ ) In that case, we must vote. Please call me! Let us vote for bringing together the two times of the debate for Member Aldim Gobzem! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 73, against - 3, refrains - 2. So please continue!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U44	The President must have the challenge of ensuring parliamentary control over the services, not the control of the services of the parliament, so that our Parliament is not similar... as in Russia, where, for example, the main representative of the political opposition cannot become a presidential candidate. Our President must implement the policy that he is available to our society. He must be accessible to our children and young people, and must also be active in social networks. Our President must be the one who intervenes in the sleepy work of the Saeima, that is, the parliament, and the main thing must be to promise the President's oath: to do everything possible for our people to live in prosperity. It is essential for our President to come with legislative initiatives that enhance the well-being of our people, and I would like to stress that... Of course, today's congratulations to Mr Levit for his election, I would like to stress that the preamble is not the only and decisive means of living well-being for the people of Latvia. These are other instruments, and the President is exactly who can implement them. In today's circumstances, I would like to thank you very much and to show great respect for the other two candidates, Juris Jansons and Didzim Schmidt... Thanks to which core of KPV LV... many people not known at all today are here in the parliament... They both agreed to stand for debate on presidential candidates at all (from the UK Group: Time!) ), and that is why I want to thank them very much. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U45	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U46	I would ask you to combine the two times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U47	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U48	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear candidates for the post of President of Latvia! This is a long-awaited and historic moment. And not only because we wish the President of Latvia today, but also because this moment, in my opinion, marks a serious political cultural change. The opposition constantly reminds us: where is that new policy? I'll tell you where the old policy is and where the new policy is. If we look at the old politics, or how it's all the time... as previously elected presidents in the restored Republic of Latvia, then we can look at the presidents who have been elected in zoos, we can look at the presidents who will save at the X hour, as we hear in the "Rīdzene"... We can also look at the less ancient past - we can look back on the previous presidential elections, in which convincing... Mr Levit won all the debates and all the public surveys or... Mr Bondara was in the second place or another place. And only somewhere else was there... the current President... or the fourth candidate... Today, I think we will make our decision on completely different principles. Not according to the principles that have happened so far. Today we will make our decision, first of all looking at how a candidate can represent us, how he embodies, say, a personality that people would like to be like. And if we are talking about Egils Levit, then I can definitely say that one of the best qualities of Egils Levit - he has long and constant demonstrated that he is working for the Latvian state. Not just for your own good, not just asking for something else concrete opposite, but... working specifically for the state, he embodies the word “statehood”. I am also convinced that the candidate, Mr Levit, will be sufficiently capable of representing us in an international environment. Here one of the most important qualities is, in my opinion, the experience of the world to work at a high level and to communicate at a high level on a daily basis. This experience is one of the qualities that Egil Levit must have. He shall be a judge to the Court of Justice of the European Union. He knows how to communicate with people at the highest level, and he is not afraid to do so. It has to be said that all this old policy is in the order of Presidential election: that was one of the reasons that led me to engage in politics in general. That is why I am very pleased and very pleased to stand here today, and I will have the great honour of taking this decision and voting the really best presidential candidate. More recently, Prime Minister Kariņš announced financial “capital repairs”. In my opinion, it would be even more important to start repairs of the capital to restore the confidence of the people to the state of Latvia, to restore confidence to the Saeima, and to restore confidence to the President of Latvia. Today, colleagues, we have the opportunity to do so. I call on all of you to support Egil Levit as President of State. God bless Latvia! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U49	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U50	Hello, dear colleagues! Hello, honourable Presidential candidates! Ladies and gentlemen, I have not heard from you any candidate whom you could delegate to this election phase of the President. That wasn't the case. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zariņš’ intermediate call.) Some time ago, there was a certain Baptist pastor, but now there is no more. Where is that courage? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova’s intermediate call. I am very interested in what you will then vote on today, because finally we will vote openly in the Latvian Saeima. Finally, there will be no more as four years ago when Nils Ushakov came to the third round of votes and arranged the votes in such a way that the President, who is today, was elected. Finally, it's open! ( GREEN'S MEMBERS' INTERPRETATIONS) What I would like to say to Latvia - we are ready to vote in the Saeima for the first time... The whole of Latvia, which has voted in favour of from 100 Members, will finally be seen. But... Here I have heard a lot of accusations... It is about the need for a nation-elected president. I believe that we are not yet ready for a people's elected president. And the example of this is that Nils Ushakov and Andris America are in the European Parliament. This is a very good example of this. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Agešins: “Think better about yourself! ” ) I think that if Aivars Lembergs had been elected president of the nation, maybe he could take the Riga Castle? Or maybe Nils Ushakov and Mr Lemberg, let's take... In this case, I think that you, all Members, will take your vote and then respond to the people who have elected you, who have supported you. You will respond by your open vote. ( Milestones.) Another point is that there was no time to get to know the candidates. I don't know. Every four years, Mr. Levit... has been on the political platform all the time... He has constantly presented himself. Mr Janson is a well-known person in society and has presented himself. I do not understand, however, why, Mr Gobzem, you yourself did not stand up for it? After all, you have all the qualities that you named from the platform. Socket, isn't it? These are the things. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Four years ago you wanted a nation-elected president! What has changed? The criminal procedure has influenced your opinion? Criminal procedure or Meroni?’ ) I therefore think that, Mr Schmidt, you are once again dropping the mandate of the Minister for Economic Affairs. Now you're sitting... from the ‘KPV LV’ party... No, we haven't delegated you... You're sitting... and you're going to the President's post. You can do so, of course, to push yourself some way up recognition in terms of the duck, and that is, of course, interesting. Maybe that's what you need, because you don't know how to go. But the fact that Members are told in the Saeima so little yeasts and intrigues that now Levit will come, will release the Saeima... or, or! And where do you make logical thinking? When we voted in favour of Karina, because it was the last option to keep the government in order to have a safe state... Think of who is the first to have a different vote here today... Mr Levite, I am fully convinced that you will receive the necessary votes today. I am sure Mr Janson would hardly forgive the Saeima, but I am not absolutely sure about Mr Schmidt. Mr. Smith, you could fire the Saeima, wouldn't you? What happens when the Saeima is fired? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “You wouldn’t be in there anymore, Neighbouring. Right!” ) Then SASKY gets more votes for itself, ZZS gets more votes, Dana Reizniece-Ozola is immediately improving the mood, and we are again in this whirlpool intrigue. “ And you can go home at all! That's absolutely right!' ) I very much like all these dissipations here at this point, because that is already the truth. Let's vote openly! We see who has voted. He won't come, I won't take a vote. And we will be voting again in four years' time! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzems said, “But in four years' time you will not vote anymore!” ) If necessary, it may be that society will have changed and we will be able to make open popular elections. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Thank you finally, Mrs Mourniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U51	Intergovernmental meetings shall be allowed, but they shall not interfere with the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U52	Mr. Levite, endurance! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U53	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. ( From the UK Group: Oik!) ; “Ok!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U54	Good afternoon, everybody! I would also like to speak today about the rule of law. Today, when you see this show of hypocrisy and arrogance, Mark Twain's words come to your mind: "If there were anything to depend on from the elections, we would not be allowed to participate in them." The public is presented as the Presidential elections. In fact, no elections are already taking place today. The President has been elected for a long time. Today an attempt is being made to illegally legitimise a coalition deal as one of the highest state officials, in violation of the Constitution, in violation of the parliamentary roll. I understand that such statements require evidence, and I have them. And I think the public should know them too. Article 20 of the Satversme explicitly states: “The Saeima Presidium shall convene a sitting of the Saeima if so requested by... not less than one third of the members of the Saeima.” At 14:07 on 9 May this year, the following request from Members of the Saeima was registered: to convene the Saeima sitting and to hold the Presidential elections on 5 June this year. It has been signed by more than a third of the members of the Saeima (I was 34, who signed it). ( Internouncing call.) Contrary to what was set by the Saeima in the Constitution, the Bureau decided not to convene such a meeting - it decided not to consider such a request at all. Contrary to the parliamentary roll of order, such an extraordinary sitting of the Saeima should be convened on the date specified in the request (interim: “Better talk about your candidate!” ), the Saeima Bureau decided on the next day. Here is the (interim call sign.) Presidium of the Saeima Protocol No. 32. This confirms all this. ( Internouncing call.) Thus, today, when we convene this sitting, we are implementing the unprecedented example of nihilism in our country's history: not the rights of an individual or individual Member, but of more than a third of the Saeima's Members, the rights enshrined in the Constitution, are being ignored. Do you yourself, the ruling coalition, understand what kind of bear you are now doing with our future President of Latvia, who has called the rule of law as one of the cornerstones? What kind of bear do you do now to our whole country? And, after all, what kind of bear do you do to yourself? If your promises about the rule of law - they were not the lies you gave to the public so that they would just be in power... Or have we, a society, misunderstood the meaning of uncompromising justice? Does the rule of law mean without compromise - no compromises with the rule of law if it violates your interests? And so you can do what you want, you can appoint what and how you want, you can cancel what you want? No rule of law?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I think the whole society should know why you are doing this today. In your arrogance, you thought it was enough to just put it in your coalition... and for whom to make sure that it is done in a legal way, if you have agreed among yourselves on all things there? Why convene such a sitting on June 5 and observe the provisions of the Constitution? It's gonna be an embarrassment, because somebody that day... He already has a vacation trip, perhaps sitting in prison at that time. And for you that coalition dale can just not get there. Because it's reasonable to think that this is not just one job... The next euro Commissioner will come, then - the President of the Bank of Latvia, maybe - the Prosecutor General... But you can't break it down. You know, you were more nihilistic about the rule of law than the coalitions of the oligarch government did at the time. They did not allow such a clear disregard of the rule of law. Well, if they wanted to scare some of their shells, they first tried to create their legal framework for themselves, so that at least formally they thought they were acting legally. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “And there is rule of law in Riga City Council?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ You don’t even care. You don't even care about the rule of law! If you've managed to put something in your hard-to-lock coalition. Then you forget the principles of the rule of law. You know, earlier, in order for these booths to move, they drove somewhere from the Saeima -- let's say, to the zoo. ( The Room Noise. (See paragraph 4.5 of this Regulation.) You've made this zoo here. That is why I am calling you (The Noise in the Hall. Thank you very much. , the ruling coalition, to stop, to stop this hypocrisy... an illegal farce. If you don't, I... I told you I wouldn't take part in this farce. Thank you. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U55	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time. ( Insight: Reflectors?) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U56	Good afternoon! When I started my speech, I said about these intrigues. And when I listen to today's debate, I absolutely understand that there is a real conviction... and there is really a desire to elect the best president. Such a wish is on the part of the National Union... I could also say that about the New Unity. For the New Conservative Party too, I could say that you really want to elect the best President today. But could I say that about Artus Neighbours? Unfortunately, I cannot say that. Yeah, why are you voting for this presidential candidate? I very much hope that the President, no matter what we elect, will think national and will act national. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U57	Colleagues! We would have had time to break, but the Saeima Bureau has a proposal to continue the Saeima session without interruption. Do Members have objections? ( Milestones.) There is no objection. The sitting is continued without interruption. Name of Member Inese Lībiņš-Egner.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U58	Dear colleagues, As it has been misstated from this troupe that today's sitting convened by the Saeima Bureau has not taken place legally, I would like to inform you that, on this issue, the Saeima Bureau has not only exercised its rights under the Constitution, but also consulted all groups elected by the Saeima. Two meetings have taken place on 13 and 20 May this year, where several dates were discussed in order to clarify the views of all groups elected by the Saeima on when the President of Latvia should be elected. The Saeima Bureau received two applications. One was signed by 34 Members and the other by 45. Some asked for this Saeima sitting on June 5... but I understand that today's main proposer is on unpaid leave... The other 45 asked for a call today, May 29, at 10 a.m. The parliamentary Bureau must balance Members' wishes. Therefore, in order to ensure that this sitting was indeed a good thing to do, the Saeima Bureau heard all the arguments at the Fraces Council. Here, from the parliamentary troupe, to say that the Saeima Presidium would not have called this sitting legally in any way, is a clear irresponsible. Therefore, I really call on you not to use such expressions from the parliamentary tribunal. In addition, let us remember that very recently we have all unanimously amended the Law on the Election of the President of Latvia by extending the period of debate by 10 days, i.e. the time between the day of the submission of the President's office and the day of the Saeima sitting when the President of Latvia is elected. This first time is the longest time since the presidential candidate... submission of candidates until the day of election of the President. The argument that there would not be enough time for the debate is therefore unfounded. When we examined the law on the election of the President in three readings, no Member put forward a proposal that there would be a wish to extend this term further. If there is such a wish, perhaps after four years we can think that we should discuss these candidates for two months; this is also possible. And then we can also regulate this through legislation. The Bureau of the Saeima, however, shall, when convened by the Saeima, take account of the fact that the Saeima is operational so that all political groups are informed of the circumstances, of the considerations. The minority's right to encourage parliamentary sittings is by no means ignored, because this issue - the Presidential elections - is neither the Presidium of the Saeima nor any other... did not wish to prevent the parliamentary session from being convened. The parliamentary sitting is currently taking place, and those Members of the parliament who have considered it important to be present at this sitting are here today. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U59	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U60	Unfortunately, I regret to say that you are misleading now the whole of Latvian society. On 9 May, when this decision was taken, when you received an application from more than one third of the Members of the Saeima, according to which you had to declare an extraordinary sitting on 5 June, you did not. On 9 May, there was no meeting of the Fraces Council, there were no other submissions. ( Internouncing call.) On 9 May, at the meeting of the Saeima Bureau, where you had to take a decision, you did not have one. There was only a request made by 34 Members that the presidential elections should take place on 5 June. In accordance with the legal provisions, you had to make such a decision. Later, you figured out how this could be circumvented. You've come up with this whole story so you can say in some way, "Well, you know, today... Well, that's why... we can do it now, on 29 May, because on 5 June we will not really get there.” So say the truth, as it is! Because, if you had acted legally, according to the Constitution, as the roll of order of the Saeima, this meeting had to take place on 5 June. You haven't done that! Today you do this in violation of the Constitution, in violation of the parliamentary roll of order. And this is shown here in this protocol, which you yourself have signed on 9 May. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U61	Name to Member Armand Kraus for the second time. I'm sorry, Mr. Krauze. You have already taken part in the debate. That was the opinion of the group. Colleagues...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U62	I'm just...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U63	Well, wait. Just a minute! Name to Member Armand Kraus for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U64	Thank you. I'll have a minute too. Yeah, what Mr. Zarin said... Indeed, the shadow of doubt may be over this process, over how the Saeima had announced this sitting and how a document signed by 34 Members on 5 June was put aside. It should be said that, on this principle, the Saeima Bureau was already able to put this application aside and see it next May, and say that we will wish the President in May 2020. Thus, in fact, the Saeima Bureau has, in my opinion, acted wrong and ignored the wish of 34 Members to elect the President on 5 June, so that there is more time for discussion, discussion with the public and hearing the debate of the presidential candidates. For, as you remember, the elections to the European Parliament have so far been in full swing... pre-election debate. In fact, this week, these two days, Monday and Tuesday, were the days on which the public, as well as the political parties, could actually turn to the presidential elections. So that I too think that the principle of equality between all Members and the right of a minority to ask for the possibility of a parliamentary sitting is ignored this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U65	Name to Member Janis Urbanovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U66	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, A huge job has been done before the Saeima... These procedures. The process of appointing Egil Levit has been organised... Perfect... so far. And no one has any doubt - neither for himself, nor for his competitors, no one in this room, no one outside this medicine! - that Egil Levit will be the next president. It's not bad at all. This is not the worst option. I think any Member of the opposition, too... And also those who are not in the Saeima... looks hopefully at his skills that are discussed much. But, fellow Members, it is often the case that when something has been done perfectly and the result has been achieved, then there is no longer any time left and no mind left. Just a laziness. And that is what has happened now. Because of the laxity with which the Saeima Presidium formed this (Interface: “There’s also a saint!” )... Members of the political group expressed their views and remained in minority. ( Internouncing call.) You could also learn from the Riga City Council. (Laughter) Thank you very much. Colleagues, I want to say a few more things - the most important. We all want our country to go better. And if the President goes well, we're all happy about it. But what you did, unfortunately... You didn't... with this lax... that it is enough that the votes have been counted and that the rest is no longer so important... Unfortunately, the procedure in such an electoral process... The Saeima at work is extremely important. We therefore elect the Saeima Bureau, whose task is to organise all our work. Organize, not manage, and rule. This was an example of arrogant rule and leadership: not considered - not seen at all! - 34 Members' proposal. It's not seen! It was put aside - put aside! - as someone who may be seen when it no longer has any meaning. Why am I talking about this? Not because I had some specific anger on those who did. They're... It is not the first time, and apparently they will be more embarrassed to act in a more comfortable way. And less and less... will ignore not only the opposition, but the Latvian society as a whole. This is a bad trend and those who will use this opportunity today will probably be the first victims. But, colleagues, this problem in the handful of stone President Levit will be all four years. This problem with his election procedure, with how impenetrable a parliament has appointed him in a pre-arranged manner, would be very damaging to him internationally and would also not be able, internally, to multiply his opportunities. As a lawyer of law, it is clearer than clear. I'm sorry, Mr. Levite, that you've taken care of your builders and appointers. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U67	Name of the Speaker of the Saeima Ināra Mūrniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U68	Dear colleagues, This is a debate, and I will speak here as a Member. But I'll talk about what we're doing today. We wish the President of State. Dear colleagues, This is both a part of Parliament's activities and a political issue. And, honourable colleagues, the Saeima Bureau has put on the table and tried to balance the interests of all the parties, all the political groups, all the applications we have received from Members. At the same time, however, we feel that this is also a political issue. I am very sorry that this whole day is trying to shadow Latvia with some ingenious problems so that they can be presented politically. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “Why did you do that?” ) Dear colleagues! We received both an application from 34 Saeima Members and an application from 45 Saeima Members to hold elections. The Saeima Presidium is based on the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia and the roll of the Saeima order, and I invite you to get acquainted with Article 19 of the Satversme, which states very clearly: “The Saeima Presidium shall convene sessions of the Saeima and determine ordinary or extraordinary sittings.” Yes, of course, the Saeima Bureau convenes sittings at the request of at least 34 Members. We respect the rights of the opposition, and it is constitutional rights. This application is still on the table of the Saeima Bureau. ( GREEN'S WOMAN'S INTERPRETATION. (Laughter) We called Fraction... ( The ring of noise.) two Fraction Councils, and the minutes of these Fraction Councils are available to all Members as well as to the media. I also call on the media to be more interested in this issue and not to take into account any false, politically-targeted statements today from the parliamentary tribunal. Dear colleagues, I remember... I would like to remind you once again - this is a great day, and the whole Latvian society is looking at Parliament. All eyes are on the parliament today, because Parliament chooses the next President of the State. May all of us succeed in this day! May Latvia succeed this day! God bless Latvia! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U69	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U70	So the debate is closed. I call on Mr Kola to explain the voting arrangements on behalf of the vote counters.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U71	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, It is my duty to explain to you the order of voting which follows. The vote will take place right here - next to the Chamber. When you enter the voting room, please name your name and receive the voting sign. How is it necessary to fill in the electoral sign that you will receive? There will be three candidates for the post of President of Latvia in the ballot paper, and you have to fill in the ballot mark by drawing a prot... stating that you are ‘for’ or ‘for’ the candidate concerned. In view of the experience so far, it has also been shown that 13. In the Saeima, Members are not, as they say, a hundred percent confident that they understand correctly how to fill in electoral marks - because errors have also been made and there are marks that are found to be invalid - we have prepared fairly visible visual material to explain in which cases electoral marks will be declared invalid by members of the committee for counting votes. The first type is as follows: If at the same time a mark is made both for and against... The rhombby, as appropriate... This is the option, that's the sign... So if, let's accept, all the candidates are 'no', but at the same time there is one candidate 'for', then such an election mark will be recognised as (interim call.) invalid. It's useless! I will immediately show you other possible options. However, if a Member still has doubts before the vote as to whether he understands the need to fill in the electoral sign correctly, I call on the representatives of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, which will explain this procedure on an individual basis. The second option is that the vote mark is not recognised as valid. This is when one of the candidates is not marked with a reply either for or against. That's the case... There are three candidates, but one candidate has no ‘for’ or ‘for’. ( The box “Show us also! ”) ; dep. J. Strikķe: “No vote will be taken!” ; Dep. A. Clementjev: “Do not know!” ) In such a case, too, the electoral sign will be invalidated. Third. A different type of mark has been made on the electoral sign. I mean, if there's a minus or a bunch in place of the prot, or the candidate is deleted. Such an electoral sign will be considered invalid. And the end. There are cases where only one candidate can vote in favour. If two candidates or even three candidates are marked as candidates, such an electoral sign will be considered invalid. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Can I please show you the right option?” (Laughter) As I said, you can contact the Legal Office of the Saeima individually if still... if this visually visible material does not give you confidence in how to fill in the ballot papers correctly. Dear colleagues, ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Dear colleagues, On the procedure. After the invitation you will be invited to move to the Voting Room in the first order. There, as I said, you must name a name and receive an electoral sign. Please fill in the respective item in the election drawing... Well, how do you decide... The election urna will be located in the Chamber. At the end of the vote, the results of the vote will be collected and you will be called back to the Chamber. So please be careful and do not delay the time when the sitting will continue. ( Internouncing call.) In addition, we will also state from the tribunal that there are, let us accept, five minutes left to be put to the vote until the vote is closed. I therefore call on the members of the voting commission to move towards the voting room in order to prepare electoral marks. Before... I understand that we also need to publicise the ballot box that is here.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U72	Dear colleagues, please... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Where are you going?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U73	Colleagues, there's a commission... too early... (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U74	Get your seats in the Chamber! Vote counters have not yet asked you to go anywhere. Please make sure that the procedure is followed. Colleagues, wait a minute!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U75	And, of course, the most important thing is also to check the election boxes...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U76	Colleagues, come back to the hall! Be so kind! ( Internoint.) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U77	Here you can use a hammer.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U78	Keep going, Mr. Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U79	Yes, then I would also, Mr. Tutin... we could show that the ballot box is empty before it is locked... ( The ring of noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U80	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U81	Colleagues! The call has been made, and this is the signal that we are opening a vote. Please, one by one, we go to the Voting Hall. Thank you. ( The vote is ongoing.) ( The vote is ongoing.) Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I informed you that there are five minutes left for the vote, until 12.19... 12.20. So, please, there's another five minutes to do this for those who have not. ( Insight: How many voices do you need to count?) ) (The vote is ongoing) ( The vote is ongoing.) Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I informed you that the vote is closed and the committee for counting votes will begin work on counting votes. Thank you. ( Counting of votes is taking place.) ( Counting of votes is taking place.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U82	Can we keep going? Member of the Commission for Voice Meters, Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U83	Dear Members, honourable Members, Minutes of the sitting of Saeima Vote Meters 9 - on the results of voting by electing the President of the Republic of Latvia. 29 May 2019, Riga, Saeima House, election sign No. 7. In total, 120 electoral marks have been produced. 95 electoral marks have been issued to Members. No damage or alteration. The remaining 25 electoral marks have been deleted. 95 electoral marks have been removed from the ballot box. 93 electoral marks have been recognised as valid. 2 electoral marks have been declared invalid. No vote has been taken against all candidates. Votes cast on candidates: Egils Levits – for – 61 (Applause) , against – 32; Juris Jansons – for – 8, against – 85; Didzis Schmidt – for – 24; against – 69. ( Internouncing call.) Result of the vote: Egils Levits was elected President of the Republic of Latvia. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U84	Dear colleagues, On behalf of the Saeima, we welcome the newly elected President of Latvia Egil Levit. Thank you for taking part in the presidential election to the Ombudsman Juris Jansons and member of the Saeima Didzim Šmits. Name of the newly elected President of Latvia Egil Levit.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U85	Dear people of Latvia! We have inherited our country from previous generations. The country of Latvia is won and created by our ancestors. The state of Latvia is a framework in which we can implement our dreams, enjoy our freedom and speak our own language. The work on strengthening Latvia's statehood never ends, so it is our duty to work for our future generation to inherit Latvia strong, safe and green. All my work will be devoted to this great task. I will be the president of all the people of Latvia - the president of all the beliefs, all the nationalities, all the faith, all the citizens of Latvia. Both those living in Latvia and those living in the wider world. I will be President of both the poor and the wealthy. I will be the President of both the rejected and the people who are safe for my life. My job will be to have more solidarity in our country, so that we all feel appreciated, needed and belonging to our country. We all live in an age of rapid change - Latvia, Europe, the world. The society - the way it is today - will be completely different in 10 years, and we must therefore be able to anticipate and manage these changes for the benefit of all of us. Latvia - from Mazirbe to Indra, from Ipiķi to Skaistkalne - has huge potential to walk the road of a modern, sustainable state, to become a country driven by the talents and knowledge of our people. All Latvians, wherever they are, are invited to put their hand on this work. There's going to be something that's going to change! It is and remains the key to the existence and development of Latvian nation, Latvian language and Latvian culture through the hundreds of years. Thank you, honourable Members, for the trust I have shown. Thank you to President Vējonis for his work for Latvia! Thank you to my co-competitors, the co-candidates for their participation in the first open Presidential elections in the history of Latvia! I would also like to thank my family for their support. Thank you to all those who work daily to make our country bolder, smarter and more beautiful! Let's work together! The life of the sun for Latvia! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U86	Thank you to the newly elected President of Latvia Egil Levit! Dear colleagues, Thank you, too, for your work today. Latvia has welcomed the new President of Latvia. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, to read the results of the registration as soon as they have been prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U87	Not registered: Uldis Augulis, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Armands Krauze, Vitalijs Orlovs, Ivans Ribakovs and Didzis Šmits. ( Interface: “The Ivan is! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-29-PT13-539-U88	Thank you. I closed the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima.
