ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U1	Dear colleagues, Please, take your seats! We started the sitting of the Saeima on 24 October 2019. Changes to the agenda The Commission of Public Expenditure and Audit asks for the draft decision “On the approval of the 2018 Annual Report of the Republic of Latvia on the implementation of the state budget and on the municipal budgets” to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for the draft decision on the appointment of Santa Purgaile as Chairman of the Financial and Capital Market Commission to be on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of State Administration and Local Government asks to exclude from the agenda of the sitting paragraph 21 – the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Civil Service”. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. We are starting to discuss the agenda for today's sitting. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the member Karina Sprūde, Alda Gobzema, Julia Stepanenko, Linda Liepiņa and Didžas Šmits be placed on the agenda for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Real Estate Tax”. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Aldis Gobzems. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U2	Good morning, colleagues! First of all, I would like to wish Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas well today. Secondly, I would like to call on all of you to listen to the argument that people would not be disloyal from housing for real estate tax debts, especially in a situation where this is the only housing. In particular, real estate tax is by nature the most unfair tax. And I'll tell you why. Real estate tax is that you don't hit your money in cars or on foreign journeys... in other countries, investing in other economies, or supermarkets, simply eating and spending on own consumption, or in a restaurant, but you have invested in your own country – the country of your country. You have made the land of your country more valuable. And because you have made the land of your country more valuable for your money, you not only have to pay real estate tax, but you can also take it away. And that's not fair. It's not statehood. And it does not encourage people to live in Latvia. Real estate tax is one of the reasons why Latvia is abandoned by people. We're not Monaco, people don't want to live here. Don't come here to make business and so on. If we had a bold policy, we would find ways to opt out of real estate tax at all – precisely because people make Latvia more valuable when building real estate. This proposal is too little nuance. This proposal is not about exempting all residents of Latvia from real estate tax, but just so that people cannot put their money at home because of excessive real estate tax. That is why I am asking for support for this proposal. And I begged you not to listen to the arguments about some oligarchs or rich people and so on here again... We are interested in our people being rich. And we are interested that they make the land of our country more valuable by building real estate belonging to it, living there and creating an environment in which others want to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U3	Thank you. ‘ Against’ applied to speak Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U4	Good morning, dear Member of the Speaker of the Saeima. Colleagues! I have already spoken at the last sitting of the Saeima about why this proposal and the specific draft law are harmful. It is not for nothing that the forces in Latvia, which a reasonable person would call anti-state forces, started to begin rhetoric about the so-called only housing. ( Internouncing call.) What does housing mean? I will stress once again. The only apartment means that a Latvian, Latvian, who owns an inherited home, for example, in a district outside Riga, should not receive any relief from real estate tax, including... in the specific case, this privilege. This means that this privilege – that no real estate tax debt is recovered from him – would be received by very rich people in Latvia who have chosen to rewrite real estate, including villas for several... several million villas, from offshore to their own name as a natural person. It is much fairer to talk about primary housing. The primary dwelling shall be a dwelling occupied by a natural person and owned by a natural person. Young Conservatives are currently trying to convince (Interface.) coalition partners also about the importance of introducing a fair exemption from real estate tax, and our offer, as we know, is not to tax housing of reasonable size. ( Internouncing call.) This housing, let us say, would be worth up to 100 thousand euros. In the specific case if this draft law... The populist bill would be supported, it would create a situation that villa in Jurmala, worth 50 million, which is subject to a very high real estate tax... and I would say – not large enough ( Dep. A. Gobzem: “And what?” )... including Kargin... but it may have been recorded on the office. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “And what?” ) They could in fact not pay real estate tax unless this person owns another property. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “And what?” ) Where, then, did this concept, the people’s displeasure, and the community’s justified displeasure with the amount of real estate tax arise at all? It started in 2015, when the Riga City Council (The Group's WITNESSES: "Aaaa!" )... Yes! Riga City Council. ... At the 56th meeting of the Riga City Council held on 9 June 2015, there was also the 11th voting protocol at 15.00. ... was voted on for new binding regulations “On Real Estate Tax in Riga”, to travel real estate tax to the land from 1 per cent to 1.5 per cent. ‘ 36 stakeholders voted in favour, including Vjačeslav Stepanenko, whose wife cynically presented this draft law. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: “The law has to be changed, and then there will be no decisions!” ) Vjačeslav Stepanenko is currently Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Administration Affairs of Riga City (Dep. Mr Stepanenko: “Change the law!” ), which according to the information in my possession recently handed over to sworn bailiffs... real estate tax debtors – more than thousands. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: “The Council cannot change the law!” ) And he does this... they do this in the Riga City Council, these anti-state forces, several times a year. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: “For this there is this law, so that the council cannot do it!” ) I expect – I expect – that Vjačeslav Stepanenko... You talk home there!... will stop putting people out of apartments in Riga. Historical residents – from home in Torņakalns and Mežaparks (Dep. Stepanenko: “Change the law! What are you at the Saeima for?” )... and will reduce real estate tax back as it was before 2015. But it does not rule out that we will fight for the exemption of primary housing from real estate tax. I am pleased that allies have a NA and also a CPV LV. Others engage in populism or want to raise property tax. It is therefore necessary to vote 'no' in this case. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U5	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Real Estate Tax”” in the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 33, against - 49, abstaining. Draft legislation is not on the agenda of the sitting. The Saeima has proposed that the Member Regina Lochmele-Luniv, Boris Cileviča, Vitaly Orlova, Andreja Klementyeva and Valeria Agešin’s draft law, ‘Amendment to the Law on Holidays, Remembrances and Markable Days’, be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Regina Ločmele-Lunova, Member of the European Parliament, has applied to speak about’. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U6	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, This year it is six years since the tragedy - 54 people lost their lives in the Zolitūde microdistrict in Riga on the evening of 21 November 2013, and several dozens were injured. By number of victims it was and remains the greatest tragedy since the restoration of the Republic of Latvia. The disaster has left the public at a time when it is severe and deep. Its causes and consequences are still being analysed and are not being resolved to the end. The Society of Victims “Zolitūde 21 11”, the Society “After the Fire” (for assistance to people affected by fires) and the Society of Search for Lost People “BEZVEST.LV” are asking to determine 21 November as the day of the memory of the Victims. In recent decades, Latvia has been shocked by several disasters. Also fresh people remember the sinking of Estonia by the ferry in the Baltic Sea; this tragedy claimed the lives of 852 people, including 17 Latvian citizens. Nine children died in the Talsi tragedy in 1997, but several children were injured and remained disabled for life. But November 21 is the day that hurts still, because it became special for our entire society. It is very difficult for me to talk about this, because I have been there for six years. So I decided today to just read to you a letter that I received a few days ago from one young girl, who is only 22 years old. ‘ I remember calling my father, the rescuer, suddenly from work on November 21. They called. Urgently. Then nobody else understood what had happened. In the news, the information spread brightly, but it seemed to all then that perhaps once again an elephant was blowed from the fly - that a couple of the injured and the ceiling were invaded. But no. In an hour, new news. And then feel like a nightmare and want to wake up from it faster. There's not just some roof down - concrete blouse and huge iron troughs fell to live people, shred them to death. The questions, how all this could have happened and what was to blame, appeared at the speed of sound, but the answers... There are still no answers. The Court has for four years now and is only at first instance. Our family didn't sleep that night. Each had its own thoughts, hopes, and prayers. To find people alive, so that Father, the saviour, may come home alive and whole. In 2013, I was 16 years old. I went to the scene of the tragedy and helped on the spot as a volunteer, but I was not allowed to do so. Then I came up with my own plan. I drew a poster and, in agreement with the teachers and the school principal, I stood for two days at each hour with a box and a German donation to help the victims of Zolitūde. All of them, even small first-classists, throw a few santoms into the box because they also realized that helping people affected by the tragedy was more important than sweets. All of us then managed to collect 220 lats, which we later transferred to Ziedot.lv until the last deposit. Then I felt that our school was united for the first time. And our whole society was united. This day must be a memorial day. And it's not just a memory of the dead. No, no! It will be a memory of those first to come to the rescue calls and then to help the victims and their loved ones. It will be a memory of doctors and rescuers who worked 24 hours a day and risked their lives every second while waiting for the roof to invade the second and then the third time. And most importantly, it will be a memory of what happened in Zolitūde on 21 November 2013 never again. Because if people were to act with conscience and conscience from the very beginning, this tragedy would not happen. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: “Time!” ) Unfortunately, however...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U7	Mrs Lochmele-Lunova, your time is up.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U8	... sometimes it seems that in Latvia something would happen according to the best consciousness...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U9	Your time is up!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U10	...and according to the conscience of which the highest price of life must be paid.’
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U11	Please! Your time is up!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U12	That's what Alexander wrote to me. But I ask you to vote in favour of the bill because we are able to make people...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U13	Thank you. Your time is up. Thank you. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U14	... who could have survived...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U15	Thank you, Mrs Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U16	All right. You got it. Thank you for your reminder.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U17	Thank you. ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U18	It is a great deal of time, and it is six years. I haven't been taking my leg for six years, and I'm not going to go twice more. And I advise you the same thing. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zariņš: “And then?” ; from the fraction DECLARES: “Where are you going?” ) It is the greatest tragedy in the history of Latvia, where the death of the vulnerable... in principle - murder of 54 people. And we all know that. That day, rarely anyone went to sleep. On that day the Russian gave a bread to the Latvian, the Latvian gave tea to the Kreve. Everyone was united. That day... That day we realized that something terrible had happened. Six years have passed. If it's fair, it's on the ground. For this day of memory. I hope you all know that November 21 is this day of memory. But what is the draft law that offers... which specifically proposes to record inside... I've signed it myself... I think four years ago, when Regina Lochmele-Lunova had not yet appointed her Member in the Saeima... I myself have signed a proposal for the same day. But it was rejected. I also understand why it was rejected. For if we read what is written, it is written: “In tragedies, in tragedies! - day of death.’ If you look at the letter of the law, what tragedies are we talking about? Regina Ločmele-Lunova called on the ferry Estonia, the Talsi tragedy, but it can also be interpreted as the Molyer tragedy, the Shakespeare tragedy, the Sofokle tragedy, as the 11 September tragedy. Too broad a concept. This is not a tragedy of Zolitude! Zolitude has nothing to do with this tragedy. Maxima, yes. Call it Maxim's tragedy! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “You’re not ashamed?” ) Call it Maxim's tragedy! Let's say, Maxime 54 people's day of death. Let him know who is responsible for this. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova: "Artus, what has happened to you in these years? You're not ashamed? What are you doing right now?” ) The following year, we will certainly see these memories and festivals. You have the opportunity to finally fix from “traems” to “maxima tragedy day” (interfaces.) , and you will be able to submit this proposal... you will be able to submit this proposal! Therefore, honourable colleagues, this is a very sensitive issue for Latvia, Latvian society, no matter, you are Russian, Ukrainian, Polish, Georgian... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Papule: “The Latvian doesn’t care!” ) is not important. There were 54 deaths. But I don’t see the title “The Day of Deaths”. There is one tragedy in particular: 21 November 2013. You don't have to put everything together in the same racial. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem, "Neighbours, do you not feel that you have become pathetic?" ) Thank you, respectable and disrespectable opposition! Please be so kind and reject this bill! ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U19	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Holidays, Remembrances and Markable Days” establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 33, for - 31, for - 17. ( Milestones.) Draft law (intermediate references.) has not been referred to the panel. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on Administrative Territories and Residents” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Arthur Tom Ples.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U20	Good morning, colleagues! I would remind you all that on 21 March this year, 2019, 88 Members of the Saeima unanimously supported the decision to continue administrative territorial reform. Since then, intensive work, consultations with municipal members and citizens have taken place in order to prepare a thoughtful and sustainable offer that would improve the quality of life of citizens, reduce inequalities in municipal services, as well as create full preconditions for further development of municipal and public administration activities. According to the task assigned by the Saeima, a territorial division model has been established, where all municipalities will be able to fulfil their functions after 10 years. But what is the situation now? 60 out of 119 municipalities do not meet the criteria for establishing territories set out in the draft law “Law on Administrative Areas and Localities”. Despite the population, the functions are the same for all municipalities, but many municipalities are not able to carry out all statutory functions independently in sufficient quality and cost. Inequality between municipalities continues to grow. And here are some examples. The administrative costs for municipalities vary from 50 to 200 euros per capita. In only 28 municipalities they represent less than 7 per cent of the municipal budget. 104 of 119 municipalities receive grants from the municipal financial equalisation fund. And for 39 municipalities, this grant amounts to more than 15 per cent of their total budget. There are no departments or specialists in 27 municipalities who would be directly responsible for business issues. Only 38 percent of the population have a place of work in their municipality, and there are opportunities to work there. These are just a few examples of the situation at the moment. Thus, we can conclude that an uneven administrative territorial structure has been created, citizens in municipalities receive very different quality services and are subject to very different possibilities for local development. Only strong municipalities can change this situation. It is in the public interest to establish economically viable municipalities that can provide quality services and become a strong ally for our country to carry out other reforms that are important for the development of our country, to strengthen economic development and the well-being of our citizens. In addition, the study by Latvijas Banka clearly shows that if the municipalities had an average of 20,000 inhabitants, the potential amount of savings could reach up to 190 million euros per year on average, which the municipalities could channel to additional needs and expectations. The OECD also makes clear that the reform will bring benefits and help address the growing gap between rural and urban areas. So, colleagues, it's not important what the name will be for the county, but what life will be like in it. The quality of services provided to citizens is important, not what is written in the completed form. It is important to ensure the development of municipalities so that people can work where they live. The prepared offer ensures this. I invite you to support the transfer of the draft law to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U21	Thank you. ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U22	Dear colleagues, On 21 March 2019, the Saeima indeed unanimously adopted a communication ‘On the continuation of administrative territorial reform’. With this announcement, the Saeima entrusted the government with three main tasks, in my view. Firstly, to produce a conceptual report on a new administrative territorial breakdown. Secondly, this report should be discussed with local authorities in accordance with Article 5 of the European Charter for Local Government. Thirdly, the conceptual report discussed with municipalities should be strengthened in the form of a bill and submitted to the Saeima. Since the announcement of the Saeima, half a year has passed, and today a new draft law “Law on Administrative Territories and Populations” has been submitted to the Saeima for consideration, which includes a vision of the Cabinet of Ministers and a proposal on the new territorial division of the State. It follows from this draft law that after 2021 local government elections Latvia will be divided into 39 administrative territories, consisting of 34 municipalities and five cities of the republican Republic. Unfortunately, in the process of drafting the law, it is only a pity to express that, in the explanatory memorandum accompanying the draft law, its authors are not ashamed to put on their shoulders, to grow with the “great” success that has been achieved in the process of preparing a new administrative division, to grow with a qualitative administrative division and extensive public consultation. In reality, the authors of this draft law have made every effort to prevent such a very important territorial reform in our country and the Constitutional Court has recognised this law as a legal parade, because neither a qualitative conceptual report on the new territorial division nor this report has been prepared in accordance with Article 5 of the European Charter of Local Authorities. The following my claims are confirmed already by the assessment of the progress of administrative territorial reform by the Constitutional Court in 2009, which anyone can verify in the judgement of the Constitutional Court of 30 October 2009, and it follows from this judgment: First, that every municipality should be given the opportunity to get acquainted with a sufficiently concrete and well-designed draft amendment of its administrative territory and to discuss it within a reasonable period, involving the residents of the respective territory as well as the people of the territory as far as possible. Secondly, municipal councils have the right to take a decision on the basis of the results of this consultation and to rely on the arguments put forward in the municipal decision to be assessed. Third, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development is obliged to request the municipal council to convene extraordinary meetings and to give an opinion on the proposal in question, so that it can then be considered. I can legitimately claim that the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development has not given municipalities an opportunity to get acquainted with sufficiently concrete and well-designed draft amendments of municipal administrative territories, nor has it set a reasonable period for these unspecific and imprecise proposals to be evaluated and discussed by municipalities. Moreover, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development not only did not invite local governments to clarify their opinion, but in some cases, they even addressed law enforcement and lifted municipal decisions with such municipal initiatives. The judgment of the Constitutional Court includes one significant case which the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development has ignored. Consultation is not a formal meeting in which questions are heard, but an assessment of all comments expressed and a reply given to the same community. The objections of the municipal communities must be resolved, not pretending to have been heard by you. Thus, a new administrative territorial breakdown project, which has not been properly discussed with local governments, has been submitted to the Saeima for progress, therefore, according to the decision of the Saeima of 21 March 2019, only one legal decision of the Saeima can be made today: not to support and reject further progress of this draft law in the Saeima, as well as to repeatedly instruct the Cabinet of Ministers to develop a reasoned and responsible new administrative division project and to commission local authorities to hold consultations with local authorities in accordance with Article 5 of the European Charter of Local Authorities. This government does not shamefully ignore the tasks given by the Saeima. This is not the first example, and unfortunately this shame is reflected in this draft law. I call for this to be rejected and for it to be returned to the government so that it can remedy the substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U23	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Law on Administrative Territories and Residents” to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. (Applause) On the granting of leave. The Saeima Bureau informed that she had received a request from a Member, Dana Reizniece–Ozola, to grant her unpaid leave from 24 October to 30 October of this year. The Bureau has granted this leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. The Saeima shall inform the Bureau that she has received an application from Member Māra Kučinska for the granting of unpaid leave from 22 October to 25 October of this year. The Bureau has granted this leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. The Saeima Bureau shall inform that she has received an application from a Member, Linda Ozola, for the granting of unpaid leave on 22 and 23 October of this year. The Bureau has granted this leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. The Saeima Bureau shall inform that she has received an application from Member Vita Anda Steel for granting unpaid leave from 21 to 23 October of this year. The Bureau has granted this leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. The next item is the draft decision on the appointment of Santa Purgaile as Chairman of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U24	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission on 22 October, the nomination of Santa Purgile as Chairman of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission was examined. The Commission has supported and is asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U25	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Gatis Eglitis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U26	Good morning, colleagues! I would like to congratulate Mrs Purgaile on her hard tender. We know that competition was great, there were many good candidates. So, congratulations! I would like to give you a bag like that for the future work of the FCMC. We had a meeting with Mrs Purgile in the political group and also with the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. To be honest, she left a very good impression. We see that Mrs Purgaile has a plan to solve two fundamental problems in the financial sector. The first problem is that the banking sector is currently under enormous stress and uncertainty due to the unclear rules of the game in the fight against money laundering. So these AML requirements... It could be said that we have arrived in the same way as in the other ditch: entrepreneurs face every day unjustified exaggerations and red tape from banks and public institutions. Unfortunately, this has a negative impact on the real economy. In our country, lending remains very weak and insufficient, especially if we compare with our neighbours - Lithuanians and Estonians. Investment projects almost do not happen or are being implemented in our neighbourhood. Exports become dangerous and unwanted, because entrepreneurs themselves need to carry out expensive and incomprehensible checks on their customers - whether they are in China, Uganda or Ukraine... Accounts are often not opened or wrongly closed. Therefore, there is an urgent need to strengthen a smart, risk-based FCMC... the supervision of the banking sector. The second point that I would like to highlight and for which I would like to thank Mrs Purgiles is that it is a desire to strengthen the capacity of the FCMC in the supervision and development of the capital market. There is a lot to be done here. We can see that Latvia, in the FinTech sector, is now far behind Vilnius. Our stock exchange capitalisation is... The capitalisation of the stock exchange is lower in the European Union. The path for small and medium-sized enterprises to the capital market and non-bank financing is costly and bureaucratic. Similarly, we still invest pension capital only in foreign bonds and shares. So there is a lot to do. We wish success, endurance and success in the financial sector stabilisation and development work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U27	Thank you. The name of Member Inese Voika. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U28	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, colleagues! I and my colleagues will be voting today in favour of the appointment of Santa Purgaile as Chairman of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission. We will do this with some caution, wishing Mrs Purgaile success in this position and in an area where Latvia needs substantial improvements and changes. We will also do so with confidence that there have been several positive moments in this selection process. With this process, the Financial and Capital Market Commission joins those independent institutions, whose head is appointed by the Saeima, together with the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau, where the manager is not chosen politically but through procedure and competition. This process (as she expressed publicly) has also encouraged Ms Purgaile herself to believe in the state of Latvia, to apply for this competition and to pass the selection. However, the process obviously did not contribute to the application of the best staff, which is directly with experience in banking supervision and which are currently working internationally. Here I have to turn to the opposition, in this case, to our opposition from the Union of Greens/Farmers, who, from time to time, call upon us to forget that they have been in government and say that it is enough. However, the traces left by the Kučinskis Government and the previous governments - the unwillingness to deal with the washing of money by Latvian banks and other supervisory issues - are continuing to keep their footsteps, and there will still be a long time to work, also for Mrs Purgile to deal with it. Cooperation or non-cooperation between this sector and the Latvian government and politicians in this field has obviously not created confidence in professionals that they should participate in the further construction of the Latvian state. We hope that this will change over time. This selection process also leads to such an important discussion - whether, if there has been a professional competition, politicians should take part in a further discussion at all or just press the button. Some felt that this should be done. We read the law of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission and we saw that the Saeima, and thus politicians, takes responsibility for these leaders. So we met Mrs. Purgaile several times, we studied her vision and professional offer, and there were two so important... two important points that delayed our ‘yes’ name for her appointment. The first was the conflict of interest that might arise because Mrs Purgaile comes from work... she comes from a commercial bank. And there might be a number of situations in which she will not be able to make decisions, because it will be necessary to make decisions about the bank itself. She has a vision of how to solve it in practice. However, the risk remains high, especially if some major problems arise and the company looks at the head of the FCMC, she will have to withdraw herself from the decision. The other thing that we were carefully interested in was her understanding of public administration, how the FCTC will work as a result of law change, how it will work internationally. This experience will have to be quickly acquired by Mrs Purgaile. We are pleased that the State Chancellery will provide her with support for several months. And we are also taking our support to address these issues by working together. Even though Mrs Purgaile had said she would like to meet the politicians last time... In today's vote... It's probably not gonna be able to do... And we will have to work further together to carry out the tasks and homework that we have to carry out in order to sort out the banking sector so that it can move forward. I call for support for the Purgile candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U29	Thank you. Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U30	Hello, colleagues! Listening to Mrs. Purgaile, there was a good impression of her as a professional who knew very well the field in which she had worked and where she will continue to work. But here I would like to mention, in fact, three things that Mrs Purgile would definitely like to say must be taken into account when she is working. First thing. Of course, given that she comes from the banking sector... she explained us very well... but, of course, it is necessary to avoid possible conflicts of interest, given that she has just worked for Citadele banka. Another thing that some speakers have already mentioned - the situation with bank accounts, with investments in Latvia, with the opening of accounts, with the closing of accounts... is also very important to me. directly related to economic operators... And it has to be said here that we have reached a critical point to me. We are talking about attracting investment to Latvia, about the fact that we need foreign direct investment in companies in order to develop production in Latvia, but at the same time... Not only these investors, but also our own entrepreneurs, who produce and sell products in Latvia outside Latvia - sell them all over the world, not only in the countries of the European Union! - they face very serious difficulties if their products go to a country that is perhaps a little dubious on the list... And here I would like to say that we have reached a point of absurdity - that even farmers cannot buy agricultural land in Latvia, because it turns out that the owner of the land has something to do with the husband. A farmer who works honestly, for whom all income is in Latvia... and the bank responds to him: “If you buy that land, you will get yourself into our blacklists.” So, I think, Mrs Purgaile really has to work very seriously here, because that cannot be the case. The third thing. It is very difficult for us in Latvia to go with the development of companies. We understand, of course, that this is a very small area in the large financial sector. But credit companies are those in which residents have united themselves, in which residents manage their own capital, and that is Latvian capital, it is not a foreign investment. The Krajaizdevelope companies will not develop in Latvia. I think this is an area that... not only for us, Members, and therefore for Mr Bondara with the Commission on Budget and Finance (Tax), but also for the Ministry of Finance, and also for Mrs Purgaile, to draw attention to this area, to understand why I have been making savings for the undeveloped societies, and yet to give them the green light to develop. And finally. In reply to Mrs Voika's reply to the Greens/Farmers' Union, I would like to say that the Greens/Farmers' Union was exactly that... It was our government that once started working on these issues related to the fight against money laundering in Latvia. We first started fighting against it. And if you want to know who created that financial paradise in Latvia, then we could start listing those who managed the Ministry of Finance since 2002, starting with Valdis Dombrovskis... and all the others who told me that there would be a banking paradise here. And it was them, all those before us, who set up the paradise of these banks, this paradise of washing. But the Union of Greens and Farmers was the one that started fighting to prevent us from being money-launderers here in Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U31	Thank you. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U32	Dear colleagues, I will not tell you about the threat of the grey list, nor about everything that has happened in the last two years. You yourself have been not only witnesses, but also participants in the way in which the last director of the FCMC was removed, and you probably remember that the government of Karin told us and promised us that the next... that all this is being done to make the next FCMC manager, well, would be something really extraordinary... a star at international level. I absolutely do not want to accuse Mrs Purgaile of anything, but it is such an examination, that is, the fact, we had been created by the Karina Government. With regard to this particular candidate, we really... little is known about the process of her nomination and selection that has taken place in the government corridors. Who took part? Why was Mrs Purgaile chosen exactly? First. It is absolutely clear that Mrs Purgaile unfortunately has absolutely no experience in the field of monitoring, the so-called AML (in English, antimoney laundering)... anti-washing. Both Mrs Purgaile and the representatives of the National Chancellery recognise this. Second. Colleagues, this is now the first case of this scale since Mrs Krumane, who was at the time the head of the FCMC, when the future head of the FCMC, the head, comes directly from the banking sector, from a very high position, namely the member of the board. This, of course, means a direct conflict of interest, an shadow of eternal suspicion over whether or not any new decisions made by the manager will or will not benefit a particular commercial bank. Moreover, one of Mrs Purgaile's direct relatives has been working for some time in another major commercial bank in Latvia. So we already have two commercial banks in Latvia, over which there is a shadow of doubt about the conflict of interests. So, my fellow Members, I can't agree... take responsibility for this decision and take responsibility for everything that will happen in the financial sector only on the shoulders of Members who will support this decision today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U33	Thank you. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U34	Good morning, colleagues! Members outside the political groups also had an opportunity to meet with Mrs Purgile. We called him, met him, and swindled him. I must admit that I have a very good communication capacity, and Mrs Purgaile really left a pretty good impression, but there are a number of things I would like to mention why I will vote against this candidacy. The first thing is that, however, I see a conflict of interest as Mrs Purgile has been working for as long in the banking sector. The second is about the mixed answers to the self-liquidation process of ABLV Bank. Again, I think... I asked Mrs Purgaile a very specific question about one of the clients of Citadele banka, who... on which transactions... He was suspected of being involved in North Korea's transactions. And it seemed strange to me that Mrs Purgile did not recall such an event. But that is my subjective opinion, on which my vote today will also be based. And if I'm not mistaken, yesterday there was some information that... was sent... The budget and financial (tax) commission - definitely; I do not know if it has been received by all Members... which also raised my concern that Mrs Purgile may have met with Members... at this time, when she met in connection with this possible new position, she has expressed... about some undisclosed man... as a foreign employee, foreign consultant, former ‘Citadel banka’. Well, there's a number of small things that, let's say, my choice... made me careful and particularly anxious. But one thing I would definitely like to say is that there is no need to be a person in such a position who gives different answers to the same question in different audiences. I'm not a five-lat coin, as Artus Kaimiņš once tried to say, I don't have to all like it. I want to hear clear answers, even if there are answers that I might like or not like. But the answer is. And Mrs Purgaile has not convinced me. And the style in which she now communicates is very similar to that of the unity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U35	Thank you. The name to the Member Atm Lejny.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U36	Member of the President-in-Office. Colleagues! A little bit of history if you allow me. I still remember those times at the end of the 1990s... Even when we joined the European Union and NATO... when I was director of the Latvian Institute of Foreign Policy, said in Riga: “How stupid are these Estonians! We will be the Switzerland of Latvia! We will be Switzerland in Eastern Europe. We'll teach you how to make money!” Now, today, we are hanged by the sword over the head. And that's why... Moneyval, I'm talking about Moneyval... And that's because no one sits... in principle. We washed one percent of the world's dirty money in this time; it's a considerable sum. All over the world, yeah... Now the money's been thoroughly washed, but... Well, we had yet a whole one percent, which is something. All right, I... Irene Kruman didn't experience it. She left when I was elected. Well, because she didn't know how to monitor the banks. At that time, I also realized that something was wrong. Well, then I voted in favour of Kristaps Zakulis. Zaculus came to her place. It was in the room where I think now “Who owns the state” is sitting... In the building opposite, where previously was the Unity. I remember very clearly that I asked Mr Zakulis: "You're going to put yourself in order with the FCTC?" ( Well, the FCTC is the Financial and Capital Market Commission.) Yeah, it's gonna be fine. I say: “OK. Then we will cast a voice for you.” So did we. And what happened afterwards? It happened that he didn't get it right! Well, then we slowly started to understand that there's a big lobby here! But then Peter's Bird came. And I still remember today... I looked at him right in the eye. I say: “But, Mr. Putniņš, with whom will you be better than Mr. Zakulis? Who will you be better with? You were, after all, Mr. Zakulis' Deputy. Is that so?” - “Yes, yes.” He looks at me like that and tells me... Well, as if he wanted to tell me, “I will certainly be better!” But... Well, that's not the way to say he's gonna be better than a former boss, right? But I realized here that everything would be fine. You weren't! I'll make you think like this. If we washed so much money. Now, for example, we took a third of the budget from Moldova, a third of the national budget. Imagine! We're now... The budget is 10 billion. If a third suddenly disappeared tomorrow, what would happen in this hall? What money should we distribute? Ha! Now this has happened in Moldova. And what punishment did Mr. Putnins have? Three million. Be careful! What's three million against billion? Everybody's got it, and it's okay! Something crazy! Ha-ha! You gotta laugh! But that was a big sum! That was a big sum. Yes, Latvia has a big sum. Now we have a new candidate, and we have, of course, asked him well. I will vote for him. I think that the coalition will also vote for him, because the times have changed. Times have changed. Young people are coming, and I think it is because of the sword of Solomon that everyone understands what it means, she will do everything she can, and we will support her. I invite you to support him! This time it will work!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U37	Thank you. The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U38	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! First, a rejoinder to what Ata Leenis said. Well, that's exactly... I have not heard that it says so precisely: “We have washed away!” That's right, you washed it! (Applause) For the last ten years, since 2009. Over the past ten years, he has been Prime Minister of Unity. You have appointed all the leaders of the FCMC. Before that you had the Minister for Finance, you led the National Security Council, which at the bottom was... As they say, under supervision... Security institutions, which had been negotiating the President of the Bank of Latvia for years... With whom - we all know now. He once again became President of the Bank of Latvia, once again received the highest tolerances. That's it! You washed it! ( Internouncing call.) So it is not possible to say more precisely. What we're going on now is exactly what you worked on. But now two words for candidates. I will certainly not question her professionalism. I don't have any basis. But one thing is important, and it is a conflict of interest. Neither do I doubt that Mrs Purgailes... that any other person may also, on the day following that in which he leaves, perform his new duties in good faith and, as he says, not look back. That is certainly possible. But if we go to the Nordic country, as we say more and more often here, then it would be logical to have such a period of isolation. Such direct access is not really acceptable. The fact that there will be three members of the council, too, is a purely practical concern to me. If Mrs Purgaile does not participate in the decision on Citadele banka, then two members remain. If their opinions are different, then we get into a situation in which Mrs Purgiles is present. But I'm here... may or may not participate. But to say that will participate in the supervision of KNAB (as if the impartiality of its decision will be guaranteed), it seems to me just comical! I do not know whether KNAB is already equipped with some extrasensories, or whether a bribe is expected to be handed over and accepted at the time of the decision. This, of course, does not solve this situation in any way. Salt for what Gatis Eglytis said. I completely agree that we have come from one ditch to the other. Right now, companies... businessmen... if he used to hire one person who worked with banks, he now earns five or more. Who is not yet ready to move, is currently opening accounts abroad so that, in the event of an X hour, when the bank will announce the closure of the account without any reason, it will be possible to pay wages to employees. Those who are smaller and able to move, they are planning to move, and many have already moved. If in the past we had the biggest problem of labour emigration... emigration of businesses is now the biggest problem... And that's what you did. Now you're telling me that you're gonna break it out. And... but what is a significant addition here? We can appoint anything as the head of the FCMC and hope that these issues will be resolved. Companies do not take these decisions because they have one or the other head of the FCMC; they see the government's indifference towards closing accounts for companies and they can move. They see great indifference on our part too. And that's not gonna be solved by any of the better or worse heads of the FCMC. This can only be solved by the government and politicians in general, showing that they care that companies remain here. As in Estonia, where there is now a debate about the fact that the right to a bank account is comparable to human rights, which are both private... both natural and legal persons. It can't be that you can't open an account in Latvia... Both privately and as a legal entity... But then, in the end, with such irony, we talked to Mrs Purgaile about an interesting situation... It’s no secret that a number of Scandinavian banks that close hard companies accounts, says: “But go to “Citadele bank”, there will open you!” That's right. I think very many people know that. And that's a good question: why is that? Returning to the topic of conflict of interest - why is that so? Why does Citadele banka open? But... Well, here maybe this conflict of interest isn't particularly... Three days later, after our conversation with Mrs Purgaile, I received a call from one large Latvian company, which has been working for 25 years in Latvia and employing around 500 people. ‘ Citadele banka’s account was also closed without any warning! So this is where we're already flat... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U39	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U40	If honestly, I do not understand how to take them around the appointment of the head of the FCMC. Why? Because we will not have anything to monitor in the near future, because we will not simply have a financial system in the near future. Our Latvian companies are currently emigrating to other countries in an increasing number. People in everyday life have encountered the fact that they have no warnings, or... on a formal basis, close bank accounts and they emigrate to other countries by opening bank accounts elsewhere. So globally... talk about the fact that the head of the Financial and Capital Market Commission will now change something significantly, probably we cannot for the reason that this process is only taking on increasing speeds, i.e. financial emigration is taking place away from Latvia. But now a little rejoinder to what Mr. Leiens said about how much we're going to put everything in place here now. Dear Coalition, I will remind you that financial market alignment takes place during the period when the most responsible financial markets in Latvia, the President of the Bank of Latvia, we have Ilmārs Rimšēvičs. And you have done nothing to prevent the President of the Bank of Latvia from finding this person, absolutely nothing. You are talking about the Nordic countries. Show me, please, at least one of those where a person with appropriate charges would run their local national banks. There's no such country! Show me one successful financial market in which the local national banks would run such a person. There is no such financial market! It should have started, not boasting that we will now appoint one or other person to a particular post. Regarding Mrs Purgaile, I will not comment on the reason that I strongly doubt whether one person in a particular post - whether it be Mr Putniņš in advance or Mrs Purgaile in the meantime - will make a fundamental change. Of course, that will not be the case. It will not be because your goal is apparently a social experiment, how far the Latvian society will tolerate, how far the entrepreneurs will tolerate that in Latvia, in fact, they can no longer do business, that "financial" - the same is already the case and that it is easier to leave Latvia than to stay here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U41	Thank you. The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U42	Hello, dear colleagues! I wanted to join what previous colleagues have said, and maybe mark it so more precise... To quantify the many, many and big problems that the Latvian banking sector is currently facing and which the future CEO of the FCTC, if we appoint him today, will also have to deal with. First of all, about the business model of banks. Currently, the business model of Latvia's largest commercial banks has shifted from lending to making real money from commission... the withdrawal of money and so on. This is totally unacceptable. This does not contribute to the economic development of Latvia, and the loan portfolio of Latvian households - only households - has decreased by 300 million over the last year. Can you imagine what that means? ( Internouncing call.) This means that banks do not credit that real estate will not develop, business will not develop. So the first... This is the first one that the new manager should work on. Second. Foreigners from different countries, even from European countries, cannot open accounts. It takes several weeks to open accounts... real. ( Internouncing call.) Where are we going? ( Internouncing call.) Where have we reached all this if we are in a situation where even foreigners from European countries cannot open accounts? The third one I want to draw. So the biggest entrepreneurs in Latvia (I regrettably cannot be called in the name, because the entrepreneurs themselves have not agreed, but the biggest and most well-known entrepreneurs in Latvia) who have been in business for years, cooperation with... With 40 and more countries... Now they're shut down... the largest banks in Latvia close their accounts. That is the reality. Now, where do you think we're going to get this way? If this situation does not change dramatically, there will be very serious problems in the near future. Very big! I can go on, this is not the only example. Four. I've got enough, well, like... I can't say anything wrong about Mrs Purgaile and wish her all the best and luck, but I know that there were also many candidates with international experience in this competition. Candidates with international experience in banking supervision in different countries had applied. Here I have... But the question remains - why? However, how objective the evaluation was and whether the best and most appropriate candidate was indeed advanced. But we'll see that already. I wish her well, and I hope she will succeed! The fifth point, not least, is about the new companies in FinTech start-up mentioned above. Lithuania and Latvia have 80 against zero in financial technology start-ups. 80 financial technologies start-up has received state support and works in Lithuania, Latvia - zero. When I called on the FCTC, which is responsible for the regulator's sandstone on my sub- commission - the Information Technology and Innovative Business Commission of the Commission for Sustainable Development - they said to me that everything was fine. But it comes next to the financial technology businessman and says, ‘No, this state aid does not really work.’ They say, “No, no, it works, it works.” I say, “But you, uh, where the industry says it doesn’t work!” They say: “No, no, no, it’s okay! We have it! We now have more important problems. And if anything, it doesn't cost us anything in any case, if it doesn't work." That is the attitude. I wish the new one if we appoint him... the new FCMC leader to be... work with an imaginary or more real problem... Of course, the real problems also need to be worked on, but to work on development and solve all the five problems that I have mentioned. These are very important. I think that with the policy that we have gone so far, it will be a serious rebound for the Latvian economy. Good luck, and let us be very active on how these tasks will be carried out. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U43	Thank you. The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U44	I fully agree with Mr Znotiņš from the New Conservative Party on what he has just said, but with one small point. Mr Znotiņš, all these problems are your coalitions and the creation of your government. ( Internouncing call.) You are in this government, and it was you who created these problems, not anyone else else. It's you! You've been in power for years. Where are the results, a coalition, when the Latvian financial system collapses? ( Internouncing call.) The problems that you are talking about have only increased and become ever more acute this year. And why is that? Rainy, I'll let you talk to me. ( Interface: ‘ Better not! ’) ) Because you, as a young person, are afraid to stand up to such a coalition and to such a policy that has been conducted over the last year. ( Internouncing call.) If you weren't afraid... If you were not afraid and if you were more afraid, we would not have ruined the financial system. Step up and say how difficult the financial situation is, but at the same time, vote in all the votes so that this situation can only be deepened from the point of view of the noise - well, that is... A little twofold. Rainy, I call you to let your words that you say from the platform - and these are the right words! - would be consistent with your work, which unfortunately is wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U45	Thank you. The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U46	I will certainly not agree with Aldim Gobzem that the UPP, and also the KPV LV, would be guilty of this situation that has developed in the country. That wouldn't be fair. ( Intercretion: Thank you!) ) Where is the responsibility of both the JPN and KPV LV, you restored them to power. You appointed them back (Interior call: “It’s so!” ) where they had to strike with a stinking tree. They have a Minister for Finance again! Those who pick this up. And that's your responsibility, no one else. Just yours. But we put it aside. I got one remark. I forgot to say it when I first spoke. There are things that make me ask questions, but I have no answers yet. I think as we walk, we'll see them. I understand that the idea is to combine the FCMC in the future with the Bank of Latvia in one institution. I personally support this. I think that is wise. We do not have to put all of this in two institutions. Especially in view of the number of functions to be performed by Latvijas Banka after the adoption of the euro, this would be only logical. And that's why I don't know where we are now. The FMC shall be the temporary Head. Bringing together... I understand that the famous President of the Bank of Latvia also expires in December. Joined institutions, we appoint the Head of the Bank of Latvia! We're dealing with FCTC issues and... Or... Or do we now really wish the Head of the Bank of Latvia? I don't know. ( Internouncing call.) I do not really know the answers to these questions. I mean, time will show up. But I think we don't all understand this in the Chamber today... I won't say a chess game... the dambrete game that is now taking place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U47	Thank you. Name to the Member... Called... There's no... ( Internouncing call.) I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the appointment of Santa Purgaile as Chairman of the Financial and Capital Market Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 55, for - 4, for - 21. Congratulations to Santa Purgaili on his appointment as Chairman of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission! (Applause) The next item is the examination of Members' requests. Member Jūlija Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Linda Liepiņa, Alda Gobzema, Evija Papules, Regina Ločmeles-Lunova, Didža Šmita, Lubova Švekova, Vjačeslava Dombrovska and Nikolaja Kabanova request of the Minister for Education and Science Ilga Šuplinska “On public statements of the Minister in relation to pre-school teacher workload”. On behalf of the Commission - Member Linda Liepiņa.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U48	Colleagues! Very short. On 16 October, the Commission examined a request from Members to the Minister for Education and Science, Ilga Šuplinska “On the Minister’s public statements on the workload of pre-school teachers”. It is no secret to anyone that issues relating to education and health are debated, debated, dealt with especially emotionally because they are painful topics. This committee meeting was not an exception. More was, of course, not about the issues covered by demand, but about the sectors and their problems in general. I would really like to thank the Minister for Education for coming to the Commission, the Request Commission, unlike some other representatives of the government, and indeed explaining her position to both Members and industry. Because, as we all know, the representatives of the LIZDA are also very active and literally hold their hand on the pulse not only of the reforms that are trying to implement, but also of what the Minister says, and perhaps these statements by the Minister are not always very successful. But for all the parties involved - and I said the same - last time, speaking from the troupe, when we looked at another request from the Minister for Education, I would like to wish once again to come to a constructive dialogue in which not only expressions and speeches but also listens. That's all I want to say from the platform. When two Members voted in favour, nine voted in favour and one non-voting, the request was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U49	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U50	Dear colleagues, For my part, too, I would like to thank Mrs Šuplinska for her active participation in the Panel. Unfortunately, this is not a first request to the Minister for Education, and unfortunately it is once again about communication. As there were various views during the sitting that perhaps someone has misunderstood and not heard, I would also like to read to the verbatim what is at this point. So in the Crosspoint programme, Ms Šuplinska said: “I am, of course, a higher education teacher. I see the content included in the general education phase, and I don't think that it's a good, much more complicated period for teachers and teachers at this stage. And I do not deny that the psychological tension in the kindergarten when working at a very diverse age stage is a real challenge. But it seems to me that its pedagogic co-engagement is not so active. That is why this is one of the provocative offers: to separate the educational burden in the kindergarten, not to show that it is 36 only hours of teaching work, but to separate, I do not know, maybe half is only teaching work, half is this observation work. As a whole, this here is the load of kindergarten teacher, kindergarten educators, think about this.” Then the journalist Māra Jansone asked: “But how could it refer to the salaries of these educators, because in the pre-school period this salary is so low?” , to which Mrs Šuplinska replied: “Well, I want a discussion on this. I say once again that, in my view, getting ready for one high school hour and having a lecture at the university has a lot of time, much more time and, I would also say, knowledge, and skills, more than an hour in a kindergarten. And its requirement for contact hours in the secondary or general education period is much higher than in the kindergarten. And I already think that these weights are not put together in a single figure that is adequate for that salary rate, or let's assume the number of hours, which is also adequate. It's a question of discussion, I'm open to it, I don't like a rumor." In order to avoid any disagreement, you have heard the whole of this discussion, on which a request has been made at all. What provocative can be at all in the situation proposed by Mrs Šuplinska, when, due to the catastrophic lack of educators, some municipalities are forced to seek solutions. I will explain why, at all, we believe that this is a very big problem and that it should not be tackled by provocative solutions and insulting teachers, but again by listening to what Liszda calls for. And, of course, also listening to what the members of the opposition say. On 21 November 2018, the Cabinet approved the draft regulations prepared by the Ministry of Education and Science, namely the Cabinet Regulations No. 716 - “Regulations on State pre-school guidelines and models of pre-school programmes”. This is planned to be implemented from 2019/2020. the school year. And according to the new approach, the pre-school learning process is organised as a whole-day play classes; it involves targeted or indirect play classes organised by educators and children's free play. This happens both inside and outside the premises. And the introduction of a new competence-based teaching content at pre-school institutions must provide additional time and financial resources for teacher cooperation. However, you, honourable coalition colleagues, refused to allocate these resources to the 2019 budget. As we know, teachers working with pre-school age group children (except compulsory school preparation) are provided with remuneration from the municipal budget, so the level of their remuneration is influenced by the financial capacity of each municipality. But these educators have exactly the same educational requirements and tasks! And the reform foresees that the introduction of a competence approach in the content of learning should start directly with the pre-school. The responsibility for quality and implementation lies with the teachers, but there is no real support from the ministry. And such support has not been heard so far. And you have also rejected this proposal. Perhaps, in order for the Minister to better understand the issues of this particular sector, the pre-school sector, she really should be shadowing pre-school teachers one day from morning to evening. To understand what is really happening in the garden. But if the Minister does not choose this, I would like to call on him, perhaps, to listen to the words of psychologist Gunita Kleinberga, who himself has a mother and has worked very hard to help teachers and parents to see the development needs of the child and to support the motivation of children's teaching. She says: “At present, a preschool teacher must be responsible for the irresponsibly and be able to work and develop children in a situation where it is not possible to do so qualitatively even for a highly competent teacher. If no one starts to actively change the law on the reduction of the number of children in groups, the system of pre-school teacher support and real daily support, then the education reform will not make sense.’ Because the reform of education begins with pre-school. Gunita Kleinberg offers not a provocative distribution of load, but rather - quite the opposite! - to ensure that children are fully employed throughout the day by two people - a teacher and a teacher's assistant - but another person would do various cleaning and assistance works. The psychologist is keen to point out that there is no idea of equality between schools and pre-school institutions, either in terms of the number of children, the support system, or the remuneration, which is extremely low, given the responsibility of pre-school educators, working two hours to provide a living. And that's harsh if we know that age to seven years is one of the most important for children's development. Being aware of the whole set of problems, it is short-sighted and cynical to ignore the work of pre-school teachers. And I would also like to thank all the teachers of pre-school education and to express my regret at the fact that their work is being dulled. And I call on society as a whole to remember that it is imperative to welcome teachers from pre-school institutions on Teacher Day, often forgotten by parents. And let us not call teachers of preschool schools to teachers, but teachers to teachers, because they are teachers! And they deserve state aid, and they do not deserve such treatment, they do not deserve such communication! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U51	Thank you. The debate will continue after the break. Please check-in mode! Clementyev. Today we want to welcome one anniversary. On October 22, Ojars Ēriks Kalniņš celebrated our very beautiful anniversary of life. Congratulations! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U52	Good morning, honourable Members! Not registered: Aldis Adamovičs... I don't see, John Adamson... No, Aldis Blumbergs... No, John Duklav... No, Mary Golubeva... No, I'm not, Inese Rectsen... I don't see, Richard Coll... No, Maris Kučinskis... Not in the hall, Inara Mūrniece... No, Roman Money... No, Dan Reizer-Ozol... No, John Wucan... I don't see, Evita Hallie-Gross... Not in the medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U53	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U54	Dear colleagues, Let's get back to the Saeima sitting after the break. Please go back to your places! We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U55	If you think about this, it is actually quite understandable and logical to explain why, before the restoration of independence, today's Minister of Education Ilga Šuplinska, as an active representative of the youth, wrote in the newspaper about the fact that on 23 August some national-spoken people were ignored. And its logic is very simple if we look at what kind of political organisation is located today in Ilga Šuplinska. Ilga Šuplinska is today in the New Conservative Party, which is known as the “New Communists”. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “Lemberg just calls it! Now you too!” (Laughter) And, in fact, it is quite clear what the Communists of that time have in common with the Communists of this time, which unites the idea of communism. It's propaganda - propaganda! For Communists to exist, they need a tool that can influence public opinion. Communicators do not need an educated society, but a society that can be manipulated by different expressions. And if we look at it, Feldman: “So, Aldi, you’re a Communist! Yes!’ Thank you very much. ... The actions of the new conservative party, then we can see that they are fully in line with the actions related to the creation of an uneducated society in order to be able to implement its propagandaist settings. ( Internouncing call.) On education, our Minister for Education and Science has only recently publicly told the teachers that she does not have the Pandora box from which to withdraw their pay for the teachers. I would like to remind you that Pandora's ancient Greek mythology was the first woman made by the gods under the orders of the Zeus. ( Insight: ‘ Books are reading? ’) ) I will remind you that you also have a little education. Zeus ordered the creation of a woman because he wanted to avenge people for it. — Hall of Noise. that Prometheus gave to men the fire stolen from the gods. Zeus intended that Pandora would bring vices and calamities to humans. ( Milestones.) Pandora was given a vessel containing all human disasters and vices. ( Insight: “You are uneducated! You can’t learn the whole text!” ) What is the result? It is also understandable and quite logical why the Minister for Education and Science used this statement on opening Pandora's box, which at first seems illogical. It seems, ‘ How will the Pandora’s charge be opened to the teachers? ’ But in fact, this prime minister's statement has a very irony logic, because the ruling coalition does not regard teachers and society as people, but as a lower box. A coalition that is dominated by people, including the UKP, considers itself. And so it is absolutely clear that, if it is opened, the Pandora's bear and the "munity" - the addition of teachers' salaries - will reach the teachers, then our society will be more educated. And if our society is more educated, then, of course, it will not be possible to manipulate society's minds with propaganda tools, as the new Conservative Party wants to do. With the people in this statement about opening Pandora’s charge, the Minister apparently only thought of a coalition. Because these are people who will, of course, have an annex to the budget after approval: five million by party, political tourism missions... and so on. But there will be no teachers. And so we come to the question of early childhood education. Minister Šuplinska does not understand, of course, that pre-school education is the most important part of education, because it is the very foundation. A person who has no foundation cannot be stable, with stable confidence. And the foundations are placed in the kindergarten for a child. I would like to remind you that a child in a kindergarten is not only a minor but also a person who needs to be looked at continuously. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “Do you have to look after or grow up?” ) It's not like a student at a university who doesn't have to look at whether a high school student at secondary school. A small child should be taken care of at all times, and it requires a very high amount of energy. A small child is the one who is most easily taught by many and a variety of educational issues. Therefore, Mrs Šuplinska cannot agree with what she said as a minister for education that in a kindergarten... pre-school education... Well, that's where those educators don't have to spend so much of that time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Muižniece: “Melo now!” ) It's not... What is all this about? All this is, in fact, one very important aspect, and unfortunately I have to say so. Our education minister, Ilga Šuplinska, is incompetent, she is totally incompetent, and the most crazy thing is that Ilga Šuplinska is trying to pass on to society. She is trying herself to create a conflict situation with teachers and not because she would be smarter, but probably because she is less educated. More recently, we have examined the demand for the Long Shuplinsk Demission and, in this context too, once again, this emphasis has to be reiterated: Mr Šuplinska, as the Minister of Education, from the same party as the Minister of Justice, is ready to support the construction of the prison and tell teachers that there is no money. Not to fight and negotiate with the boss of his party that he refuses to build the prison and directs this money to the teachers - to which Ilga Šuplinska is not ready. This means that the New Conservative Party, or what it calls 'new Communists', certainly does not need a society that has been trained from a child's leg in its activities. Because if there is an educated society, such political power will simply not exist objectively. I would like to emphasise that teachers, educators, whatever we call them, should be the same as the best teacher in the best secondary school. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Muižniece: “But of course!” ) And this can be achieved, Mrs Muižniece, not by driving political tourism to Japan, as you are doing, and by getting a higher salary as Parliamentary Secretary in the Ministry of Education, as you are doing, but by fighting for teachers' salaries and giving up party funding as priorities. That you may be less for yourself, and more for teachers. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstin’s intermediate call sign.) That demand is therefore about trying to explain to Long Suplinsk that, in education, the Minister must act in a way that does not shame the education system to help it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Muižniece: “But not about everything you have just spoken!” ) I hope that the Minister of Education, Ilga Šuplinska, will understand that her resignation is the best assistance to the education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U56	Thank you. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U57	Ladies, thank you very much! Ladies and gentlemen, very much! If you are truly honored and respected, are you ready to show compassion to 11 thousand teachers working at pre-school institutions and support the request “On the Minister’s public statements on pre-school teacher workload”? Why? Because from this year, a competence-based approach has been introduced in pre-school institutions, but it seems to the Minister that this competence-based approach is not available. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstin’s intermediate call sign.) And I have a great request to you - to see how those educators feel... Those 11 thousand who work in kindergartens, who look after our children. For each discussion, there is also space, time and public space for each question. And it's obvious that this time the Minister for Education and Science started a discussion in this way and in this form... is ethical and does not meet any standards of competence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U58	Thank you. Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U59	Hello, dear colleagues! On the request. First of all, thank you to Mrs Stepanenko for quoting specifically on the radio... the specific names of Minister Šuplinska. And so that I don't repeat, I'm just saying that what you've been reading included words like that... that they do not deny psychological burdens that are much higher in pre-school than in secondary or higher education, were words like “I don’t know”, “I want a discussion”, “because as a minister I feel”... And that is a question for discussion. The Minister has not said at any time that he does not respect, value, understand the importance of pre-school teachers or, in any way, that he has tried to turn... And precisely because of this discussion... already on 6 November, together with teachers from pre-school institutions - not their leaders, but those who are implementing this new, competence-based approach, where indeed there is a much greater burden at the pre-school stage! - will be the first discussion of how they manage to implement this approach, what support they need from the Ministry of Education and Science. And the Minister is ready to talk about these statements too. And for the rest... I will certainly speak today on this debate... But the fact that Members and any Member, including the opposition, are making requests to ministers is normal. This can and can and must be done. And yet I want to talk about purpose and shape. ( Internouncing call.) Because if we use - and we, Members, use it! - our right to ask, to ask, to know, to understand (it is also our normal duty), then it seems to me that it is wrong to do so with the following aim... come into a triple and mix the pot vegetables, pebbles, sugar, and maybe add to the laundry powder, hoping that delicious and nutritious soup will succeed. That's not right! Goal... And, speaking of the objective, I want to turn to us, all 100, and call on us to remember the pre-election time. We're each! - we started the pre-election campaign. I hope we all aim not here, forgive, look to each other, but build our country, build Latvia. And like every citizen of Latvia, we, the 100 Members here and our ministers, have a vision of our own experiences or sometimes ideas, which we have to discuss with the public and - and the Minister also called, I will point out! - with all the parties concerned. We each have our own strengths, our own competences, and every one of us has times when we get down or take a rude step. And that's a great power to teach me to admit and to say in the right place that I've made a mistake or that I have taken this wrong step. But at the end of the day, we, Members and Ministers, the heads, leaders and leaders of our country must always be able to answer some questions - what has I helped this country with? What have I given it, and what do Latvian society and every citizen get from it? And here... Have Members of the Saeima really achieved this objective? Does Mrs Stepanenko, who did not even listen to the Minister's replies at the same meeting of the Committee on Petitions, really act in good faith? Let him answer that. Is it really your only task here in these four years, as my colleague Gobzem said to me in the morning, "you have to go out immediately"? Then, every time you come here, forgive someone, "comfort" - and that's the word in the footsteps - think of what Latvia seems to be the only one to do, and how this is in line with the Member's vision and basic tasks! Finally. I have rarely said something in favour of colleagues from the opposition, but today - thank you to Mrs Liepiņa for the correct message that the Minister's replies were given that she presented it and that the situation was explained, which is also confirmed by the committee's vote, rejecting this request. The work of pre-school teachers - that is from my point of view, my message - is invaluable, essential and one of the main drivers of further development in the lives of every person. Neither the coalition nor the ISM nor the Minister have denied this at any time, nor have we denied it, nor have we denied it, as Mr Gobzem has just pointed out, for salaries, we are fighting and we will continue to fight. I would remind you that last year we also had this discussion. We had that last week when we had the Minister's request for a resignation. It was the new Conservative that managed to end after a long break... already this year educators went on vacation, knowing that they will really have a rise in wages, because all the previous years, at least (Interview.) , as I have been involved in this educational process, we never knew it in the last week of August. This year, too, I will do everything in my power, as well as Mrs Šuplinska and my coalition colleagues, so that the next rise in wages can be achieved. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U60	Thank you. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U61	It happens that we will now exchange kindness with Mrs Muižniece here, because I would also like to say to you, Mrs Muižniece, thank you for mentioning that it is only normal that Members have questions, they ask questions and also expect answers to questions, requests and so on. I'm just... It's quite logical... the question arises, where are the coalition Members asking these questions? And where do they get answers? Because I have not seen since we have once again a coalition and a coalition council, I have not seen any requests from the coalition; I have not seen any questions. It all happens somewhere behind closed doors. Unfortunately, some of the people's elected leaders are also unable to get the right answers, then there is some interpretation and probably the head of government comes and tries to explain it in some way. Here I would like to mention... With Mrs Dagmar Beitnere-Le Galla, I had the opportunity to see how the question of ministers takes place at the French National Assembly. It happens that there's twice a week, I think, in two hours... All members of the Assembly participate, and the entire Cabinet of Ministers is asked, including the Prime Minister. They also come and report, answer questions. This is just a normal practice. I would therefore like to call on Members of the coalition to be a little more active - but you certainly also have a request... Do you really have to hide everything and do it behind closed doors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U62	Thank you. The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U63	Dear colleagues, Mrs. Monsieur, I understand. You said today that you will only speak once. Obviously, you have been able to reconcile this speech, but you have not been able to write and coordinate the second speech. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Muižniece: “I don’t agree my speeches!” ) Therefore, you will have to keep quiet. But if we're talking about the contribution... and thank you for your question, Mrs Muižniece. You said that I could not sit until the end of the Panel, I had to go away, I did not listen ( Dep. A. Muižniece: “I didn’t say that!” )... I did not listen to Mrs Šuplinska's reply. And I'll tell you where I went. Since you prevented me from being Members of the Commission for Petitions - you systematically voted against me being on the Commission for Petitions! - I was forced to go to the European Commission for European Affairs, whose Member I am. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “What was more important there?” ) I, of course, was not able to get there because I was asked questions by a journalist you agreed who wanted to convince me that I was wrong. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Medicines cause noise.) But... But... But, Mrs Muižniece, you know what question was addressed by the Committee on European Affairs? ( Internouncing call.) If we are talking about the contribution, the European Courts Commission was looking at my proposal... and thank the Members for supporting my proposal for the OCTA Directive for Latvia to stand up for those drivers who do not use vehicles throughout the season. You, Mrs. Muižniece, Member of the Coalition, with your huge contribution... 200 euros, plus... you have deposited the OCTA Directive. I, an opposition Member, was the only one who, at the meeting of the Committee on European Affairs, drew attention to the fact that you were ready to let go (Intergovernmental call.) OCTA Directive without amendment. If we're talking about contributions. So thank you. And if we are still talking about this discussion - Mrs Muižniece, I am very grateful to you for allowing us to ask questions; that you are still allowing the Request Commission to work. Because Members' requests and Members' questions - that is indeed the only way to exercise parliamentary control. The only way we can deal with... to conduct discussions with ministers. Of course, your colleagues have offered us a quiet meeting with Mrs Šuplinska. Sign up for acceptance. Sign up for a reception and talk quietly, what then she really wanted to say to it. But this is a public demand. And that's what the trade union demands. The trade union wants to speak. And the parents want to talk. And parents don't care what's going on. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Do not speak in the name of everything!” ) And also teachers don’t care what’s going on. But thank you for allowing me. I understand that you will very soon want to wind up the Request Commission, because it will interfere with you. ( Interface: “Merge! ” ) Because it interferes with you (interface: “Join!” )... You have said that you have been praising together, that you have reconciled your speeches together. ( Internouncing call.) This is your style of action. And you're going there, last row, when you end up painting books there... That's how you work, honourable colleagues! ( Internoint.) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U64	Thank you. The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U65	There is, in fact, a reduction in funds for foster families in the next budget, a reduction in the feeding of children in the next budget. An increase of five million for parties in the next budget. Congratulations to the Latvian people on the fight for the improvement of education in Latvia! It is about the series - Mrs Muižniece tells us how we are trying to develop education... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Interdependence of the Muižniece.) Ma'am! Maybe I have to phrase here our colleague who was speaking on “Latvian Television” this morning... reword what she said. Perhaps you would like the ministers of Long Šuplinska to present as a cake “Cielaviņa”, and maybe she is similar to the cake “Cielaviņa”? But the content is not like that. That's not the content! And people understand that you are speaking one, but in fact, in the budget you are adopting solutions that reduce support for children at pre-school age, reduce support for children in foster families, reduce support for holidays and so on. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Muižniece: “Where is it?” ) That is one thing. The other thing. I fully agree with Linda Liepiņš on asking questions. I would just like to say in addition: people who have no questions... and understand why the coalition has no questions for its ministers. Only people who have no understanding of the subject have no questions either. Because people who have an understanding of the subject, of course, have as many questions as possible on the substance. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “You know all the topics!” ) At the end. As is known, recent sociological surveys show that party financing for... The increase of five million has dramatically reduced and reduces the ratings of our President of State, of both the JIP and of Mr Bordan, and we will soon see this in the public space. If you want to keep your ratings, dear UKP, I have a call for an end to propaganda as a Communist and hope that society is uneducated and goes to an uneducated society, but just start working for society! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Ozola: “Do you worry about our ratings?” ) Just start working and fulfil your pre-election promises. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “Execute yours!” ; dep. S. Riekstins: “On departure! Let's help you get loaded!' ) The last one. Before the elections, I had a good relationship with Krišjānis Feldman. We went to a court sitting in one car together. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: “On the question!” ) That will be a question. We went to a sitting, and Krišjānis Feldman told me: “Policy. We will only be dealing with politics. Instead of helping people, let us do politics." Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U66	Thank you. The name is Sandy Riekstin. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Gobzem said, "Did you be allowed to speak?" ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U67	Hello, colleagues! I'm sorry, Utah, I don't match the speech. I'm not trying to do that. Neither did I give a painting book today. It's a bad day. However, colleagues, the request is “On the Minister’s public statements regarding pre-school teacher workload”. You talked about everything here, but not this one. Now there, on the left-hand side, those who say in their profiles in social networks that they, poor people, can't say, because the coalition calling it, spinning back and something else, themselves shout as if they hadn't at least eaten breakfast, if not worse... at times. But (Interior call.) ... They don't understand. Colleagues, if we now analyse each minister's statements somewhere and write requests about it, then we are afraid to do it. I cannot agree with Mrs. Liepiņa that the coalition should write someone... Then they won't have anything to do in this Saeima if we're still starting to write the petitions. Let's leave at least something for them. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “We haven’t talked about Riga City Council yet!” ) But now I will remind you of something that everyone here has forgotten. For preschool educators. Mrs Stepanenko was a candidate for elections from the list of 'Harmons'. Two years back to Riga City Council we are directly (Dep. A. Gobzem: “Two years ago! Latvian - two years ago!” ) encouraged to review the remuneration of these pre-school teachers, because pre-school educators moved from Riga mass to the municipalities of Pierīga, because there was an increase in remuneration. I myself as an employee of the Committee on Education, Culture and Sport... on several occasions we have addressed this issue - to assess, calculate and help. It was “Congregation” with “God to Serve Riga” that did not support it. More! In that committee, there was never a head of the PIZDA, nor of your people who, at that time, seemed to represent the educational staff. Let's finish once by jumping on the subject, trying to finish the defenders, even though you are not! Mrs Stepanenko, you did not even listen to the final part of that commission. Get up and go. And a journalist of the “we have agreed” about it. Every Tuesday morning when I go to the Request Commission, I meet one on my way... How can he be named so that there is no way for Mr. Feldman when a complaint is written?... Let's say that, for our country, it's not quite a friendly TV work that you've got. She's standing there every morning! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldmans: “Failure!” ) The First Baltic Channel, if you don't know what it is about. And your goal is to go and film there, and make a show, because she only interviewes the left flank (interface.) and fishing for sensation only. And actually what you're doing there is the purest show, nothing more! ( Internouncing call.) I'm glad that at last there's a minister who... When you don't have someone to snatch, then we're fishing some sentence and we're interpreting how we understood it. It is very good that the Minister, therefore, is fine with his work, if we already appreciate the statements. Then it's all right! What are you doing here? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “A did you pay the penalty for that cartel?” ) Mr Gobzem - I am sorry that in Latvia it has ever been a lawyer! Really! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U68	Thank you. Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U69	Colleagues! It seems to me that, in fact, for some Members, this is a self-vacuum. Yes, the proposal is about the Minister's public statements. And here, Mr. Riekstin, Member of Riekstin, you say: why are we analysing the minister's public statements? I will remind you that Latvia is a parliamentary republic. Executive powers - these are also ministers, they are responsible for what they say. I understand that ministers... in principle, the majority are responsible. The exception is the ministers of the New Conservative Party, who can do what they want and can say what they want. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Look at what you’ve been doing there in 10 years!” ) Have the ministers of this party done no harm to the reputation of the entire Latvian state? He did it. And! From the very beginning of Bordan, who dared and sent a letter to all foreign embassies (Dep. S. Riekstins: “It’s very right!” ), while shameing the country of Latvia. The same party and its minister...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U70	Please speak on the subject.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U71	... University of Latvia...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U72	Mr. Krauze...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U73	... He also shamed him. I'm talking about Šuplinska, it's her work and her words. The University of Latvia, which had to celebrate a centenary, has elected a rector of more than 300 participants of the Constitutional Meeting! Šuplinska has shamed the state of Latvia and destroyed the image of the state of Latvia by his actions and expressions. The question arises: what is the motive actually driven by the Minister of the New Conservative Party? They are definitely not in the interests of the state - they are the motives. They're in some kind of sponsor or self-interest. ( The utterances are: “Ooo! ” ) I therefore advise everyone to open their eyes and see if the New Conservative Party, with its ministers, acts in the interests of the State, or whether this action is something else's motive... I don't know where it comes from. ( Internoint.) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U74	Thank you. The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U75	Colleagues! I think that our task, as Members of Parliament, as one of the key tasks, is to evaluate the work of ministers, including the expression of ministers, because it is part of their work - to publicise their position and that of the government as a whole. After all, Parliament is in a way an employer to this government. And if one or the other minister expresses himself in a dubious way or contrary to Parliament's will, Parliament must correct this situation and make its assessment clear. This, of course, is not just about ministers. Of course, we, every Member, are free to express our views and, as you say, censorship is prohibited, but at a time when we, as officials, are also representing the country internationally... We do not represent ourselves, we represent the country. And the actions of officials who express strange views on, say, military invasions in another country must also be thought and evaluated... of which. But when you go back to the subject of education... We, the Commission on Sustainable Development, had yesterday, in my opinion, a different sitting than usual, and we already had fuel once... I mean, it wasn't just a time of fuel, but several times we went through... Our task now is to go through the National Development Plan. I'd say we agreed yesterday... Many agreed, and others did not object to the need for a different approach in the future of the country. We agreed that if we should prioritise. 1 in the country, it is high quality education, and the National Development Plan should also be developed around this priority, bringing to the attention of others - demographics, health and competitiveness. Today, when I hear its intertwined llamas, I would just call for us to have a similar atmosphere one day to catch or create ourselves here, so that we can discuss the country's most important, including the quality of education. I hope that we can get this, as you say, tows from the Commission on Sustainable Development into this room one day. Because we are listening to our constituents, and if that is what he hears not only from the Minister, but also from us: our view of education - pre-school, medium, higher - all these conflicts with the government (I will say, not only through one minister, through the government and the University of Latvia), failure to meet the promises of teachers' wage supplements, and so on, all this leads to one conclusion for the people who have delegated us. Not as slaves, not as leaders, but as an international word mentioned in the Constitution, as Members (from an English Member). We are the vices of society at a time when society does not have time to carry out a direct form of democracy every day. What do we tell them, both with the culture of such negotiations, their depth and, in fact, with the budget for next year? We say that quality education is your own concern - and only. Well, then... Of course, parents take care of it and take care of it, but they're just watching... They do not have time to wait when someone in Latvia will understand something after 20 years and will be able to prioritise it. Everyone's growing up kids, well... I think today's sitting of the Saeima is also encouraging us, as we say, to invite people to pack things and look for a place where someone... where you understand that high-quality education and a high-quality minister of education are the most important things for a nation. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U76	Thank you. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U77	Hello, colleagues! A long-term process is needed to grow a tree from the seed. It is also a long-term process of building democracy to make something meaningful from it. And this debate today shows that we are at the very beginning of the process. Unfortunately! Because what is happening here would simply not be possible in a normal democratic country, namely that coalition Members can teach members of the opposition what they... indicate in a direct text to them what questions they may ask, what questions they may not ask. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Agešins: “Enjoy power easily!” ) It is completely absurd! This indicates, colleagues, that someone has already, in principle, taken away from reality, from the legal norms established by our Constitution. For the fact that Latvia is a democratic state and power belongs to the people of Latvia. If you remembered this, there would be no such debate here. What you're pointing out to us, the opposition... to our opposition colleagues - why are we asking about public statements... Now I'm sorry... By leaving the level you can answer, we ask. Mr. Riekstins, you are yourself in the Commission for Petitions! You yourself have been when we examined the merits of the requests. We'll even take the same government's decision on medical fees. You were told... you've been asked to justify... for your government ministers, for your Prime Minister, to justify the government's decision, the government's rule of law as to how the government created this budget. Well, what was the result? You just didn't submit him because these... your ministers, like bunny, started to fight around the corners. And Karin even lied specifically so they shouldn't just come to the Saeima to answer. ( Internouncing call.) Remember, as was the case with the Ministry of Economics, when we asked to account for the irregularities that the Ministry of Economics is covering! They were not public statements; they were real facts. Then, too, nothing could be answered. What did you do? Your Members who came to this parliamentary election and promised openness, the rule of law, justice... For you, it was acceptable that there is no basis for a government decision on the rule of law? That's enough for you. You were good at that. So the question is, what can be done to the other leaders of the people in this situation? Do they allow what is happening in our country? In essence, you simply demonstrate that democracy and the rule of law are a fiction in our country. That it is a fairy tale. — Dep. A. Lejiņš: “Ivar, stop demagogue!” ) by which the ruling politicians feed society so that people can simply cirge to the last... and tell this fairy tale. In fact, democracy has been abducted in Latvia and there is simply a political cartel that does what it wants and does. And now it's not even too public to express it, to say it to the public, and to teach all the others what they can do and what they can't do. Colleagues! It is time to think seriously, because perhaps by continuing to do so, the people can very soon deprive you of this right to represent themselves here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U78	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Stepanenko, Sprūde, Liepāja, Gobzema, Papule and other request to the Minister of Education and Science Ilga Šuplinska “On public statements by the Minister regarding pre-school teacher workload”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 31, against - 49, abstaining - not. The request was rejected. Let's start with the legislative process. ( Internouncing call.) Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Real Estate State Cadastre”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U79	We have been working for three hours now, and I think all of us have prepared the materials for video rollers, and now we can go to the law design. As a first view, the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Cadastre of Real Estate”, which was reviewed by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission and prepared for the second reading, is urgent. The draft law was drafted by the Ministry of Justice and prepared to extend the implementation of the new cadastral value base. In total, 10 proposals were submitted to the draft law for second reading. Proposal No 1 is the proposal of Member Ilze Indricksone. On behalf of the Commission, I can say that we had a meaningful discussion in the Commission on this proposal and the conceptual State Land Service covered by this proposal (there were two proposals there at all: one Mrs Indriksones withdrew), promised to take it into account when drafting the Cabinet of Ministers' regulations. But the proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U80	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U81	2. - The Member's Armand Krauze's proposal. The proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U82	Let's start a debate. Please! Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U83	Dear Member of the Speaker of the Saeima. Really... I guess we can debate without cameras now. This proposal is linked to the fact that we have been talking about their only home for a long time in society. It does not matter how we call it primary or single housing. History is as follows: this issue has been put on the agenda several times. For the first time, the only housing was mentioned in May this year. Unfortunately, the Saeima - a coalition, to be more correct - rejected. Then, later on, the New Conservative led and said that it would move forward. It's somewhere... it's definitely left in the drawers for now. Now it is primary or only housing. But the essence is: if we want either to exempt primary or only housing from real estate tax and if it is related to the person's place of residence... and according to the existing law residence must be declared in accordance with the law, then the Real Estate State Cadastral Law should also indicate the declared place of residence, so that it can further determine and accordingly calculate which property is eligible for a tax credit and which are not. Of course, this is the preparation. It is in preparation for those Members and parties who promised to free the only home from real estate... from... I would therefore like to explain to some who do not understand what they are talking about at all. You are talking about primary housing. I could read it to be clear. There is such a Commission of Terminology of the Latvian Academy of Sciences and they have the dictionary “AkadTerm”. You are speaking what is “primary”. Thus, ‘primary housing’. This explains that the word ‘primary’ is ‘initial’, ‘basic’, ‘first’... I don’t know who’s there “the original dwelling” or what. If we look at the explanation for the word “only”, it is “one”, “one” and “one”. So we are talking about ‘one single house’, not many. And in this case, I think on behalf of the commission... Whoever comes here to speak as a Member, not on behalf of the Commission, before he comes and speaks should get acquainted with all these terms. But the idea remains the same. The idea remains both when we say “only” and “primary” and do not need to play here with words. It is about people who do not really have a lot of income. It does not matter whether we are saying "only" or "primary" but we are planning to exempt from tax to a certain amount. This means that the millionaires who live in Jurmala will in no case receive tax discounts for their property in full. According to the Satversme, the tax credit should be granted to all alike. Yes, we say that it is property worth up to 100,000. This means that most people living in rural areas, singles living in apartments, houses built in the 1950s, 60s and 70s - they will not pay real estate tax for their one-room, two-room or three-room apartment. And those millionaires who live in Jurmala - they will pay. That idea we all had – we don't need to play here with words, we really need a little time to go to school and get some instruction, only then come, get up in the podium and talk. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U84	Thank you. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U85	So we are talking about this proposal. Clearly, the problem, as we understand from my speech this morning, is precisely when it comes to housing. In my own family, family members are united in the countryside. They live in Riga, but they are single in Talsi region, for example, or in Talsi region. Inherited property usually has the supposed parts belonging to several children when inherited from deceased parents. That's what happens, Mr. Krauze. Who mostly has one house? For example, there are so many people living in China. For them this Kongarag apartment is the only apartment. They have never lived in Latvia, for example, in regions... and so on in other areas. And these people are focused, for example, on the “Harmony” and “GKR” coalition in Riga City Council, trying to exempt from real estate tax in every way, giving great discounts, for example, on the area, determining how many square meters can be for every person, and all these bills are kept. But, for example, if you live in the so-called Latvian district (and I think it's a problem that there is this division), for example, in Tornakalns, there is a real estate tax cut even for houses built in the last century. The single-family house is subject to tax of a thousand, two thousand euros a year. These people are not rich in the fact that they often own their homes for decades; they do not earn any more. So when I think about this problem, I can simply explain once more what I think this term, "primary housing", means. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Urbanovich: “I don’t know! Don’t!” ) Mr. Urbanovich will also be very useful. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Urbanovich: “I don’t know! I will not understand the same!” ) He has to tell colleagues of Riga City Council because, as we saw, here he also presented draft laws related to Riga City Council. The primary housing, in my sense, is such a residential area... The families... Well, in case of home... the property attached to it which belongs to a natural person who has declared his or her place of residence in that property. This, in my view, is primary housing. It is very good that all of this will be in the vernacular, because when the next time I start to talk about the only house (this concept was introduced by Inguna Silverba, because they are obviously not interested in Latvian people in the countryside or the property they have in the countryside), I will always be able to say: read the vernacular of its sitting, and there you will find out what, for example, in my sense, in the sense of the new conservatives, is the primary housing! This, of course, must be exempted from real estate tax to a certain value. And here is an ideological conflict (interface.) , because conservatives traditionally want to reduce taxes, while liberal forces want to increase taxes, including on real estate. ( FROM a faction: “Go now! ” ) Of course, there is also... and Social Democrats are a form of liberalism. ( Internouncing call.) That's why... Yes, Mr. Urbanovich, you have to get to know it... Before you call yourself a Social Democratic Party, you need to understand what they are about the terms you use in the title, please! Because there are problems with this... In any case, this proposal... we young Conservatives did not support this in the Commission. Mr Krauze also has another similar proposal... Also at the end of this bill. We can go back one more time... I can explain once more why the only housing cannot be... In general, I call every person not to confuse the mind to the public, to talk about... If you don’t like the word “primary”, talk about the place of residence or, for example, the place where a person lives or... you can use longer... “Primary” - it just sounds shorter to me and therefore more reasonable. This is the case for this proposal. We did not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U86	Thank you. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U87	First of all, I would call on Mr Feldman not to create hatred between the people of Talsi and the people of Kongarag. Put the people of Kongarag in a different position there - it really is not good or bad for the Saeima. ( Internouncing call.) Mr. Feldman! There is no such legal term - "primary housing". The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. ( K. Feldman's intermediate call.) In this particular case, I will remind you, as Members of the Saeima, of a legal document - a law. And the law uses legal terms. So let us be right! The term ‘primary dwelling’ does not exist. There is no such legal term! So stop misleading the community. Stop misleading the community! ( Internouncing call.) The other thing that has to be said. It is understandable why you deceive the public. Finally, it became clear to me what is actually meant by the combination of the words "uncompromising justice". ‘ Uncompromising rule of law’ - meaning (interim.) to cheat without compromise. ( Internoint.) Thank you. Thank you very much. That means cheating and talking... talk about how it could be further delayed without a compromise. In principle, ‘uncompromising justice’ means an uncompromising alliance of frauds. And the same applies to this issue. You are saying that you want to reduce the real estate tax. Then reduce it, not talk about it! It is also a deceptive matter, when people are told: “We want to reduce it, but we will address it in a year, two or ten.” You can solve this today. Reduce real estate tax for people today! Cancel this tax today for the single house or, as you say, Mr Feldman, for the primary house. Today, however, you are not doing this, because today you are in a situation of "uncompromising justice". ( Milestones.) Dear people! Listen very carefully. Listen to what the Member says to you. He says he wants you to reduce the tax. But he doesn't do that in his works. And that is the most important thing to say in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U88	Thank you. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U89	Dear colleagues, We really have an interesting exchange of words today with the “new Communists” here in the Saeima. But, Mr. Feldman! I understand that when you took part in the pre-election fights, you also read various public initiatives, you must know such portal ManaBalss.lv, probably you are allowed to use the Internet if, in the political group? Okay. The ManaBalss.lv portal has collected a record number of signatures - 52 884 signatures - under the initiative whose name is (I will read to you if you are not online): “On the abolition of real estate tax on the only property.” ( Internouncing call.) This is an initiative that has been signed by 52 884 people, which you called anti-state forces, both at last sitting and at this sitting! And the author of the initiative is Liana Hirschson, not Inguna Silverba. Inguna Silverba was a member of the Saeima, she made proposals just as we are now making. But at the moment you have disdained not only these 52 884 people, but also Riga, Riga residents, China... ( Milestones.) I understand that you are enjoying power right now. You start to ban other Members from changing commissions, you start to ban other Members from operating in associations. You're all-powerful. Your numbs are being executed by the coalition while it's still in. But most likely if you get to power even more, you will certainly create segregation in Riga, you will definitely want to delineate some districts where your voters do not live. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strīķe: “You have already made segregation in Riga!” ) You are more likely to do so. Finally... I think I could tell you one story about a man. S. Riekstins: “You’re just telling stories!” (See the box below.) Who couldn't take the skis all the time. He was hiding in winter, winter was over, but he was also driving with those skis in summer, and always complained that their skis were not slipping. People were already apt to listen that their skis were not slipping, and they said, “Well, take off those skis!” But Mr. Feldman still rides with the same skis: “Riga City Council... “ You’ve been driving like you did a year ago, and you’re going to go on and on. ” — Dep. Mr Strike: "It's about the proposal?" ) below. But you have been specially elected here in the Saeima to amend the laws, not to complain about how you have never slipped. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Feldmans: “On the proposal!” ) You are simply currently authorised (Internal references.) make life better, but you don't. ( Milestones.) I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U90	Thank you. Name to Member Armand Kraus for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U91	Yeah. I would like to return to my proposal and I should like to thank Mr Feldman. Feldman: “Feldman!” ) that you explained... very good what you think with this primary housing. Ladies, listen to me, too, not to chat! And the primary housing... I really agree with your explanation that it is a dwelling belonging to that particular person and in which he is declared. Now come back to my proposal! My proposal is not entirely in contradiction with what this Member said. Listen to me! ‘ ... if the owner of the real estate (building) is a natural person (interim call.) - his declared place of residence." So his declared place of residence is indicated in this Law, the Real Estate State Cadastre Law, in accordance with the procedure laid down in the cadastre system. And it's necessary to... no matter what it is called - whether primary housing or the only one, but if we are to move towards it at all, this system must have the information. And also to Member Feldman (Dep. J. Strike: “Feldman!” Medicines cause noise.) ... Feldmanim (Interface.) It should be considered that, by rejecting this proposal (Dep. Feldman: “Hi, man, you earn an ethic!” )... Rejecting this proposal, he actually runs counter to the fact that he promised that such a policy should come against those who live in rural unification. In your vote against, you say that it is not necessary.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U92	Thank you. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U93	Thank you, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima, for the way in which linguists speak my surname in life. I invite members of the opposition, whose parties are currently led by Riga, Ventspils, Liepaja, Jelgava, Rēzekne, Daugavpils... including, for example, the municipality of Jelgava... municipalities with the right at any time granted by the legislator to impose real estate tax on land... 0.2 per cent, not 1.5 per cent... 0.2 can also be detected... I call for an immediate address to the managers of my municipality. Now! Mrs Stepanenko, today, even say to the husband, to urge the committee to adopt amendments to the binding rules of this particular municipality, with an appropriate exemption... in the case of real estate tax for residents of a particular municipality! If you do not - you have not done this so far (from the Group's point of view: 'This is not about the proposal!' ), and also now you are just coming with populism to do – then you are... nothing more than hypocrites. Because your real desire is to sabotage the release of primary housing from real estate tax - with various legal tricks, with populism, discrediting this idea. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U94	Thank you. The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U95	I wanted to make two small remarks. One, about the work of the commission and the Saeima... Well, let's say, quality. I heard Armanda... encyclopedia quotations. I heard Armande's opinion on a certain term. I heard Krišjānis private - not as commission manager, but private! - the opinion he understands. And I understand the joy that this will be on the vernacular. But maybe the commission could get to some common definition - if we look at the bill - what we really decide about and what we understand. That's the job... Well, probably a question of legal quality. My call is this: not to make this theatre here, but simply to get in the commission some normal formulation, the definition that we are talking about. Then we can argue whether “yes” or “no” or otherwise. And the other thing bothers me more seriously. I heard clearly from the chairman of the commission - but I guess he was speaking as an individual Member at that point - that the global view of this issue is... at the same time, try to share the voter... for party elites... and analyze, let's tell you what the benefits or the bad things of it... who has voted in theory and who lives... In my opinion, this is, to say the least, an incentive to act contrary to the fundamental principles of the Constitution. And I think... I think... if I understand correctly, this matter should be considered by the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications or by any other commission. Because if there is an urge to share people in such an amendment of the law, in accordance with their political views and yet to place their place of residence, then I think it is a very clear incentive to violate the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia... they are essentially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U96	Thank you. The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U97	Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas! I ask you to tell your party member, Mr Feldman, who constantly mentions the family of Member Stepanenko, who has nothing to do with the proposal under consideration. Mr Feldman, I call on you not to do so - just as we do not mention your relationship with your loved ones from the platform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U98	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U99	Dear colleagues, Recalling what is currently being discussed, I call for support to Mr Krauze's proposal, as it is in line with the ManaBalss.lv initiative. Likely, with the initiative that you all called on the coalition colleagues to support in the run-up to the election, because it was one of the topics of real estate... The real estate tax was one of the topics of the pre-election debate, and the pre-election debate was very beautiful for all of you. You have all promised what you are now trying to turn into in a completely different way. Because what Mr Feldman is proposing is absolutely the opposite of what the people now want, who stand up for the abolition of real estate tax on the single house, want. Finally, indeed, I could also discuss the rights of children with Mr Feldman, but the issue of life could also be discussed, but it is probably not within this parliamentary tribunal. Finally, I would also like to talk about the fact that you are probably still stuck in the Soviet times in your new Communist thinking, because only in the Soviet times was it possible for you to tell the director of the colhoza something, to cry, and then he will do it to you. Well, that's not what's happening. There's legislation. There is a legislative process and there are rules of procedure for the Authority. So thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U100	Thank you. I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur want to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U101	The proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U102	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The Member's Armand Krauze's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U103	Thank you for the substantive debate. Keep moving! 3. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U104	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U105	4. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U106	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U107	5. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. The Commission has partially supported and included 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U108	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U109	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U110	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U111	7. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. The Commission has partially supported and included 8. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U112	There is no objection by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U113	8 / 8 - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U114	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U115	9. - The Member's Armand Krauze's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U116	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U117	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U118	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U119	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Long, but meaningful, and on behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U120	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Real Estate State Cadastre Law” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption - Member Mārtiņš Staķis. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U121	Dear colleagues, honourable colleagues! ( Milestones.) Can I continue?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U122	Let's go! Let's go!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U123	Member of the President, may continue if? Dear colleagues, honourable colleagues! In the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, we examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia”, which was about awarding service grades to the specialists of the Landguard, as well as rules for wearing uniforms. Four proposals were received for the third reading, all of them of a technical nature. 1. - The proposal by Mārtiņš Staķis, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, which is a technical clarification. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U124	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U125	2. - the proposal of this same Mr, which is a technical clarification. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U126	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U127	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible specifying the transitional provisions. It was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U128	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U129	And 4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U130	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U131	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U132	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guards” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U133	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U134	Thank you. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Fire and Fire”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Edwin Šnore.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U135	Hello, dear colleagues! The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption reviewed the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Fire Safety and Fire” at its meeting on 15 October this year. Four proposals were received for the third reading. 1. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. The proposal was supported and included in proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U136	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U137	2. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U138	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U139	3. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U140	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U141	And 4. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U142	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U143	Please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U144	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Fire Safety and Fire” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. Thank you. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Edwin Šnore.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U145	At its meeting on 15 October, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia” and prepared it for the third reading. Three proposals were received from the Legal Bureau. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U146	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U147	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U148	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U149	And 3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U150	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U151	Please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U152	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Thank you. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Air Passenger Data Processing Act’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Edwin Šnore. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U153	At its meeting on 16 October, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Aircraft Passenger Data” and prepared it for the third reading. The Commission received and examined eight proposals. 1. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U154	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U155	2. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U156	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U157	3. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U158	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U159	4. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U160	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U161	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U162	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U163	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U164	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U165	7. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. Partly supported and included 8. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U166	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U167	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U168	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U169	Please support the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U170	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Aircraft Passenger Data” third, final, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Thank you. Next bill - “Amendments to the Hunting Act”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Vitenbergs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U171	Hello, colleagues! We worked in the Commission and prepared for the third reading a draft law "Amendments to the Hunting Act". When I discussed the hunts from this platform in the past, things turned out to be quite passionate. This is a draft codification law. I hope we do not have a debate. 1. - the proposal from the committee responsible, where we specify, the word "power" shall be replaced by "energy". Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U172	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U173	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U174	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U175	Thank you. 3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. In fact, this is a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture, but it was submitted by the Ministry after the deadline for the submission of proposals. The proposal lays down penalties for mass hunting, which may contribute to the extinction of the species. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U176	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U177	4. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U178	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U179	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Just like the previous one, it's editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U180	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U181	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U182	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U183	7. - a proposal from the responsible commission determining the penalties to be applied in the event of failure to comply with the obligations imposed on the hunting operator. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U184	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U185	8 / 8 - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U186	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U187	Please support the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U188	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Hunting Law” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. Thank you. Next bill - “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Genetically Modified Organisms”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U189	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Genetically Modified Organisms” at third reading. Five proposals were received from the Legal Bureau. All are editorial corrections. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U190	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U191	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U192	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U193	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U194	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U195	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U196	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U197	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U198	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U199	Please support the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U200	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Genetically Modified Organisms” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Thank you. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Safety of Goods and Services”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - Member Romanas Naudins... ( Internouncing call.) There's no... Member Wittenberg. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U201	In the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy we examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Safety of Goods and Services”. We received three proposals. 1. - the proposal of Minister for Economics Ralfa Nemiro, which provides that the list of European standards will no longer be published in the Official Journal of Latvia, but will be published on www.lvs.lv. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U202	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U203	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U204	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U205	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U206	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U207	Please support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U208	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Safety of Goods and Services” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Thank you. Draft law “Amendments to the Fisheries Act”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Arthur Rubik.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U209	Hello, colleagues! We work with document number 1529 - ‘Amendments to the Fishing Law’. This document contains a total of 21 proposals. These relate to codification. 1. - the proposal by Mr Ples, Parliamentary Secretary, Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U210	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U211	2. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Grassberg. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U212	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U213	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U214	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U215	4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U216	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U217	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U218	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U219	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U220	Members have no reservations.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U221	7. - The proposal by Mr Grassberg, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. Partly supported and included in proposal 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U222	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U223	8 / 8 - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U224	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U225	9. - The proposal by Mr Grassberg, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. Partly supported and included in proposal 10.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U226	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U227	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U228	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U229	11. - the proposal by Mr Ples, Parliamentary Secretary, Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U230	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U231	12. - The proposal by Mr Grassberg, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. Partly supported and included in proposal 14.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U232	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U233	13. - the proposal by Mr Ples, Parliamentary Secretary, Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Partly supported and included 14. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U234	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U235	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U236	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U237	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U238	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U239	16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U240	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U241	17. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U242	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U243	18. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U244	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U245	19. - the proposal by Mr Ples, Parliamentary Secretary, Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Partly supported and included 20. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U246	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U247	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U248	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U249	And 21. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U250	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U251	On behalf of the Commission, please support this draft law at third, final, reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U252	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Fisheries” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Thank you. Draft Act ‘Amendment to the Statistics Act’, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Sergej Dolgopolovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U253	Dear colleagues, This is one of the draft laws of the codification series. The Commission has received four proposals for a third reading. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. An editorial proposal supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U254	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U255	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U256	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U257	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U258	Members agree with the Commission's decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U259	4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported. Associated with the transitional provisions and the procedure for the entry into force of the law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U260	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U261	Consequently, all proposals have been considered. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the third, final reading of the draft Law on Statistics.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U262	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Statistics Act” in the third, final, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Thank you. Next bill - Amendments to the Law on Epidemiological Safety, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Normunds Gunna. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U263	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs prepared for third reading a draft law on “Amendments to the Law on Epidemiological Safety”. This is a draft codification law. In the absence of any proposals for a third reading, I therefore call on you to support this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U264	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Epidemiological Safety" in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Thank you. Next bill - Amendments to the Packaging Act, third reading. Draft law with a very large number of proposals. Maybe we... start watching after a break? ( Milestones.) Time to break. Please check-in mode! Name for reading the results of the registration to the Secretary of the Saeima Andrejs Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U265	High honourable Members! Not registered: Aldis Adamovičs... No, Aldis Blumbergs... No, Boris Cilevič... I don't see, Jānis Dūklavs... No, Mary Golubeva... No, I'm not, Inese Rectsen... No, Richard Cole... No, Maris Kučinskis... No, Inara Mūrniece... No, Roman Money... No, Dan Reizer-Ozol... No, Ivan Ribakov... I see in the hall, Jānis Vucāns, Evita Zālīte-Gross. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U266	Thank you. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U267	Dear colleagues, We're back in our places. Let's keep sitting. Mr. Pavilut is. Let's keep sitting. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Packaging Act’. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Mr Daniel Pavluts. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U268	Dear Member of the Speaker of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, I am warning you in advance that I am going to report for quite a long time. We are looking at the draft law "Amendments to the Packaging Act" at third reading. It has been prepared by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. What I would like to say is: can you guess how many years this issue has been discussed in the Saeima? ( The utterances: “19! ” ; “19!” ) 19 - quite precisely! The debate started in 2001, but the Packaging Act was adopted in 2002. We will now amend this law. And the main theme of the discussion is the tare deposit. In time, the legislator intended to introduce a voluntary tare deposit. As we all know, such a voluntary tare deposit has never happened in these 19 years. Thus, the amendments to the Packaging Law that have been reviewed by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy are precisely on this subject - on implementation of tare deposit. It is a moral duty of our Saeima, this parliamentary term - to finally tell the public that tara deposit will be in Latvia. We received the specific draft law from the previous Saeima. It required significant improvements. In particular, there were a lot of proposals and a lot of discussions just before the third reading. It was a little different from the usual order. Because while the commission was swinging, it was understood what the legislator's will was, and VARAM prepared appropriate amendments... Then we really did a lot of work to examine this draft law. There are 67 proposals, including some, which are really large, so I will try to carefully remove colleagues today through the substance of these amendments. Please apologize in advance that it will take some time. 1. - a proposal from Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U269	Members...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U270	The Member encouraged the creation of a package register. As VARAM acknowledged, overall, the case is to be supported, but not at this moment. The MoEPRD provides for such a register to be established at a later stage, to a greater extent. And its development will take a considerable time. At the moment, however, the proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U271	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U272	Proposal No 2 Member Arturs Toms Plēšs suggested to include in the draft law an extended definition of deposit, namely to extend the principle of deposit not only to packaging of drinks, packaging of beverages, but also to other types of packaging, namely packaging of goods. This would allow the future expansion of the deposit system beyond traditional plastic and glass bottles and aluminium cans. There was a very hot debate on this in our committee and, ultimately, the majority of the committee did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U273	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U274	Hello, fellow Members, again! I would like to say that after 11 months of working in the commission we have come to the historical decision to decide whether to have a deposit system in Latvia. As Daniel Pavlut said, the 19-year discussions today are likely to end. There is no doubt that the deposit system is necessary and it will start its work in 2022. About it Development/About! He has been a firm member since the election. However, these 19 years have seen a significant change in technological development, a growing problem with environmental pollution and clear targets for the collection and recycling of packaging. For example, in 2025 Latvia will have to collect 77 percent of disposable PET bottles separately, while already in 2029 this figure will reach 90 percent. By 2030 70 per cent of the entire primary packaging will have to be re-used or recycled. Taking these factors into account, I propose a solution that... in the future could accept... more about cans, plastic and glass bottles... e.g. glass jars, which can also be reused. I offer Latvia to become a modern solution implementer and developer so that we are modern not only in words, but also in works. We see that IT and artificial intelligence companies are capable in Latvia, which can offer innovative and modern deposit machines. Our task is to strengthen the capacity of local entrepreneurs to export innovative products and thus make Latvia all richer. Unfortunately, the Commission did not support this vision by rejecting a modern and sustainable deposit system that could serve as an example for the world. I have to say, I am not the only one who sees the benefits of the deposit system in a broader context. Both environmental organisations and public institutions have indicated that a broader scope and gradual development of the deposit system would be necessary in view of the environmental challenges that await us in the coming decade. I would like to emphasise that last week, too, the Alliance of Rethink Plastic, which brings together important environmental organisations in Europe, published a number of recommendations to ensure an active transition to a re-use culture. One of the recommendations also affected the deposit system. It should accept more than bottles. Development/About! considers it necessary to start with the classic system and to add other forms of packaging later. It would have been important to define in the future the broader scope of the law already in time to create the conditions for the development of a modern deposit system and to make the deposit operator choose innovative technologies that can be programmed and adapted to other types of packaging. We need to go ahead and we need to put in place a deposit system. At the same time, taking care of the environment and the responsible use of resources, we need to look at how we can make this system more modern (also in the version supported by the Commission), which means adding other forms of packaging for beverages in this case. The most important thing is to create citizens' confidence that the deposit system will start work on 1 February 2022. I therefore withdrew my proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U275	Thank you. Name to Member Janis Dombrava. ( Interface: “There is no more to debate! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U276	Dear Saeima! I can join the draft law rapporteur in saying that this is a long-standing issue and that it has come through a great deal of resistance. In Lithuania, Estonia, by taking such a bottle, it can be placed in a deposit machine and recover the money paid back. Such a case cannot be done in Latvia, but it will be possible to do it in the very near future. At the moment I am very pleased that the initiative, which, despite the lobby that worked against, started its way in the previous Saeima, was driven by the then Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Kaspars Gerhards, also referring to the signatures collected by ManaBals.lv regarding the establishment of such a deposit system... And now this draft law will allow us to... The wording supported by the Commission will finally allow for the introduction of a system of deposit of packaging of beverages. At the same time, however, we understand that we need to think with a view to the future, because this deposit system should cover a much wider range of types of packaging than is currently defined by law. But first of all, we have to do this first step: to introduce a deposit system for the packaging of beverages. It is important to ensure that the technologies that we buy in the country are valid so that this extended deposit system, as discussed by the proposer, can also be established. And this in turn will enable us to create in the near future both a system of packaging deposit of drinks and a potential view of much wider collection of packaging. I call for support to be given in the legislative version supported by the Commission and for no proposal not supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U277	Thank you. The name is Mr. Janis Wittenberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U278	Colleagues! Here in the Saeima, and so to speak, the Saeima has been talking about the implementation of the deposit system in Latvia for more than 15 years, but in reality we have not yet reached as far as we are now. I would like to thank the Commission staff and the members of the Commission very much for being able to get together so far. I will remind you what has happened and why this system has not yet been introduced. In particular, there has been quite a counter-sparence, and there is a slightly strange situation that the political forces, which attribute to themselves the green idea and the defence of the green lifestyle, have proved to be the biggest opponents of this system. On the other hand, Members who, until recently, shouted that the deposit system should not be introduced are now those who say that it is necessary to introduce, but that it is even more serious than has been said so far. And it's not a secret that a very serious resistance all the time was a well-funded PR machine in this waste sector that passed over the basic idea it had at first. I'm really happy that we've reached the third reading. And it is rather strange that now, when we look at draft laws at third reading, there are so many proposals. Now I will perhaps not find the reasons why it is so much at third reading, but now I have some suspicion, which I have also expressed. And in the last year... By taking the lead of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, I did not even know how serious this project is and how serious people's interest in the project is. And in the last year, even on the Saeima premises... The three commissions have addressed this issue. This has been discussed in various TV programmes, conferences and other areas. So it seems that everything is absolutely... Totally pronounced. Yeah... And if we still decided to talk about some extension or something else, then I think we should spend at least 15 more years on these discussions. So, as I said, thank you very much to those involved. And let's support the Commission's proposals and let's go! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U279	I closed the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U280	3. - a proposal from Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola. It was not supported - just like the previous proposal. It was proposed to extend the definition of a deposit. Rejected by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U281	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U282	4. - Mr Armands Krauze's proposal to supplement the definition of the deposit system with a description of its principle. The Commission rejected because these issues were dealt with elsewhere in the law, namely 57. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U283	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U284	5. - a editorial proposal proposed by the Legal Bureau which provides for the purpose of the deposit system to be removed from its definition. Incorporated in 10. - the Commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U285	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U286	6. - Mr Plesz's proposal, which relates to the proposal on the extended definition, which has now been withdrawn. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U287	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U288	Members don't mind, huh? 7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is editorial and included in 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U289	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U290	8 / 8 - a proposal from Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola. This involves extending the scope of the deposit system to the second reading. In essence, it has been resolved 57. - the Commission's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U291	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U292	9. - the proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Proposal for a VARAM version on time-limits for clarification in previous articles. Partially supported, included 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U293	Members have no reservations.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U294	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the committee responsible, which summarises the Commission's vision of the terms in the Articles examined above, in the light of the proposals referred to above. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U295	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U296	11. - the proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. The explanation of the term “packager” is edited so that everywhere in the draft law it coincides with the wording of the existing law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U297	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U298	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Associated with 13. - Legal Office and 14. - the proposal of Mr Juris Pūce, Minister for the Environment and Regional Development, partly supported and incorporated in 15. - on a proposal from the Commission, introducing in Article 3 (3) the term "seller of the deposit packaging". Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U299	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U300	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U301	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U302	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U303	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U304	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U305	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U306	16. - the proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Editable, change the term “use of packaging” on “re-use and preparation for re-use”. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U307	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U308	17. - the proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Editable. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U309	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U310	18. - the proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Addressed 57. - the Commission's proposal, but the Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U311	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U312	19. - the proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Provision is made for a delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the performance of the deposit system operator. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U313	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U314	Colleagues! Please give me a little attention! As a result of the discussions, the commission decided to significantly change the structure of the draft law. Previously, in the draft law, the deposit system was described in Article 18, but the commission decided to transfer the description to a new chapter III1. Consequently, future proposals (from 20 to 56) cannot be put to the vote. There is a possible debate on them, and I will also present the substance of these proposals, but they cannot be voted on. So the most important thing will then be 57. - the Commission proposal, which then also sets out the new model for the deposit system. 20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, to exclude Article 18. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U315	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U316	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola. It is envisaged to extend the scope of the deposit scheme to waste management operators. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U317	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U318	22. - The proposal from Member Arthur Thomas Plesh. Related to the withdrawn proposal for an extended deposit scheme. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U319	There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U320	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - It's a similar proposal from Member Arthur Thomas Pleis. This was also not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U321	There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U322	24. - The proposal from Member Arthur Thomas Plesh. This is linked in one part to the withdrawal of the extended deposit proposal and to the avoidance of cash transactions in the event of automated acceptance of containers. It has been resolved further 57. - the Commission's proposal (Article 18.5). The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U323	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U324	25. - the proposal of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola, which, like the previous proposal, encourages the avoidance of cash transactions at automated tare acceptance points. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U325	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U326	26. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is editorial, included 57. - the Commission's proposal. Partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U327	There is no objection by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U328	27. - the proposal of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola, which provides for the inclusion of waste management operators into the scope of deposit fees. Incorporated 57. - the Commission's proposal. Partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U329	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U330	28. - The proposal from Member Arthur Thomas Plesh. It is clarified that the deposit system does not apply to packages exported outside the European Union or to countries of the European Economic Area or consumed during transport. Incorporated 57. - the Commission's proposal. Partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U331	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U332	29. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It was supported and included in proposal 57. It is envisaged to reduce the exemptions from the deposit system in respect of packaging marketed in a market, in a kiosk or in a service station.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U333	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U334	Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U335	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U336	30. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It was supported. Like the previous one, this is included in proposal 57. It is also envisaged to narrow the exceptions to the deposit system, in this case, with regard to the right of municipalities to grant permission not to accept the deposit packaging in the territory of small municipalities... in commercial halls of more than 60 square metres. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U337	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U338	31. - a proposal from Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Incorporated in proposal 57. Provision shall be made for ensuring, where the coverage of the deposit system is insufficient, acceptance of the container (package) at the separate collection points or at the reception points of the container. The issue is addressed in 57. - in the Commission's proposal, as I said. The proposal has been partly supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U339	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U340	32. - a proposal from Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola. The part of the proposal, which provides for a part of the deposit fee to be received by the waste management operator, was rejected, but the part that the Public Service Regulatory Commission regulates the amount of the deposit fee... 57 are addressed. - the Commission's proposal. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U341	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U342	33. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The 57th proposal has been incorporated and partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U343	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U344	34. - the proposal by Member Armands Krauze that packers, traders and waste managers are equally represented in the deposit system operator and its board. The Commission did not support this proposal as it considers that the deposit scheme operator should be created without the presence of waste managers and that it should be possible for itself to decide and agree on participation, and therefore it is not appropriate to reflect the principle of parity in the law. The proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U345	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U346	35. - Member Roman Money's proposal, which, like the previous one, provided parity between the deposit packers and traders of the deposit system operators - but without waste... operators. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U347	Members (Interface: “Vote!” )... Not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U348	Colleagues, I would remind you that the 20-56 proposal cannot be put to the vote. Thank you for your vigilance. 36. - Mr Plesz's proposal, which relates to proposal 2 already withdrawn... on the extended deposit. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U349	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U350	37. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. The proposal 57 was supported and incorporated.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U351	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U352	38. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable, precise. Incorporated in proposal 57. Partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U353	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U354	39. - An offer from Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola, which offers to choose a deposit system operator in a private and public partnership procedure. The Commission supported the tender model and therefore this proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U355	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U356	40. - An offer from Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola, which offers to set up a Deposit System Monitoring Board. This issue is resolved 59. - on a proposal from the Commission, Article 21. This proposal, in turn, was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U357	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U358	41. - The Member's Armand Krauze's proposal. These proposals and the next three are, in fact, the same. They intend to define the role of the SPRK under the control of a deposit system operator that is essentially a monopoly. This issue is addressed in proposal 57. So 41. - Armand Krauze's proposal - not supported... to be more precise, apologies, partially supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U359	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U360	42. - That's Mr. Roman Moneys's proposal. Partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U361	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U362	43. - The proposal by Member Arthur Thomas Plesh about the same. This has also been partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U363	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U364	And finally 44. - a proposal from Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Some support has also been given.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U365	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U366	45. - The legal bureau's proposal, which is editorial. 57 were included. - in the Commission's proposal - and partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U367	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U368	46. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is proposed to delete the requirement to submit the statutes of the tenderer in a tender procedure which is not a matter of law. The procedure is included in proposal 57. Partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U369	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U370	47. - a proposal from Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Similar 48. - To the proposal of Member Arthur Thomas Plesh. Proposals for different variants of criteria for assessing applications by deposit system operators. The Commission supported the criteria set out in the MoEPRD proposal 57. These are: territorial coverage of the reception points of the deposit, the recycled volume as a percentage of the target and the number of packaging units of the packaging of the represented packaging. That's 47. - the proposal of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola - was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U371	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U372	48. - The proposal from Member Arthur Thomas Plesh. This was not supported either.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U373	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U374	49. - a proposal from Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola. It is proposed to clarify the contract procedures between the deposit system operator and the State Environment Service. Solved 57. - in the proposal of the committee responsible, as well as the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers will be further addressed. The proposal was partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U375	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U376	50. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's like a previous one. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U377	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U378	51. - The proposal from Member Arthur Thomas Plesh. Associated with his withdrawal of proposal 2 on the extended deposit. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U379	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U380	52. - a proposal from Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Provision shall be made for a reference to the extended deposit and shall include waste management operators in the deposit system. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U381	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U382	53. - The proposal from Member Arthur Thomas Plesh. Applies to withdrawn... on the extended deposit. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U383	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U384	54. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable, see 57. - the Commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U385	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U386	55. - a proposal from Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Provides for the creation of a packaging register, already in proposal 3 was rejected. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U387	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U388	56. - the proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It is a huge proposal that brings together the various proposals mentioned above for the establishment of a deposit system operator. Developed and included 57. - the Commission's proposal. Partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U389	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U390	Finally, colleagues, there are 57. - the proposal of the committee responsible, the proposal to be put to the vote. Provides for what constitutes this new chapter, Chapter III1, - describes the essential aspects of the deposit system, including operators (two groups: packaging manufacturers and traders), the choice of the deposit system operator and the criteria (which I have already mentioned in one of the previous proposals) and the authorities involved in supervision - the State Environment Services and the Public Service Regulatory Commission. The operational term of the deposit system operator is also agreed here. It will be seven years. A delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers has been included, the issue of the continuity of operation of the deposit system operator and the use of infrastructure has been addressed, and many, many other issues that I will not present at the moment. 57. - the proposal of the committee responsible - the draft law is the main one. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U391	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Raimond Bergman.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U392	Member of the very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Members and Members! Any draft law that enters the agenda of the Saeima regulates a certain area in order to achieve a certain objective. Despite the increasingly complex daily life in various areas, that is our challenge, colleagues, to make the legal framework simple to apply, making society's daily life more comfortable. The discussion of the packaging deposit system has already become a long-term process, where most of its participants have probably forgotten the initial goal of introducing the deposit system. Once again, a very important issue for society is being discussed and discussed, until the public either loses interest in whether they really don't understand what purpose it was started for. We must express this goal to society so easily that every citizen of Latvia feels that we Members are working here for him and society. The aim of the current law is to ensure development of packaging production, progressive implementation of packaging technologies and rational management system of used packaging. At second reading, it was assumed that the purpose of the deposit system is to ensure maximum volumes of packaging collection, recycling, recovery and re-use. There is no doubt that sorting packaging and recycling as much as possible is essential to preserve nature and reduce the increasing use of resources. This is particularly important to me as a representative of the Green Party. Let every citizen become aware of their role in maintaining a clean and sustainable nature. However, this also means the need to invest in the establishment and maintenance of the system. And now, attention! What means? Who will pay for it? Is the investment worth it? Will they be used wisely enough and in such a way that future generations appreciate our actions today as far-sighted? So that's not that based on a coalition-led bill, we actually... We will pay both more expensive and delivery of beverage packaging for recycling will be difficult and time-consuming, and... Efforts are being made to implement what our neighbour Estonia has already recognised as obsolete. I don't want to think that the current solutions for the deposit system... There is a lobby for narrow interest groups. Colleagues, in metaphors, - the mafia will earn huge money while ordinary Latvian citizens will pay for it. Will we be sure with this solution that our waste management farm will become more efficient? And in the area of waste management, do we not really need to address issues that threaten to turn into a disaster if we do not deal with them in time? Colleagues, let us not forget that, for example, the capacity of the Getlini Waste Treatment landfill ( SIA “Getlini EKO”) will be available only for seven years! What happens then? Will the deposit system solve this issue? In the context of administrative territorial reform, is it also considered which municipality will be the one that, in seven years' time, will be ready to collect, store safely and, at best, sort and recycle R & D waste? How much art will the deposit system have provided, which we will accept today? I strongly support the implementation of the deposit system, but I believe that once again we ignore the principle of good law discussed in the Constitutional Court, because the draft law has not been fully debated and raises more questions (interfaces.) than to give answers. ( Milestones.) Listen to me why I said that! You didn't hear what I said. The Constitutional Court already decided on this - how we choose... and how we work on the law. In conclusion, I would like to call on my fellow Members: do not be afraid to take responsibility, to risk and accept the challenges we face today! Looking at what modern technologies can provide us with in terms of waste sorting! Artificial intelligence... No, we will have technologies that sort bottles of drinks according to their size, colors and perhaps other different parameters, without human involvement, saving our most valuable resource - time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U393	Mr. Bergman, time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U394	Colleagues! Let's not waste our... The time of Latvian residents, attracting... Everything... with outdated methods! ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U395	Mr. Bergman, time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U396	We have the opportunity today and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U397	Time, Mr. Bergman! Your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U398	Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U399	Thank you. The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U400	Colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) This saga is indeed with a very, very long history. I remember another... I had to... instead of having to, I had the honour of chairing the Council of the Latvian Food Company Federation for several years. And this was one of the “hot potatoes”. The producers of beverages were against the introduction of the system at the time. That was a fact. But what do I mean? Today, we're actually... If we look at what the end result will be for this... And this law may help to do this, but in no way does it guarantee to do it; Satan will be in detail. To be honest, one can no longer understand who represents it. But one could draw three such directions, and there are three possibilities with which it will end. The first option is nothing. That he won't. It is very credible in the light of our experience. And behind this opportunity there are very serious finances... those who are not interested in this system. I do not want to insult anyone, but I see something from this situation in some of the proposals. That's one chance. The second option. The second worst option (I will start with those worst options) is to introduce it... in that sense... a product of a system that is a monopoly of one company, not a Latvian company in the world. (What is in Estonia is different... ) Not only is it not in the economic interest of Latvia, but it is also not in the environmental interest, because this system is indeed morally outdated and does not guarantee the collection of this waste to the extent that it can be implemented today, for a simple reason: the system reads only a barcode on the label or anywhere else where it is located. In particular, if the label is damaged (not to mention bottles or packaging that feeds in the forest!) This machine does not read the barcode and this production cannot be collected. This would be absolutely the wrong end result, both economically and environmentally. But beyond this, there is also substantial funding. It's not for nothing that we used to be 12. In the Saeima, we saw that one party had a rapid change of opinion in this regard. Let us not call on a name to which - you know. The third option is... would be that we put in place a system of our engineers, our companies, which already have a system of introductions. I return to the times when this was my job. I remember there was a debate about this Norwegian trub, or "electronic casket", as I called it. I asked a couple of Latvian entrepreneurs who know... which is also known to you all, working on new technologies and solutions. And within an hour, people had some four ideas how this could be driven conceptually. I know that several companies have worked on this. Perhaps it would be better for them to work together - both those who can count and those who can program a camera that can read to recognize any object. (There were no such facilities three years ago, but now there are.) You can recognize any object, determine its belonging... and the other - count, put it into the system. All this is possible in Latvia. The good news in all this - no matter what we're going to work here (I don't think today, but later on), they think they've been so far in the development of their product that if they don't make it in Latvia, I think it will be sold outside Latvia. Like the Norwegians, we could dominate tomorrow. But that sad news... we have had a situation in woodworking, that we in Latvia have a company that produces multi-storey wooden houses, but sells them in Scandinavia. Latvia cannot be built because laws and regulations do not allow to build multi-storey wooden houses in Latvia. It would be foolish if we did the same thing with this system. But the good news is, we're very far away. We've been so far. As far as this extended system is concerned, it is absolutely right. Today's technology (as recognised by all manufacturers) allows the introduction of a system that can be collected from bottle to tyre and so on. If we've been so far away that we can do it in relation to drinks, then let's go! Let's work on the rest! Because, by the way, successful start-ups in Latvia are also, as they say, left to losers - they wanted to bring their start-up to an absolute improvement in a perfect way so that it would be absolutely perfect, but when they are close to it, they have long entered the market and their market has been taken by another company with a weaker product. I call on you to support the drink... deposit, but make it that these equipment are produced in Latvia and leave Latvia for economic benefit, and look further into the expanded deposit. But, as I said, not in today's law, but in it our will... and there is no money behind Latvian entrepreneurs. Then there is a good question: whether we will go for money or for our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U401	Thank you. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U402	Hello, fellow Members, again! Third reading, and this is the most important proposal at third reading. As already mentioned, 19 years are working on this bill, but yet... Third reading, one of the final proposals... And from reading to reading this concept changes... there is a fight for interests, and now, at third reading, the bill is experiencing certain changes... I am not in favour of putting forward proposals for conceptual changes at third reading either. There are times when you have to do that. Perhaps this is also the case. But on such an important issue, I think that those resolutions should have been for the second reading. And I had to be clear about what that deposit would look like. Now, after what this draft law provides, we will invest enormous work and energy, we will involve various institutions in order to combat six per cent of the amount of waste to be recycled. I think that if we are talking about the quality of the environment and about the European norms that we need to achieve, this draft law... This law, unfortunately, will not make any significant changes to all of us... the great challenges facing Latvia. But this bill still makes me think about it... and I very much hope that this will not happen, that Latvia will not become the country that buys some old equipment that no one needs... on what Mr. Schmidt said. ( Interface: “The State will not buy anything! ” ) I very much hope that our producers will not be forced to buy completely meaningless systems that no one else needs. You are trying to name this bill here now as a modern bill. I think it's not modern. Modern would be if we really talked about such... a broader approach to this case. And it's not that Latvia is not a modern country! These broad, innovative approaches already exist in Latvia, not any news. For example, ZAPO Ltd. - the largest waste manager in Vidzeme. The extended deposit system is already in place there. They did not need any laws. Also, Jurmala works very successfully and is expanding; a system of weighted waste deposit is being developed. I think it will be these companies that will contribute to Latvia's goals... achieving the objectives of recycling and delivering results. This certainly won't be that... And yet, we are making an important point in this bill. We are moving this recycling from the waste collectors who are dealing with it on a daily basis to the producers. This title is one of the most profitable for these waste management companies. ( Internouncing call.) And, of course, through all the regulators... it also falls within the common tariff. Undoubtedly, it will affect everyone - everyone! - Latvian citizen's waste tariff. How and how much it will affect - this will depend on how these rules will be further developed and all other issues related to it dealt with. But it will certainly have an impact. We move this part of our profits from waste managers, from this common boiler, to producers. And that aspect, unfortunately, is something that nobody stands up for... has not talked about it. Everyone pretends it won't affect it. But it will, in effect, affect it. I am in favour of modern waste management systems. But today, unfortunately, this bill and the way it has passed through the Saeima for many years... with so many different positions... Unfortunately, I have not personally responded to the fact that I will... the preferred option will be selected. And I think these packaging manufacturers are not yet really aware of what they have signed up to. What's more, if you're aware, then... probably this is some very narrow-interest lobby, and some old, pointless equipment will be bought with which... In the normal countries of the European Union, where these issues are working in a modern way, everyone has long moved to other countries... another approach, how all of this should be done. Look at - there are already such modern waste management approaches in Latvia that people already use in everyday life! Colleagues, I am not convinced that this is the best solution that could be achieved in this debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U403	Thank you. The name to the Member Atm Lejny.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U404	Thank you. Madam President, Colleagues! Over 70 proposals were submitted to the third reading. To the third reading! Someone was awake, but too late! What are we talking about here now, just from Mr. Valaiņš? And... Mr. Schmidt, you're going to speak. Do you really think that we live in the last century, that we do not know what innovation is? ... What are new machines, automatic machines? We have all seen them, we have seen them companies. We're all aware of that. And we want them, and they will. I'm sorry, we don't need to be taught! I've even used those cars physically, looked at them, evaluated them. ( Internouncing call.) The problem is elsewhere. The problem is to start this system so that we do not have to wait again for 15 years. And lose what we've lost... The Estonians are driving on and on the border of the island of our bottles, taking back to Estonia and so earning money. Now they can't do it anymore. We're working on it. But it's not that simple. There are legal issues. Well, vote for, and then you will see! We know what age we live in. We know that it is now the 21st century and that we are able to buy these machines, automatic machines that can read everything, including tetrapacks. I call for the vote to be taken in favour and once to put an end to the 20-year saga!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U405	Thank you. The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U406	It is interesting, Mr. Leiens, that you have seen it because it is not yet. (Laughter) And... The maximum you could see was a prototype. — Dep. (A. Leanny's intermediate call sign.) ... No, no, but it wasn't a prototype of a pack collector. It was a prototype of reading a camera that definitely won't be a machine. So you couldn't have seen it. But I am already “for” so I don’t need to convince. Just... and I also do not say that no one understands anything in Latvia, but in reality one thing that I couldn't say in those first five minutes, in the context of all this context... with 67 proposals at third reading... With 19 years... and differently... We should urgently decide, as we say, that we have a public register of lobbyists in the country, on the one hand. On the other hand, public officials, including Members, would be obliged to publish their calendars, namely, what they meet, all the meetings... and, when they meet with lobbyists who are not on a list detailing what they are dealing with, to submit a detailed report on the content of this meeting and the issues dealt with. This is not a bike that needs to be invented if we are talking about the register, there is no huge lobby law to be adopted, there is no task to give to KNAB, as it has been done before, which was, by the way, a way to sink such an idea. This “bicycle” on the register is available. It works in the European Union - the joint register of the European Commission, the European Parliament, which shows all the lobbyists, where they describe what they represent, what is the annual budget, what is the budget for activities. All of this is visible. And I think it would be quite difficult then, let us say, for those who make these proposals, to answer the question of where they hit them and where their deep knowledge of the deposit system suddenly arose. That is my call in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U407	Thank you, Mr. Schmidt. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U408	Yes, colleagues, the public has made it clear to us that it wants a deposit system, and it is our duty as legislator to create such a system. Create a framework for this system. Unfortunately, when we build this system, we mostly... I must admit, it's been... In developing this system, people have relied more on revolutionary beliefs and myths, not on facts and arguments. That is, as a result, this system is what we... It would seem that it might be, but in reality, when you read this bill, the regulation that has been created, then the real result can be very much different from what it is planned. Essentially, this system, this legislative framework, is that we can make... That under it... They can make even more afero than with “pure” when used efficiently. Unfortunately, colleagues! It's a reality. With the waste mafia, you've achieved that... you have made a bill that can be even higher-level scheme (Interface: “You don’t support it?” ) than what you were afraid of. I will explain where there are risks that have not been taken into account so that it is not simply a discussion at your level - with myths. So, first of all, you've created a system... has offered a system which is created without a tender. In essence, you propose simply to set a monopoly for seven years by law, and the criterion there is no efficiency. It's said who can make a brighter, thicker pie, it'll get it. And what do you think who will do it? You think that will be done by your food manufacturers, for which you tried to decipher... in their interests, so that they can solve their problems? I doubt that. In the end, an amazingly simple result can be obtained. Secondly. You naively think that the proportionality of these pies can be made with the help of the regulator. But in the way you put it in the bill, it is absolutely impossible. On the contrary! As you have done, the regulator will have the duty to defend this “ pie” if it is made disproportionately... to someone very pleasant as a real honeyflake (Intersense.) , he will have to work with it and simply protect it. That's what you've made a bill. Go on. What you've done is you've really done this deposit facility... with this deposit system, you have missed the simplest opportunity that our colleague Didzis Schmidt has already said. Instead of really making a modern solution that solves the challenges facing our country... That is, from what the European Commission is saying on waste sorting, you have just drawn one narrow piece, one directive that concerns food and drink producers. Yes, they will solve their problems in an excellent way with this system. But only they will solve them. And that's just a small piece - rather than we solve the other problems that have to be solved in the country. We have now created a expensive system, it will be a expensive system, it will be an ineffective system, thanks to this draft law, and its system will not ultimately solve the challenges that Latvia has to face in terms of waste sorting. And the result will be that we will still pay millions for it - a fine. And that won't happen like you expect. It is said that this system will suddenly expand... and that those who will be operators... if those operators will really be those who want to solve only their problems... that they will suddenly begin to solve other problems in this system. Nothing like that! They're not going to do anything like that! An example is that anecdotes... There is something in the anecdote where the bunny comes to complain to the dragon and says: “You know, I am abhorred! What do I do?” “ You know, ” he says, “you don’t know. You need just his kid, and then you'll be fine!” He's happy to go home because he's promised that he's going to be okay now, and suddenly he's starting to think, so how's he going to be at that goat's fur? He goes back to the dragon, to the legislator, and asks: “A how do I get to that goat’s fur?” The dragon says to him, “Tree, you don’t bother me with details here, I work with a strategy.” It is about what we have done with this bill - having come to know strategically that a bunny will suddenly turn into a leash, but, as it happens, this bill does not appear. And as a result, you can have all the consequences I tell you. That this bill can in principle make a bigger story than what is believed by “pure” Because the draft law would give rise here to a monopoly, which is not subject to any efficiency requirements. Just to be as broad as possible... And the regulation that is intended for it will not provide us with what we want. Thank you. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U409	I closed the debate. Please call me! Let us vote on Amendment 57! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U410	So, thank you, colleagues. We are continuing the examination of the proposals. 58. - the proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It's related to 59. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The supervisory authorities of the deposit system are defined here. In response to Mr Zarina's comments just now, it will be by nature that the State Environment Service monitors the activities of packaging manufacturers and traders within the deposit system and in the deposit system operator. In turn, the Public Service Regulatory Commission will control the fees paid by the deposit system participants to the operator. Consequently, the MoEPRD proposal was partly supported. And the proposal of the committee responsible was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U411	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U412	So here's the situation... So to the end was not told about a bunny and a leash, if. So the hazelnut is commissioned for the estate. In this case, the regulator... where does it start to be regulated? It is only after this system has been established and it has already put in place all the inefficiencies that it wanted. Then the regulator will have to get out of it all... how the system will be, how ineffective it will be, and to ensure that he recovers the costs that are economically justified. This is the wrong solution. In this case, the regulator will not be able to ensure that the system works effectively. He will only be able to ensure that this system works in an economically sound way - in terms of its effectiveness, in terms of the mechanism that it has created. On the other hand, the legislator has not intended to really create it, to have a competition and to win the best, the most effective. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U413	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 58. - the proposal of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Jurs Pūce! ( The Room Noise) Fifty-eight... Please vote mode! ( The Room Noise) Please get the result! For - not, against - 47, abstaining - 11. So rejected. ( Milestones.) Yeah, it's okay.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U414	We're not having fun! So 59. - a proposal from the committee responsible. What Mr Zariņš has just debated here is the role of the State Environment Service and the Public Service Regulatory Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U415	Members are in favour. ( The utterances: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! We are voting for 59. - the committee's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U416	Therefore, colleagues, the essential articles, the content, have been examined and the transition to the transitional provisions. 60. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable, included 67. - the Commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “What is it about?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U417	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U418	61. - a proposal from Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola. It is encouraged to deny system participants the right to apply for themselves and to set up a deposit system operator independently. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U419	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U420	62. - Mr Feldman's proposal. Incorporated 67. - the Commission's proposal. It is envisaged to speed up the start-up time of the deposit system. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U421	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U422	Today, I could say, there is a certain historical day. I myself did not believe that, as a conservative, I would be the one who would be actively involved in the process called the introduction of a system of beverage deposits. But that's because we have to follow trends, what society demands. Our members of the New Conservative Party, too, when we were driving before the elections... in a specific case, I'm going through Zemgale... said: “Chryshan, why do we have to take the bottle of drink to Lithuania, across the border? Why can't we just put them in the deposit apparatus right here, in Jelgava or in Elea, and get them paid, and at the same time (The Intangibles. (Laughter) ... “ And I didn’t... And I said, “Yes, it will have to be done by the Saeima.” I was very surprised that this debate on the deposit system has lasted almost 20 years. When we started working a year ago, it was clear that it was necessary to introduce this system. Thank you, Mr Wittenberg, who carried this process to his shoulders. He accepted it as the head of the commission after approval by the government. Also today... It should be noted that the MoEPRD officials were also very actively involved in the development of quality proposals. I personally only put forward, to my mind, two proposals on deadlines. This is also about the deadline: one year before the introduction of the system, from 1 February 2022... It is the election year. I think the public will appreciate it. This is one of the works that have been done, where everyone who will vote on this draft law at third reading will be able to say that they have done something meaningful in this Saeima. Me too. One thing I highlight so much is the election of the President of Latvia. We have a president to be proud of. And the other thing I think what could be proud of is the introduction of a beverage deposit system. It was, of course, also... I was watching - there was also resistance to this law (Intellect.) , efforts to delay. Overall, work was intensive within the Commission. Yes, there are unexpectedly many proposals for the third reading. That is because no one expected that the draft law would ever go to the third reading. No one expected it. And so... when it was no longer possible... Right, Mr. Leenis? ... then almost overturned that bill for us. But in the end (Interior call) ... But in the end, we did it. And with the active involvement of the Legal Bureau, the VARAM officials, all the members of the Commission and, yes, the NGOs, we managed to understand what the optimal version would be, which could be approved quickly by the Saeima. This is its version. I call on you to support... and, of course, this motion from Member Lewis, which is the next one and which also involves introducing the same, so a deposit system from 1 February 2022. I also call for support for the draft law when all proposals have been examined at third reading. Now, I think it's a historic day. And further work will already have to be done by the Cabinet of Ministers, which will also need endurance. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U423	Thank you. Please, name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U424	Colleagues! I also call for support for this proposal, because indeed it is for the public to be given the opportunity to assess before the elections that the legislator has done, what system he has put in place, so that a very clear decision can be made when going to the elections. It may indeed be useful for many to make the right choice this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U425	Thank you. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U426	Dear colleagues, I would like to make this debate clear. When it came to the law on party financing, the rhetoric expressed by the Minister of Justice made it clear that there were some forces that prevented members of the coalition from carrying out their tasks. ( Internouncing call.) And somewhere you got here in a coalition, there's some sponsors who always run you, they run. ( Internouncing call.) But if we talk about what Mr Feldman said, he said that there was a force to interfere with this law. That is why you could explain more widely, Mr Feldman, who were the forces they represent and to whom they were interfering. Tell me, please! Otherwise, these are simply empty speeches. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U427	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U428	I could answer my colleague Jūlija Stepanenko's question about what forces Mr Feldman was hindering with regard to these deadlines. They were obviously BIP sponsors who were interfering, because that's why the BIP also wants to increase for itself... party financing at the expense of medical and teacher staff. And (Interior call.) actually precisely for that reason, Mr. Feldman is going down to the mall and lies again to the public that someone has prevented something from being introduced. No one has been disturbed here; the entire parliament wants to introduce this deposit system as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U429	Thank you. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U430	Colleagues, I'm on time. In my opinion, that deadline could have been even faster so that this Saeima could also make it possible to correct its mistakes. But if we're talking about this task and the deadline for implementation, then... Givers of the task themselves... Mr Feldman, name to me the task of the Saeima that this government has fulfilled! I don't think so. Not for medical salaries, not for administrative territorial reform... And now this one, too... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U431	Thank you. The name is Mr. Janis Wittenberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U432	Colleagues, here you can see brightly how you've been here for 15 years... or 19, how many were there... You were dragged down, talking about this system. Come here and talk about some modern thing... For example, a former Defence Minister came and told about the use of armaments during World War II (Applause). And so we live. ( Internouncing call.) And then we reduced... Whereas there were also proposals from Members Pleys and Feldman, we were boned for a year by the Ministry responsible... A timetable was agreed - let us work more quickly to put this system in place than a year earlier. A great deal still needs to be done in these two years, and an operator must be chosen. As a commission, we pass on the shelf tree to the Cabinet of Ministers, who has to lay down rules. The operator should also be selected and technically implemented in real nature, as well as educated people. So that we accept these amendments to the law and let's go, colleagues! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U433	Thank you. The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U434	A little course in education about what you said, Mr Wittenberg. This draft law on the acquisition of this old armaments was prepared by Mr Pabrik, who is the Minister of Defence at the moment. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U435	Please, for the proposal, Mr Gobzem. ( Internouncing call.) I closed the debate. Do Members want to vote on proposal 62? I don't want to. Proposal... Members are in favour. 63!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U436	So we're voting? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U437	Members... You're... I just asked.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U438	I recall, colleagues, that we are talking about transitional provisions - on deadlines, regardless of what colleagues have talked about here in several ways. So we're talking about 62. - Mr Feldman's proposal. Supported by the Commission. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U439	Members... We are already talking about Amendment 63. About 63!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U440	Oh, about 63? Okay, I'll talk about 63, too. - The proposal from Member Arthur Thomas Pleis. It is identical to the previous proposal - to start the operation of the deposit system one year earlier. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U441	Members are in favour. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U442	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U443	Not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U444	64. - The proposal from Member Arthur Thomas Plesh. Related to rejected and revoked... on the extended deposit. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U445	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U446	65. - Mr Feldman's proposal. Incorporated 67. - the Commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U447	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U448	66. - the proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. All transitional provisions are proposed as a whole, shortening the time limits for the start-up of the deposit system. Partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U449	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U450	And finally, colleagues, 67. - the proposal from the committee responsible, which brings together all the transitional provisions, including, as appropriate, the proposals from Members Krišjānis Feldman and Arthur Thomas Pleš. The deadline for deposit system participants to apply for the establishment of a deposit system operator is foreseen to be 30 September 2020. If necessary, if not, the National Environment Service shall re-submit to the tender by 30 December 2020. In turn, the start date for the deposit system is 1 February 2022. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U451	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U452	All the proposals have been examined. Colleagues! Before calling for support for the draft law at third, final reading, putting an end to a 19-year debate on the introduction of a tare deposit system, I would like to thank, above all, the experts of the VARAM, the SPRK staff, the staff of the Legal Bureau, the Members, but especially the members of the Environment and Climate Sub-Commission of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, Arthur Tomas Plšs, for his work. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “A Krišjānis Feldman?” ) I think this Saeima has confirmed that there is a different Saeima. Thank you. Please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U453	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on "Amendments to the Packaging Act" in the third, final, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 79 (Applause) , against and refrains - not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Vitaly Orlovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U454	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance” (No. 362/Lp13). The amendments were prepared and submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, and their aim is to extend the number of persons for whom mandatory state social insurance contributions have to be made in accordance with Section 5(1) of the Law on State Social Insurance. In particular, the project provides that the particular norm also applies to the spouse of the liaison officer. The Social and Labour Affairs Commission examined the draft law and unanimously supported it. I ask the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U455	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U456	Deadline for submission of proposals - 6 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U457	Thank you. November 26th. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Orlov: “6.” ) on 6 November. Thank you. Draft law “Law on Administrative Penaltys in the Field of Administration, Public Order and Use of State Language”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jānis Iesalnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U458	Hello, colleagues! We are considering another draft law relating to the decoding of administrative irregularities from 1 January of the following year. In this case, it is about administrative irregularities in the areas of administration, public order and use of the state language. The draft law lays down the competent authorities and administrative penalties for infringements such as the provision of false information to the institution, non-compliance with the legal requirements of the official, unjustified summoning of special services, small hooliganism and similar. The fourth chapter of the draft law lays down penalties for violations in the field of use of the state language. For example, non-compliance with the norms of the state language in open information intended to inform the public, failure to accept documents formulated in the state language, obvious lack of respect for the state language, conclusion of an employment contract with an employee for whom the amount of knowledge of the state language is insufficient for the performance of his professional duties, failure to provide translation in the state language in meetings, events, marking of goods, instructions for use and elsewhere. Taking into account that a number of decoded norms were created in the Latvian Administrative Violations Code in the 1990s and some even during the Soviet occupation and in no way meet the requirements of modern legal technique, its new law does not transfer them mechanically, but carefully evaluates their application practices and often changes both the position of the article and the amount of the penalty. Similarly, both the division of one article with numerous parts and the consolidation of several articles of a similar nature into one article were carried out. The draft law proposed to you is the result of extensive discussions between many state institutions, work has taken several years and countless coordination meetings. Of course, the Ministry of Justice could go the easiest way and simply transpose existing inefficient code norms into new law, but in this case it chose to use the decoding process so that the new law would be modern not only after the adoption date, but also after the content. The draft law not only modernises the content of existing administrative infringements, but also introduces new principles. For example, a number of rules governing liability for violations of the use of the national language introduced the liability of legal persons by extending the possibility for natural persons to apply one warning. This means that from next year, for example, instead of punishing another shop vendor who does not know the state language in the necessary amount, it will be possible to punish an employer who systematically allows such a situation. Thus, the practice of applying the norm will become fairer, gardening the real perpetrators in a situation in which the citizens of Latvia are not guaranteed the right to receive services in the state language. By addressing the shortcomings of the Code, the new law also introduces a new set of infringements, i.e. to respond to complaints from citizens, to introduce responsibility for sending a prospectus, newsletter, catalogue and other material to persons in a foreign language without their request. Adopting this provision would eliminate the problem of the large number of undemanded information materials in two languages in public mailboxes. In the light of all the above, on behalf of the Legal Commission, I ask Members to support the draft law at first reading in order to protect the constitutional rights of Latvian citizens in the fields of administration, public order and use of the state language after 1 January, when the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations will expire.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U459	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U460	Hello, colleagues! I would very much like to hope that the majority of those present would like to participate in the establishment of an orderly regulatory system that is understandable and fair to people. Therefore, in the context of the draft law on administrative penalties for infringements of the law on administration, public order and use of the state language, I would like to express my views on the severity of the penalties and the principle of proportionality. The draft law establishes administrative offences and penalties for them, as well as for the application of institutional sanctions. In particular, there are a number of questions raised by Article 18 of the draft law — Disrespect for the national language and Article 19 — Non-compliance with the provisions on the provision of information. Why is that? Article 18 provides: ‘On showing clear disrespect for the national language, a fine shall be imposed in the case of seven to one hundred and forty fine units.’ I have concerns about the subjectiveity of the users, as well as the fact that this case-law should be interpreted too widely. In addition, it is not clear what is meant by ‘disrespectful deed’ and by which ‘disrespectful deed’ is different from ‘simple disrespect’. Article 19, in my view, is unenforceable at all, since it provides, inter alia, that ‘as regards the transmission of prospectuses, newsletters, catalogues and other material to natural or legal persons, in addition to the language of the State, also in a foreign language, without the request of those persons, a warning or a fine shall be imposed on natural persons from seven to twenty-eight units of fine and, in the case of legal persons, from twenty-eight to two hundred units of fine’. It follows from the concept of a democratic republic as laid down in the Constitution that a number of fundamental principles of a legal state, including the principle of proportionality, emerge. The essence of the principle of proportionality as a constitutional order is as follows: in order to achieve a legitimate objective, a State cannot arbitrarily choose any means. A State may choose only a measure that is applicable to the achievement of a specific objective. In addition, the instrument chosen must be reasonable in relation to the objective pursued. It is also important to find out how big the risk of failure is. In accordance with the principle of the rule of law, a fine should be proportionate. If a disproportionate fine is imposed, it must be abolished. A proportionate fine has several features. First. This shall not exceed what is objectively necessary to achieve the objective. Second. This is in line with the infringements committed. Third. It should serve as a preventive measure to prevent similar infringements from being allowed in the future. I believe that it is not possible to cover all cases for a uniform definition of a proportionate fine or for a uniform level of the fine. In each situation, a separate calculation should be made to determine the appropriate amount of the fine to ensure compliance with the legal framework. When assessing the proportionality of the norm, account should be taken of the amount of the imposed penalty, the ability of a person to pay the imposed fine, as well as the consequences that a person enters into without paying this penalty. In other words, the harshness of the penalties has never completely prevented the offence from being committed. Moreover, a cosmic fine, as proposed by the authors of the bill, opens the way to corruption, because a person is unable to pay and tries to agree with an official - and at times agrees. It should also be borne in mind that more fines are more difficult to recover. Therefore, I believe that it is not necessary to impose more severe fines in the law on administrative liability at the moment. Otherwise, the result will probably run counter to the prognosis of the authors of the bill. I call for the 'no' vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U461	Thank you. Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U462	Dear President, Colleagues! 30 years ago, the language law was introduced in Latvia, and the young journalist started his work in the newspaper Atmoda, Russian version. If I could have known that in the 21st century, independent Latvia would have been severely punished for disrespecting the state language... As if it turns out that the current draft law is due to a great threat to the language of the country. Otherwise, it is not clear why a separate chapter has been allocated to such offences and they are even included in the title of the draft law. Yesterday, at the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Public Solidarity, the issue of non-citizens was discussed, therefore, knowledge and use of Latvian language. According to the sociological survey, only 12 percent of non-citizens do not use Latvian. But overall, this population category is about 10 percent of Latvia's population. Even if the number of foreigners living in Latvia were taken into account, the proportion of people who do not use Latvian in the worst case would not exceed 10 percent. Perhaps Latvian state institutions are doing something about training these people. Yesterday, however, the representative of the Ministry of Culture informed the Saeima Commission that this restaurant has no powers and also opportunities to organise language courses for the permanent residents of Latvia. Also in October, representatives of Estonia took part in our commission. In a neighbouring country, this is the case: the Ministry of Culture has two special Estonian-language houses - Tallinn and Narva - as well as 24 language cafes where you can speak Estonian to people who do not have the right environment. Some 2,300 people receive free language assistance every year. In my opinion, it is also the responsibility of the Latvian state to first support people who are trying to learn Latvian rather than punish it for its improper use. That is why I will not support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U463	Thank you. Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U464	At the moment, Latvian legislation is in the process of decoding. In other words, administrative criminality is divided into sectoral laws, and administrative penalties are defined in sectoral laws. The Law on Administrative Responsibility, which has long been drawn up, enters into force on 1 January 2020. Different types of administrative penalties are applicable, which are not subject to any sector-specific legislation. And it is also not subject to the Law on Administrative Liability, which has long been adopted... At the moment, it is not expected that the State Language Law would be opened until 1 January. So if we do not move forward on this draft law, then many administrative penalties, which have both a preventive and a criminal moment, are not applied at all. It is therefore provided that this Law will enter into force at the same time as the Law on Administrative Liability, which enters into force on 1 January 2020. Please support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U465	I closed the debate. Do you want to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U466	Yeah. In answer to my colleague Agešin's question about Article 18 of the bill, about showing clear disrespect for the national language. This is not a new form of infringement. Such composition has been in Section 201.36 of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code since 2001. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U467	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Law on Administrative Penalty Offences in the Fields of Administration, Public Order and Use of State Language”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 55, it's against - 22, it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U468	7 November of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U469	The deadline for submitting proposals is 7 November this year. Thank you. Next bill - “Amendments to the Law on Public Service Regulators” (No. 402/Lp13), first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U470	Colleagues! This draft law is also related to the so-called decoding of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code. That is, to transfer legal provisions related to administrative offences from the Latvian Administrative Violations Code to this sector law. The Commission has examined and supported the draft law at first reading. We invite you to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U471	Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Public Service Regulators”” (No. 402/Lp13) first reading support! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 74, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U472	Deadline for submission of proposals - 14 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U473	The deadline for submitting proposals is 14 November this year. Thank you. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Service Regulators” (No. 382/Lp13), first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U474	Colleagues! In turn, this draft law, which is also about the law “On Public Service Regulators”, is related to improving the work of regulators with the regulatory framework, and includes such things. The first is that the draft law is intended to prevent a situation where the entire Board of Regulators suddenly changes and there is almost no one in the Board of Regulators with appropriate competence. The aim is therefore to ensure that this rotation of officials is gradual and does not happen at the same time, so that all the members of the board are not replaced within one year. The second thing. The regulatory framework for the right of the regulator to amend the licences issued, the conditions of amendment... amend the conditions of licences issued. The third thing. With regard to the duties and rights of the regulator in relation to the registration process of public service providers. The fourth case also relates to synchronising to harmonise the process of setting tariffs between themselves. What is laid down in this law and what is laid down in the relevant legislation governing these sectors. It is therefore necessary for these legal provisions to be harmonised with each other. And another important thing. This is about how the regulator deals with the dispute procedures. The Commission has examined the draft law for first reading. I call on you to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U475	Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Public Service Regulators”” (No. 382/Lp13) in first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U476	7 November of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U477	7 November this year: deadline for the submission of proposals. Colleagues! We're getting ready for a break. Please check-in mode! ( Internouncing call.) Name of the Secretary of the Saeima Andrejs Klementyev for the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U478	Good afternoon, honourable Members! Not registered: Aldis Adamovičs... No, Aldis Blumbergs... No, Boris Cilevič... I don't see, Jānis Dūklavs... I don't see, Maria Golubeva... No, I'm not, Inese Rectsen... No, Artus Neighbours... no, Rihards Kols, Maris Kučinskis, Ināra Mūrniece, Romanas Naudiņš, Dana Reizniece–Ozola, Jānis Vitenbergs... Yes, Jānis Vucāns and Evita Zālīte–Gross.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U479	Thank you. Interruption until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U480	Dear colleagues, Please, take the seats. Let's keep sitting. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption - Member Mārtiņš Staķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U481	Hello, fellow Members, again! The draft law “Amendment to the Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia” was reviewed and supported at the meeting of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption on 15 October. I would remind you: this draft law sets out the order in which the armed forces of our allies can cross the border of Latvia outside the border crossing points during joint training. Two proposals were received, both specifying the procedure by which the National Armed Forces inform the State Border Guard, stating that they should be informed at least two weeks in advance. 1. - The Commissioner's proposal, John Adamson. The proposal 2 has been partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U482	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U483	And 2. - The proposal by Mārtiņš Staķis, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U484	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U485	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U486	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 58, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U487	29 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U488	The deadline for submitting proposals is 29 October this year. Thank you. See the draft law “Amendments to the Law on International Assistance”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Foreign Affairs, Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U489	Colleagues! We see the draft law "Amendments to the Law on International Assistance". The current Law on International Assistance defines what is international assistance implemented by the Republic of Latvia and defines the principles and procedures how it is planned and implemented. The aim of these amendments, in turn, is to improve mainly two things within the framework of this law, which are related to how we protect the civilian experts we send to international missions and operations, as well as to improve the planning and implementation framework for development cooperation. In some words, I will tell you what these amendments to the law will bring so that you can make a more responsible decision and understand what matters the Foreign Affairs Commission is dealing with. Amendments to the law regarding the planning of development cooperation are related to the work carried out by Latvian state institutions - such as the Food and Veterinary Service, the State Audit Office and others - by transferring Latvia's experience in the nearest regions about the work carried out by Latvian non-governmental organizations in cooperation in the field of environment, women's rights, anti-corruption and business innovation outside Latvia. The changes in the law in this area will allow the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to respond more flexiblely to the situation and demand of its partners and to ensure more efficient use of money. Interesting technical changes, but also telling about the planning of our country in development cooperation, are about the state agency of development cooperation referred to in Articles 4, 7 and 8 of the Law. And if you haven't heard so far that we have such a national agency for development cooperation, then it's right because we don't have that. Ten years ago, when planning and forming the legal framework, it was planned that the agency would be established if development cooperation exceeded 2 million lats or 2.85 million euros. This too would be much less than our neighbours - Estonians and Lithuanians - used for these purposes. However, as this agency does not exist, these tasks are carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Ministry would also like to clarify them in law and to remove them from the legal framework at present. The second part of the change in the law on participation in international missions and operations is related to the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would like to protect not only people in various ways in the public service, but also those people that Latvia sends... but not public and municipal officials or employees. The draft law also provides for changes to the transitional provisions, so that all of this can happen and be implemented and that the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers will be drawn up before the end of this year. These are technical changes and no new law on international assistance is proposed. I hope we'll ever have one. But in the meantime, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U490	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on International Assistance". Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, against and refrains - not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U491	The time limit for submission of tenders shall be 31 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U492	The deadline for submitting proposals is 31 October this year. Thank you. Draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on the maintenance of the Latvian-Lithuanian state border and the activities of authorised border representatives”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U493	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! We work with Law No. 392/Lp13 - “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on the maintenance of the Latvian-Lithuanian state border and the activities of authorised border representatives”. It should be recalled here that on 10 April 2002 the State Border Map of the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Lithuania, together with the description of the State Border annexed to it, was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers order, thus completing the redemarking of the State Border of Latvia-Lithuania. Currently, the Agreement between the Governments of the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Lithuania on the activities of authorised border representatives, defining the forms, tasks and procedures of their cooperation, is in force. However, this existing agreement does not correspond to today's reality, for example, dispels issues that affect the operation of Latvian-Lithuanian border crossing points, which are no longer currently functioning. In 2009, the Lithuanian side made a proposal to start work on the development of a new draft agreement on the maintenance of the Latvian-Lithuanian state border and the respective activities of the authorised representatives of the border... cooperation, therefore, expert consultations were also launched between the two parties on the development of a new draft intergovernmental agreement. With the entry into force of the new agreement, the previous agreement will cease to have effect. The new draft agreement sets out the procedure for maintaining the state border, border marks and border zone, carrying out the inventory of the state border, carrying out joint surveys of the state border, border marks and border band, establishing the joint committee, defining its functions and working rules, carrying out activities and cooperation of authorised border representatives, examining and resolving border incidents. The draft agreement provides that the exercise of economic activities and other activities within the border area shall be governed by the national legislation of the parties. Joint national border surveys shall be planned at least once every five years and shall be organised by authorised border representatives from both countries. The Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia establishes that the authorised representatives of the Republic of Latvia and their alternates shall be appointed from among the border guards for the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers at certain stages of the state border, if their appointment is provided for in the relevant international agreement. In accordance with the draft contract, the tasks of the authorised border agents also include the regulation of border crossings, the task of organising unilateral or joint investigations of border guards and, within the scope of its competence, examining and resolving issues relating to border crossings which do not need to be dealt with through diplomatic channels. Furthermore, it was important for both parties to the agreement to provide that the investigation of border guards is an examination of the circumstances; this in turn means that that investigation is not related to criminal proceedings or administrative infringement proceedings. On behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I ask colleagues to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U494	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on the maintenance of the Latvian-Lithuanian state border and the activities of authorised border representatives! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Specify, please, the deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U495	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 31 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U496	Consequently, 31 October is the deadline for the submission of proposals. Thank you. Draft law on the accession of the Ministry of Defence of the Slovak Republic to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the National Defence Department of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Republic of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre of Excellence of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation for Strategic Communications and the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the National Defence of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Defence of the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, as well as the staff of the Supreme Electoral Assembly on the Strategic Relations of the Centre of Excellence of the Republic of North Atlantic, Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U497	Dear Member of the President, Dear colleagues, We work with Law No. 23/Lp13. One of Latvia's greatest achievements in security policy is the establishment of a NATO Centre of Excellence in Strategic Communication in Riga. Since this centre started working in 2014, 12 countries have joined, including two non-NATO member states – Finland and Sweden. With this draft law, we approve the accession of the Ministry of Defence of the Slovak Republic to the Memorandum with all existing members of the StratCom Centre. Slovakia has already sent one expert to Riga and has carried out the necessary financial transfer to ensure the operation of the Centre. The Foreign Affairs Commission has examined this draft law and, of course, has unanimously supported it. On behalf of the Commission, I call on you to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U498	Please call me! We will vote on Draft Law No. 23/Lp13 support at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U499	31 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U500	The deadline for submitting proposals is 31 October this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U501	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U502	Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Fertilisers’, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U503	We see the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Fertilisers”. Six proposals were received for the second reading. Everyone from the Law Office. And they're all technical corrections. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U504	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U505	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U506	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U507	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U508	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U509	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U510	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U511	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U512	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U513	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U514	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U515	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U516	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on the Law on the Movement of Fertilisers! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U517	31 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U518	The deadline for submitting proposals is 31 October this year. Thank you. Draft law on the use of genetic resources, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Mr Daniel Pavluts.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U519	Dear Member of the Speaker of the Saeima. Colleagues! See the draft law on the use of genetic resources at second reading. This draft law was examined at the meeting of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission on 15 October. We reviewed five proposals. All these are the proposals of the Legal Bureau. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U520	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U521	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U522	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U523	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U524	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U525	4. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau to exclude the fourth paragraph of Article 7 of the draft law. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U526	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U527	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U528	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U529	I call for support for this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U530	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law on the use of genetic resources! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U531	The deadline for the third reading of the proposals, as many of the draft laws that have already been examined today, is 31 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U532	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 31 October. Thank you. Draft law “Amendments to law on compulsory social insurance for accidents at work and occupational diseases”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Jānis Krišāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U533	Dear Vice-President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compulsory Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases”. This draft law contains six proposals. The proposal is a editorial proposal from Lipshan, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. This is about the calculation of the average salary of insurance contributions. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U534	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U535	2. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare on insurance cases. It is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U536	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U537	3. - the proposal by Mr Lipshan, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare, which provides for the replacement of the figures and the words "Article 12, paragraph 1.1" with the words "Article 12, second paragraph". It is partly supported and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U538	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U539	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is a editorial amendment. It is also partly supported and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U540	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U541	5. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It is also editorial about the entry into force of the second paragraph of Article 12 and the third paragraph of Article 20 as from 1 January 2021. It is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U542	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U543	And the last one is 6. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare, which provides for the entry into force of Section 12(1) of the Law from 1 January 2022. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U544	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U545	On behalf of the Commission, please support this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U546	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compulsory Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U547	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 1 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U548	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 1 November. Thank you. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Declaration of Residence”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Eriks Pucens. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U549	Hello, colleagues! The National Administration and Municipal Commission worked with the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Declaration of Residence”. Three proposals have been tabled: two from the Legal Office and one from the committee responsible. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U550	Members are in favour. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) However, do Members want a vote? Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The Legal Bureau's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 75, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So proposal 1 has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U551	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U552	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U553	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U554	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U555	I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U556	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Declaration of Residence” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U557	The deadline for submitting proposals is 31 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U558	The deadline for submitting proposals is therefore 31 October this year. Thank you. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Documents for Persons”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Regina Ločmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U559	Hello, fellow Members, again! The Commission of State Administration and Local Government shall submit a draft law “Amendments to the Law on Documents of Persons” for consideration by the Saeima at second reading. Six proposals were submitted in total. 1. - Member Martin Bondard's proposal. It provides for the introduction of a new type of document, namely a Latvian citizen's travel passport. The Commission is not supported by indicating that it will require disproportionately high expenditure from the national budget. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U560	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Martin Bondard's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 38, against - 29, refraining - 3. The proposal is supported. Go on. ( The Room Noise) Go on. Proposal No 2
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U561	2. - the proposal by Mr Bondard, Member related to proposal 1. The Commission is not supported on the same basis. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U562	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Martin Bondard's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 39, for - 27, for - 4. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U563	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technically, the words ‘administrative liability’ shall be replaced by the words ‘administrative irregularities’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U564	Members are in favour. 4. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U565	4. - the proposal by Member Mārtiņš Bondaras, which concerns the entry into force of amendments to the law. The Commission was not supported by the fact that the previous two proposals by Martin Bondar were not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U566	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U567	Colleagues! We are already voting on a number of proposals in the spirit of conviction, but I would call on Martin Bondar to come, however... pay a bit of respect to the parliamentary committee's vote, because Members have nevertheless voted against in the committee and tell all colleagues to understand what they are talking about.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U568	Thank you. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U569	Dear colleagues, honourable colleagues! I have tabled this proposal on several occasions. It's been said, of course... Different thoughts... that this is due to the need of a member of my family... I can confirm that no member of my family... no member of my family needs two passports. In turn, there are entrepreneurs in Latvia who produce, for example, in China and sell in Russia, and both of these countries require visas, and there are situations where they cannot travel to these countries. Go on. There are situations where our citizens are located in third countries where only passports can be used and want to travel from these third countries to other third countries. This means that they leave the only legal travel document in those third countries at the embassy of another country, right? Go on. There are situations where our compatriots are travelling to countries that are at risk from one another, and this poses unnecessary safety risks. And we are addressing these unnecessary safety risks. If we are talking about costs from the country - all these costs, the costs of this service, will be covered by those who will take the second. It will not be that national taxpayers will be forced to pay for these passports. However, most of the people travelling and travelling to third countries want to be able to do so. Thank you, colleagues, for your support in the first two votes. Request to support also the date of entry into force. Thank you in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U570	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. ( Internouncing call.) We are continuing the debate, yes. Please! Please, Member Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U571	I conceptually support the idea that individuals may have several personal identification documents. But there is a legal problem ( listen carefully!) : the existing passport is by nature an identity document and, at the same time, a travel document. Now we are making a new document, which we will call a travel document. And that is a legal problem. How should this actually be, and who would solve this problem? Quite an elemental solution, namely that we do not have a special travel passport, because the usual passport is also a travel passport, but that we adopt a regulation that allows a person to have several copies of the passport, because all the passports are travel passports... Irrespective of the fact that we will now approve an amendment to the law providing for a new travel passport. The existing passport is a travel passport. We're just introducing a new... a new document, the name of which is meaningless in nature. It would therefore be qualitatively appropriate to do so - to resolve this problem by providing that a person may have taken away several copies of a specific personal identification document. And in the administration of citizenship and migration matters, this is the way it is identified accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U572	Thank you. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U573	Unfortunately, Mr Bondara has not participated in the meeting of the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government, which was attended by experts... In particular, employees of the Ministry of the Interior who pointed out that the development of new type of identity documents, as well as administrative service, as well as the absence of statistics on how many of these new types of documents will be needed by Latvian citizens... they cannot predict public expenditure for the implementation of this type of document, as you are asking for in the proposal that you will be voting on immediately after a year. But given that Martin Bondar promised us that the owners of these new documents will cover absolutely all the costs associated with the issue of this new type of document themselves, then perhaps it will also be done that they will cover absolutely all the costs related to design and to the production of these documents in order to hire additional staff to deliver these documents and other administrative costs. Because in this very sitting of the Commission, where you were not, perhaps for objective reasons, we discussed Germany's experience, where, as Mr Gobzem has just said, practiced in such a way that a person can get a second passport, absolutely the same document, for an extra fee... where he can actually bear the costs of service in order to fulfil the objective underlying your proposals. But if we go out on this model, then all the proposals you have just voted on, 1 and 2, become absolutely pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U574	Thank you. Name to Member Uldis Budric.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U575	I would like to remind you, firstly, that this is a draft codification law and for the second reading is presented in the following... It is interesting that, already on the first time these proposals were put forward, we were told by the Office for Citizenship and Migration Affairs (CMP) that the introduction of such passports... they would be around 2 million in relation (interim). procurement. At first, you have to buy passports because you can't do it alone... Secondly, there are maintenance costs and so on. This will be about 2 million. Colleagues, what am I trying to encourage? Do you really want, now that there is a budgeting process and approval, when there is such a crowding-up, you want to direct 2 million to a second document... Who really has no reason? As well as Regina Ločmele-Lunova mentioned, we considered the possibility of a second passport in the Commission. It was also pointed out by consular representatives that this was the case in European practice. If there's any doubt about that... on voting opportunities... that will be able to go by voting twice... there is a sign that one is a voting passport, the other is only a travel passport. But in any case, this is not the right time for such... Such initiatives should go through the Saeima. I don't know, I'd be in the first two... Indeed, he has followed how the commission did so, because there was indeed an argument there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U576	Thank you. The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U577	Just add something. Let us say, for example, where we have a very similar system to that in Germany. Like us, Germany also has two types of identity documents - a passport and an identity card - both of which are travel documents at the same time. This document is probably simply more, because... what is not in the current version... What is this travel passport document? Is it to be used only when crossing the border, or is it to be used somewhere else? What will be the difference between the so-called ordinary passport and... Is that so? That's why I'm also saying that it would be more logical to solve that problem for those people... their number of people is probably not particularly high... to deal with the fact that persons in Latvia have the right to two passports, two identical passports, because all other issues, which are subordinate, are not resolved in the specific proposals. There you go.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U578	Thank you. Do you want to say something else on behalf of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U579	I would simply like to remind you that, at the moment, we will vote in favour of the proposal by Member Martin Bondard, which concerns the deadlines for the introduction of a specific provision, so the entry into force.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U580	Please call me! Let us vote on Amendment 4! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 40, for - 9, for - 3. The proposal is supported. ( Milestones.) Please, the next proposal. The vote was adopted. ( The ring of noise.) Please, six. ... Proposal No 5 ( Insight: “So accepted or not accepted? ” ) Accepted. Please, proposal 5. Proposal No 5
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U581	5. - a proposal by the Legal Bureau that amendments to the second and third paragraphs of Section 14 of this Law, as well as Articles 17 and 18 of this Law, shall enter into force at the same time as the Law on Administrative Liability. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U582	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U583	6. - the Commission's proposal to exclude the legal entry into force of the law. Technical. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U584	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U585	I ask the Saeima to vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Documents of Persons”.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U586	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Documents for Persons”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no problem with - 66, against - 5, abstaining. The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U587	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 31 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U588	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 31 October this year. Thank you. Draft law “Amendments to law on the legal movement of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Edmunds Teirumnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U589	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs is working on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Legal Movement of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and Medicinal Products”. Two proposals have been received. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U590	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U591	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U592	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U593	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U594	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Legal Movement of Narcotics and Psychotropic Substances and Medicinal Products” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U595	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 1 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U596	1 November of this year: deadline for the submission of proposals. Thank you. See the draft decision “On audit of the financial statements for 2019 and 2020 under the State Audit Office of the Republic of Latvia”. On behalf of the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit - Member Kaspars Girgens. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U597	Hello, colleagues! Paragraph One of Section 45 of the Law on State Control establishes the obligation of the Saeima to select, by competitive procedure, sworn auditors or statutory auditors for the purpose of carrying out audit of the annual financial statements of the State Audit Office. In order to fulfil this obligation and ensure the selection process under conditions of fair competition, the Public Expenditure and Audit Committee of the Saeima set up a working group which together with the representative of the Public Procurement Division of the Saeima developed the necessary documentation and conducted a document market research for the purchase of the audit service of the State Audit Office in 2019 and 2020. The market operator to be awarded the contract was selected as a limited company with limited liability ‘Audistrums’. I invite the Saeima to approve the State Audit Office of the Republic of Latvia’s 2019 and 2020 Auditor’s Commercial Company and Limited Liability “Audistrums” as the Auditor’s Auditor’s Auditor’s Auditor’s Auditor’s Auditor’s Auditor’s Auditor’s Auditor’s Auditor’s Auditor’s Auditor’s Auditor’s Auditor’s Report.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U598	Please call me! We will vote for the approval of the draft decision on the audit of the financial statements for 2019 and 2020 under the State Audit Office of the Republic of Latvia! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. Decision adopted. Thank you. Draft decision on the approval of the 2018 Annual Report of the Republic of Latvia on the implementation of the state budget and on the municipal budgets. On behalf of the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit - Member Kaspars Girgens. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U599	At the meeting of the Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit on 22 October this year, the issue “On the approval of the State Budget Implementation Report 2018 of the Republic of Latvia and the Local Government Budgets” was examined by evaluating the results of the audit carried out by the State Audit Office and listening to the representatives of competent institutions. I would like to give a brief summary of the findings. In 2018, Latvia's economy continued to grow. As gross domestic product grew, sound economic growth was mainly driven by the increased flow of investment from European Union funds. The general government budget had a deficit of 1 per cent of gross domestic product, which is in line with the statutory requirements. The general government debt of Latvia at the end of 2018 was EUR 10.6 billion. In 2018, the state budget of the Republic of Latvia was implemented in accordance with the law, as well as the priorities established by the law - increasing the state defence capacity, reducing income inequality of the population and others. The revenue of the consolidated general budget last year was 13,1 per cent higher than in 2017. In turn, expenditure increased by 12.7% in 2018, as it was affected by increased investment in the implementation of projects co-financed by the European funds, the increase in the salaries of health workers and educators, and other factors. The State Audit Office found new problems in the financial audit of the 2018 annual financial year – uncertainties with biological and underground assets, shortcomings in the valuation of derivatives, incorrectly discounted liabilities. Unfortunately, there are still long-standing unresolved problems, such as the accounting of the unsubordinated long-term investment, the unintroduced principle of accumulation, and the misclassification of liabilities. If new shortcomings or no progress will be found in solving the persistent problems next year, the State Audit Office may be forced to give a negative opinion or refuse to give an opinion on the annual economic report. The most important discrepancies are the Southern Bridge. The EUR 241 million loan from Riga to Deutsche Bank AG for the construction of the Southern bridge has not been correctly shown as a debt supplier and contractor. And state guarantees. State guarantees for loans to health care institutions and for the construction of sports facilities are shown at €33.7 million less than in fact. One of the most important expenditure items that are distributed in the budget planning process is development expenditure, whose evaluation and selection process, according to the State Audit Office, is still not transparent. Such management outside the statutory framework undermines the quality of the state budget, as 40 percent of the measures put in place to support in 2018 came from the working group of the coalition partners of governments, not from the ministries. The total amount of tax debt has decreased by 14 percent, because the part has been removed, however, new tax debts of around 850 million euros each year, but the Ministry of Finance has still failed to carry out research into the reasons why individuals and businesses are late or not paying taxes at all. Personal income tax relief does not work as intended. This relief does not reach precisely the groups of people for whom it is most important - pensioners and people with disabilities. In 2018, at least 70 thousand persons received no relief. No funding was granted for the E-customs project for the period 2019-2021. The financing needed for joint projects up to 2025 has also not yet been decided. As a result, there will be an increasing risk that the E-customs project (second round) will not be carried out within the planned time and scope; this may have both financial consequences for the state (unacquired tax revenues and EU penalties for unenforced project) and threats of reputation. The remuneration of municipal members is still not in compliance with the law on remuneration. By the end of the day, it is unclear how many institutions and companies each municipality has. There is a high risk that neither the public nor the Cabinet of Ministers will be able to obtain complete and true information about the funds used for the centenary celebrations. I would like to conclude by saying that in the financial audit of the Republic of Latvia's 2018 annual report on the implementation of the state budget and on municipal budgets, the State Audit Office made 45 recommendations, of which 43 were addressed to the Ministry of Finance, one proposal - to the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, one proposal - to the Cabinet of Ministers. The Public Expenditure and Audit Committee of the Saeima adopted a decision at its meeting on 22 October... To inform the Commission by submitting an interim report on the progress of implementation of recommendations, thus ensuring continuous parliamentary control (The Head of the Seimas knocks down with a hammer.) monitoring the deficiencies identified by the audit. In accordance with Article 66 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia, please approve the annual report of the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the state budget and on the municipal budgets submitted by the Republic of Latvia for 2018.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U600	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U601	Yes, honourable colleagues! Now you can see how much you are interested in implementing the 2018 budget. You are absolutely not interested in this. However, I would like to point out that the third paragraph of Article 66 of the Satversme really lays down that there is such an obligation - after the budget year has run, the Cabinet of Ministers is obliged to submit to the Saeima for approval the settlement of the budget. Please, honourable colleagues, do you even understand at the moment what you are going to vote on? Open the accompanying document, please and see what it says! It only contains a decision on the clearance of these accounts, but nothing has been added... on which you will now vote. Mr. Ģürgen read the data from the triple. It is possible that these data have been taken from the presentation... The presentations prepared by the State Audit Office, which were not added here, but were on the agenda of the Commission on 22 October. But you didn't even hear it, but you took some of your side work there. You will now vote completely on the blind for one paper, which reads: “We support... confirm the settlement.’; But the settlement, honourable colleagues, is not a presentation. Settlement is a statement of revenue and expenditure. And these settlements were to be prepared not in the form of a presentation to the State Audit Office, but to be submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers. I can't see any document where it would be written: Mr. Karin submits these payments. There's no such document. I call on you not to support this blind decision because you will now vote in favour of nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U602	I closed the debate. Do you want to add something on behalf of the Commission? No, no. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On discharge of the State Budget for 2018 of the Republic of Latvia and on municipal budgets”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the decision was taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, The agenda has been examined, but there is still information on how to respond to Members' questions on 24 October 2019. The question by Member Zariņa, Agešina, Rubika, Krišanas and Pimenov to the Minister of Justice Janis Bordans “On the rule of law of government decisions and understanding of the principle of the rule of law of the Minister of Justice of the Republic of Latvia”. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but they do not want to ask further oral questions. The question of Members Klementyeva, Agešina, Rubika, Krišana and Zariņa regarding the Minister of Welfare Ramonas Petraviča “On failure of the Ministry of Welfare without applying personal income tax relief in full, including disability relief, without complying with the requirements of the law”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that it is not possible to come to an oral response due to pre-planned work activities. Consequently, the response is postponed to the following week. The question of Member Zariņa, Krišana, Rubika, Ribakova and Orlova is addressed to the Minister of Justice Janis Bordans “On the right of the executive not to execute the decision of the Saeima”. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but they do not want to ask further oral questions. The question of Members Zarina, Krišana, Rubika, Ribakova and Orlova is addressed to the Minister of Justice Janis Bordans “On the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers, without fulfilling the task of the Saeima”. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but they do not want to ask further oral questions. The question of Member Zariņa, Krišana, Rubika, Ribakova and Orlova to the Minister of Justice Janis Bordans “On the actions of the Minister of Justice, ignoring the task assigned by the Saeima to the government”. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but they do not want to ask further oral questions. The question of Member Zariņa, Krišana, Rubika, Ribakova and Orlova is addressed to the Minister of Justice Janis Bordans “On the grounds of the voluntary actions of the government”. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but they do not want to ask further oral questions. The question of Members Zarina, Krišana, Rubika, Ribakova and Orlova to the Minister of Justice Janis Bordans “On the principle of the rule of law and the principle of legality”. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but they do not want to ask further oral questions. The question of Members Klementyeva, Agešina, Orlova, Krišana and Lochmele-Lunov by Prime Minister Artur Krišjānis Kariņš “On Statement by the Minister for Welfare on a possible large increase in pension tax from 20% to 50%“. The question was referred to Minister for Welfare Ramona Petraviča. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that it is not possible to come to an oral response due to pre-planned work activities. Consequently, the response is postponed to the following week. The question of Members Zarina, Klementyeva, Cileviča, Ribakova and Orlova to the Minister for Economics Ralf Nemir “On the involvement of officials of the Ministry of Economics in the cover of possible criminal offences in relation to the results of OIC power plant inspections”. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but they do not want to ask further oral questions. The question of Members Liepiņa, Stepanenko, Sprūde, Smita and Gobzem, Minister of Finance Janis Reirs, about limitation of cash costs for employees of public administrations. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but they do not want to ask further oral questions. The question of the Members Liepiņa, Smita, Stepanenko, Sprūde and Gobzem within the framework of compulsory procurement of the biogas station of SIA “Lielmežotne”. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. The question of Members Liepiņa, Smita, Sprūde, Stepanenko and Gobzem is addressed to the Minister of Finance Janis Reirs “On bonusing officials of the State Revenue Service’s Tax and Customs Police Administration for criminal offences discovered and prevented as a result of direct action”. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but they do not want to ask further oral questions. The question of Members Stepanenko, Gobzema, Smita, Sprūde and Liepaja to the Minister of Justice Janis Bordans About Draft Law No. 447/Lp13 ‘Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties)’ harmonisation process and the information contained in the annotation’. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but they do not want to ask further oral questions. Dear colleagues, A new question has been received today - the question to Prime Minister Kariņš, about the potential damage to the reputation and authority of the prosecutor's office and the Prosecutor General, by the Minister of Justice Janis Bordans, who expressed his unfounded accusations. Give it to the Prime Minister for a reply. Consequently, all questions have been heard and examined. Please check-in mode! Name of the Secretary of the Saeima Andrejs Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U603	Today's last registration. Not registered: Aldis Adamovičs... No, Aldis Blumbergs... No, Boris Cilevič... No, John Duklav... No, Mary Golubeva... No, I'm not, Inese Rectsen... No, Artus Neighbours... No, Richard Cole... No, Maris Kučinskis... No, Inara Mūrniece... No, Roman Money... No, Dan Reizer-Ozol... No, Ivan Ribakov... I see, thank you, John is also in the hall, Jānis Vucāns and Evita Zālīte–Gross. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-24-PT13-2014-U604	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
