ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U1	Honourable Members! We will begin the third extraordinary meeting on 18 December 2019. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Ports Act’. The draft law shall be open to all Members. Second reading: The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U2	Hello! Or I must say, good evening, the third extraordinary sitting today! So I have good news. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the two draft laws relating to the port of Ventspils in this regard. So when it comes to the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Ports Act’... 14 proposals have been examined in general and the table also includes 14 proposals. Let's start examining the proposals. Proposal 1 is a proposal from the commission responsible, which has been incorporated so as to... it is the MK's proposal, incorporated into Article 2 approved by the Commission, which we will see later. So... I am sorry, so in Article 7, for the sake of clarity, the management of the Ventspils port, so that it is not confused with the management of the other ports, is distributed separately - in Article 1.2... I'm sorry. That is why I am now saying that the Commission has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U3	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U4	2. is a proposal from the committee responsible. In view of the above, it is necessary to clarify the first paragraph of the existing Article and the second paragraph of the Article. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U5	Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U6	Good evening, colleagues! However, I would like an explanation from the Commission. Do I understand correctly that the current revised version means that the Riga Port Authority and the Ventspils Port Authority are derived by public law... is derived (i.e.!) a legal person governed by public law? In other words, the two administrations are the same legal entity? Because in Latvian it is now written here. Please explain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U7	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what can be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U8	The Commission supports proposal 2. (Laughter) Depp. L. Liepiņa: “You were asked!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U9	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal submitted by the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 53, against - 1, abstaining. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U10	3. - the proposal from the committee responsible relating to proposal 2. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U11	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U12	Yeah, okay. 4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. This is a very important proposal because it states that the shares of a capital company will not be forfeited or pledged. This removes concerns about the possible privatisations that took place prior to 2006, or the possible sale of shares. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U13	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “You left the commission, Ivar! What are you debating now?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U14	I was the only one who put forward proposals to the Commission within the deadline (Interface). I'll let you mark it. And I... I have (Independence.) ... With privatisation everything isn't so... as naive as we try to present it to us. There are different ways to privatise. What we're talking about... talk, - privatise... Just directly took society and privatised it - this is the most primitive way with which nobody else is working. If you want to privatise something, it's already in more subtle schemes... How do we know... It begins to reorganize something, to divide the good and the bad, and then gradually so that it attracts a private investor, that is to say, it creates... the reorganisation results in another legal entity that is not subject to all these restrictions and is then privatised. The question is, are we, with the wording that we are now proposing, eliminating it or inevitablely? I can't see it in any way. inevitably, because it only applies specifically to this... The word “reorganisation” has disappeared from this...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U15	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U16	Dear colleagues, I think that this wording does not mean absolutely nothing, because it does not mean anything. Because what this specific term will lead to - you specific, colleagues - is that the rule of law itself... the concept as such is laughed at by what you've been doing lately. By the fact that the law is amended as you want... with all those extraordinary meetings and so on. There is absolutely no guarantee that... As one of you will stand up, from which leg... Which will come to your mind. The next extraordinary sitting will be convened; if necessary, two extraordinary sittings, three, four, five. If something doesn't go to one commission, it's going to be sent to another commission. The Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, the Commission on Foreign Affairs... There's something else... You will need to sell it to someone. I'm sure that's the same... as it happens today, as it happens tomorrow... You will convene those extraordinary sittings that you need, and you will do so. So, in my opinion, it all doesn't matter. You, colleagues, have actually destroyed people's trust in the law as such... with which I congratulate you! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U17	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U18	So Proposal 4, what... (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U19	Give Mr Gobzem the opportunity to debate. (Laughter) Depp. S. Riekstins: “But the idea was good!” ; dep. M. Bondar: “A good attempt, Krišjāni!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U20	You see, of course, the society, what a hurry for the coalition is if. Two things I wanted to say. The first point is that it is absolutely clear that the opposition should submit a proposal to abolish, by simply voting, the roll of the parliamentary order. Well, for what's it, do it the same way you want! What are the procedures for? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “It’s an uncompromising rule of law!” ) “Uncompromising in the Rule of Law” The roll of order and procedures of the Saeima are not necessary, they are adapted to the situation as coalitions are more advantageous at a given moment. It's never been - at different times. That's the first thing. The second thing we are seeing is their take-over and management. What, then, is now appointed as proper hosts in Ventspils? Now I read that Ģirts Valdis Kristovskis has now been appointed to the port in Ventspils. ( The utterances are: “Ooo! ” ) It will now be the right thing. I would like to remind you that Ģirts Valdis Kristovskis entered politics during the “Latvian Way”. ‘ Latvia's Road" is definitely... by no means... was not related to corruption and all privatisation schemes, was not in any case related if! Ģirts Valdis Kristovskis is now in the New Unity. He has exchanged about 100 parties in the middle of the day, and he has come to a UNIFORM. And what I want from this platform to say to you (I can promise you, I'm ready) - if Ģirts Valdis Kristovskis is not in any way connected with Meroni, who has no interest in the port of Ventspils, if he's not really connected with Meroni, then I'm ready to climb this platform and say that I'm... that I have the Kremlin's hands and Shleser's eggs if... (Laughter) That's... That's what I'm ready to do if Ģirts Valdis Kristovskis is not related to Meroni. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U21	Name to Member Daniel Pavilut.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U22	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, I would like to say two things about this specific proposal. Well, first of all, I can assure (and there were also a number of other Members of the Commission) a Member of the Commission, Zarina, who was not on his own, that he was specifically asked the Legal Bureau present about the question you asked and about the proposal you made, and understanding the fundamental concern that was expressed in your proposal, which is now a proposal 11... This proposal, in the proposal from the committee responsible, is, in our opinion, resolved. So your wish was taken care of. ( Internouncing call.) It is about the fact that these parts cannot be disposed of, pledged, so this concern about the so-called privatisation is being addressed here... non-privacy so. The second thing I wanted to say is, of course, that I have quite a long memory and are quite embarrassing, how different opinions and settings change from time to time. I remember wonderfully those times when, for example, Mr Dombrovskis commissioned a study from the World Bank as the head of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy on Port Management. I remember how we worked together on port reform plans and what resistance we had to endure from our STECF colleagues at that time. And the same comments about privatisation were heard that someone was coming to ports. So that I call for these times to be remembered when we really talked about port management reforms. This draft law is a step in that direction, including this proposal. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U23	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U24	I am reading the proposal. It states that ‘equity shares (shares) shall not be transferable or pledged’. Equity shares, but properties... The assets are separable, pledged, and can also be provided. All port assets are giftable, and can be done with complete calmness. The capital shares remain, but all that is in, everything can be given. That is first. Secondly. Legally. But, dear friends, what about company transition? Perhaps you should read the Commercial Law and see that there is also an option such as company transition; there is no need to dispose of or pledge any capital. Or, for example, a reorganisation that can be done. Perhaps in favour of Meroni, as it may be! - Member of Unity Ģirts Valdis Kristovskis to do. We do not know that today. This regulation does not cover all cases. This only covers the case of companies not being able to dispose of their capital shares. But the company's assets can be disposed of - all until the last deposit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U25	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U26	Dear colleagues, If I start remembering all this, tell me everything I know about all the parties, where I've worked or how... Uhh! Let's leave it for memoirs. Really. But now, Mr. Pavilut, what is doing. We've been there years ago... In 2011, we entered politics, so to say, with their desire to bring Western values as such. The main of these, I will remind you, is the rule of law - the idea that one law - one justice for all. That any person in Latvia can feel that he is protected from allegiance, from bereavement, from all that you are doing right now. What you are doing at the moment - you are systematically undermining the rule of law in that country, trusting in the law as such. (Applause) That is why, I think, this is a very good question - who has betrayed. Regarding the same study by the World Bank on the port, which, yes, was ordered for, as I said, 100 thousand lats... And your party... How many times have we heard about this - evidence-based policy? You show me that at least once this study is mentioned in this annotation? At least what you now accept in one day without any debate, discussion - this is somehow based on this study, for which Latvian state taxpayers paid 100 thousand lats in the past? I think you know the answer to that question. And that answer is - no. Do you think you can make good decisions in this way during the day?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U27	Thank you. The debate is over. Thank you. The name of the Minister of Transport to Far Linkaith.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U28	Dear colleagues, This specific proposal deals with the success of the new public limited liability company. It is indicated here that the shares of the public limited liability company cannot be sold, disposed of and pledged. And that is also the official position of our government. We are clearly told in a government declaration that we are dealing with port management reform and not with port privatisation. We have no such mandate to privatise anything. That's it. Point. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U29	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U30	So, about this absurd show that is currently happening. We are talking about two different things. Yes, everything is clear with regard to this company. It is currently designed in such a way that privatisation cannot be carried out in respect of this company. But we are talking about the fact that it is not said that if it is reorganized, this new company will be subject to the same restrictions. This is what you rejected in the Commission, which you did not support, saying that, in fact, these rumours that wander through the streets of Riga are rumors for it (Dep. S. Riekstins: “You weren’t at all in the commission that you were baffling?” ) that port privatisation is actually being prepared for a certain investor... that it is valid. Otherwise, there is no argument. Come and tell me why you took it out and to a reorganized society... that it will be another company (Dep. Feldman: “You weren’t! You left!” )... There will be no such restrictions. I was the only one who had put forward proposals in the Commission at the time, and I also justified them. And I listened to all your counter-arguments. You had no counter argument - you invented all kinds of foolishness for only (Dep. S. Riekstins: “What are you gvelzing?” ) could cover the possibility of this privatisation. You didn't have such arguments. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Why did you leave the commission?” ) Don't get there from... What are you putting out of the corner? Come here and tell me! Do you have any arguments why it will be privatised when it is reorganized? Why did you oppose it? You still have the opportunity to correct and have the opportunity to prove that you are not actually serving the interests of a secret private investor. Support my proposal! There's still a chance. This proposal can still be supported. My proposal contained two parts. One - what you have done - is that the existing company will not be able to be privatised. The other is that it will not be possible to do so by way of reorganisation. It has been removed from the field. You will have the opportunity to prove that you really are in the state's interest and that here, under these state's interests, there are no schemes to execute any other political orders in parallel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U31	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U32	I do not really understand the discussion between my colleagues, which is what these disputes are about. Yeah... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “Maybe you should have prepared?” ) I could tell you briefly what the situation has been like so far. So far, in principle, State control over ports has been quite limited. Although formally there were board members (sharing - four and four), in fact the managing body of the port was usually determined... the municipality was chosen, and so far the ruling parties were in power in the government. And so you wanted or didn't want... was able to give himself the weight... and so in the country in fact... in a country that is a port that is a wealth of the whole country, not only a wealth of specific municipalities. In fact, these ports had a limited population. And these people then also acted at their own discretion with port wealth and money. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “You for Meroni?” ) Now we have achieved that, at last, we are recovering control of ports. Finally, the State regains control over the ports. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zariņš: “What is “We”? Clarifying!’ ) If, until now, ports - which could be thought - have been "privatisationd" for the benefit of some people, then at last we are recovering control and all the citizens of the country, not just some of the chosen ones, will benefit from ports. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U33	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U34	Either there is some apathy or forgetfulness, but let's just remember how ports are managed. There are four representatives of the municipality and four representatives of the state. To date. Is this effective? I think it's representative, maybe there could be two and two... But there is, at the same time, a municipality and a state where the idea was that a port in a certain municipality could not exist without the interests of the municipality, but only the interests of the municipality would be wrong, because the ports still have a function of state... There is a state on the top, and there was such a synergy. As a result, well... What are we... maybe we just end the bluff! If we say that there has been corruption in ports so far, this means that corruption was... It was not enough that corruption was limited to municipalities. It was also supposed to be in the country. At least one person. Or vice versa, all in the country and at least one in the municipality. Well, of course, there are still different mathematical combinations, there are three and five, or... seven and one and the same. But if we recognise - it has been publicly acknowledged in this sitting today several times - that ports have been corrupt, so we are in principle saying, and that is also what the United States has assessed, that we cannot achieve that at least five of the eight representatives (half-municipal, half-state) are not corrupt... At least five shall not be corrupt. So we say that the state and the local authorities, whether the municipality itself or the state itself, cannot (or all together) be unbalanced. And then it just needs to be said openly that... And I'm not saying that it's not working anywhere; it may be that it's even a good idea that ports must be privatised, that they must be handed over in the hands of fully private capital and that this risk must be mitigated if our country is one in which neither municipalities nor the country... in total - above 51 percent... there can be no unruly people. Well, maybe that's right. Just stop waking up! Well, what's the difference, will we leave only the country (in some individuals) or the municipality (in some individuals) because corruption will not be reduced from this already?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We're clear and bright... by any - mathematical, political or simple - logic here today, in the hall, we acknowledge. Then we also say that the best port management in Latvia has been transferred into the hands of private capital! And I'm not saying it can't really happen... in the sense that it is definitely the worst form of government. No, perhaps even very good. Let's just close the bluff! Well, that's my call.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U35	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U36	Yes, colleagues! On the proposal that has been tabled. Need to be privatised or not? I think port privatisation... It would be one rarely stupid move if we, even one, were to think in that direction of something like that. And if the committee responsible has made a proposal that does not allow it, it should be supported. I don't understand why you couldn't have partially supported Zarin's proposal if it once... Well, the tables don't reflect that, but... Well, that's... That's one. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “I will tell you why I couldn’t support it!” ) But the question is about the experiments that we mentioned with these amendments, which I have already mentioned... various studies... If you think that its exhibits are far overexploited and now in the country... the state is actually taking on... You don't even know exactly what you're going to do... And here I appeal to the Minister of Transport, calling really carefully... understand how port management can take place without a municipality. And that's going to be a challenge... not from the fact that one is taking part in the decision... or does not participate in the decision... but there are a number of cases that are closely linked to municipalities. Ventspils city - in my opinion, half of the city is in the free port area. And they are... these are, of course, indistinguishable questions. If, in the past, it was the municipality that fought on behalf of the population, for example, on the issue of dust, then who will now be the people who will fight on behalf of the population, will engage in their dialogue? ( Internouncing call.) If it's a country, then I'm sorry, it's going to be a very big challenge. And, among other things, property management and other issues... I think we're here... You've been voting here last week on very big things that... not be aware of the consequences that you will face in the near future. With regard to the benefits mentioned by Mr Butane. That all benefits from ports - it has already been experienced. And there have been such changes... And this port study, which colleagues mentioned here, was also the one from which recommendations came to return money to ports. Because those ports aren't just a lingering machine that we'll take out money. There's something to need here, too... deepened, the infrastructure needs to be developed. You have to do that for some money. If you start milking that money out, it will be the greatest foolish thing you can do, and early or late, we will end up in a situation where these ports will no longer bring the economic benefits they are bringing. And that's the big question! And I call on you, however, to think in the future not only about the narrow issue that is - privatised or not - but also about how to manage the port area successfully and return to the question... to some extent return to the question of how to restore the links that are currently being crossed with municipalities. In some way, municipalities have to return to port management... in any part of the minority. It's the greatest stupidity, the consequences of which you still... only in time you will understand, because it can do so and only people who have never been... can talk about it. has not been involved in the resolution of their issues. And you will see it early or late.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U37	Name to Member Janis Butan for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U38	So still, I look, its thoughts are many different. ( Internouncing call.) Let me just explain. To date, if it is said that a port needs to invest in order to make a profit... I can say that the state has invested tens of millions of euros in ports. Tens of millions! The country itself... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “And how many municipalities?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ No, no... The country has certainly invested more. ( Internouncing call.) Through the Structural Funds, the State has invested more than the municipality, but in return for public taxes it does not receive anything. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “How do you know?” ) That is one. Second. A businessman, to be successful and make a profit, cannot put his business on the ground, must invest, develop, and think about how to manage it more effectively. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “You’ve made just one company?” ) Thus, demagogy that, in some cases, the company will now land on the bottom of the port, does not withstand criticism.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U39	I closed the debate. In the name of the commission, what is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U40	It is only that the proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U41	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the proposal submitted by the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U42	Proposal No 5... In the light of the proposals previously supported, it is envisaged to exclude Article 1 of the draft law. That is the Commission's proposal, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U43	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U44	I understand that this is a technical proposal, so I would also technically like to put the order of things on the shelves. Here, from the troupe, British Member Butan said that ports are privatised and similar. I would like to remind you that in the oligarchs, in the 1990s, the assistant director-general of the Privatisation Agency was none other than our Minister for Transport, Tālis Linkaits. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Butan: “A what was Ivars Zarins?” ) I would like to remind you that: at what time were its ports seized through privatisation? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Butāns: “What was Ivars Zarins?” ) I am silent about the fact that this is now taking place further. And another little detail. To remove any doubts that the BIP is not related to Meroni... I know you like to go abroad to transfer your country... I am ready to draw up a legal document with a request to include a Swiss citizen in the Meroni sanctions list. You could take you to the countries where you drive your country to surrender. And so you would prove that you and Meroni have no connection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U45	I closed the debate. What should be said on behalf of the Commission about proposal 5?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U46	Only that it is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U47	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - the committee's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 64, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U48	Proposal No 6 - Proposal of a editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U49	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U50	7. ... So, let's start... Okay. As before, the regulation of Section 8 of the existing Law on management and management issues applies to all ports, as well as to the managing bodies of small ports and Riga ports, and in order to separate the management of these ports from the port of Ventspils, the third and fourth paragraphs of the Section should be clarified accordingly, as well as the Article should be supplemented by the seventh paragraph. In fact, this is one of this group of proposals. So seven. - a proposal from the committee responsible which has been approved by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U51	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U52	I think it has already said something, but I want to emphasise it. Since the Freeport of Ventspils is in fact accused of serious criminal offences in corruption, it is important to stress that it is necessary to separate from this corruption absolutely all persons operating on the respective boards in the port. This includes those friends and acquaintances you have placed in these feeds, not because they are port specialists. And let's be honest - Ģirts Valdis Kristovskis of Unity is one of the specialists in port matters? He must also be separated from this new organisation that you are creating. And if you do, then I'll really believe that you want to sort out port issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U53	I closed the debate. What is to be said on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U54	Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U55	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - the proposal submitted by the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 64, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U56	The next one is 8. - a proposal from the committee responsible, on the basis of which I have already referred to proposal 7. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U57	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U58	9. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is also from the same series. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U59	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U60	10 and... There is a proposal to create a new Article 8.1 on the port of the capital company Venta... According to the Commission proposal, Article 7 has been moved to a separate provision by adding a new paragraph 1.2, and Article 2 of the draft law should therefore be excluded by changing the numbering of future articles of the draft law accordingly. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U61	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U62	11. There is a Member Zarins' proposal, which we have already discussed, seems to be on proposal 4. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “What is he about? Why aren’t you reporting?” ) is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U63	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U64	This was not why the rapporteur wanted to talk about the proposal. What is this proposal about? The nature of the proposal is very simple - to address these concerns that all this current situation will not be used to privatise Latvian ports - an asset important to the whole state of Latvia. My proposal was to include exactly the same definition as for Latvenergo. So I haven't come up with anything, I just offer exactly the same protection as Latvenergo has been imposed on privatisation, put on Latvian ports. Why the ruling coalition did not like it. It was amusing to listen to arguments that in principle did not exist. Why should it be argued why such a proposal should not be supported? If you claim that what you are doing is honest, that is noble, that is in the interests of the country, that is clear and that everything is clear, then tell me why you needed such a procedure at the moment, so that all these amendments take place in this way, urgently, without giving them the opportunity to get acquainted with the opposition, simply putting these documents on the table as a matter of urgency and forcing them to accept them within one day? At second reading, when you convened a sitting which was announced literally a few minutes in advance, the documents were not available at all a few minutes before the sitting. So you have clearly shown that you are ignoring everything yourself, you are not interested in law, you are not interested in the roll of order, nor are you interested in the possibility here really, democratically, to debate it. For in principle you did not give the opportunity to prepare for anyone who had not participated in this process before. Thus, in principle, the position was excluded from all this. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “Stop lying, Ivar!” ) In addition,... Moreover, if we look now, this proposal is still valid. The question of reorganisation has not been resolved. So... In particular, privatisation can take place through reorganisation. Come and tell me why you've opposed it, just one valid argument. Why will Latvian ports still be allowed to privatise through reorganisation? Why do you want to leave this opportunity? If you do not do this, then, in fact, everything you did here today was simply because of this secret objective to get this piece of legislation being made. What is amusing - you demonstrate that “one law - one justice for all” does not exist. You are, on the one hand, setting a narrow, very short deadline for tabling proposals, and I was the only one who put forward a proposal within this deadline. You couldn't have prepared anything for yourself. Then the time is specially drawn, something is being prepared, re-schemeed, and then you come here and what you have re-schemeed, cast on the table at the last moment, literally in the last minutes. And you say, “It’s all. We have to vote for this!” You really believe that this is a legal, democratic and responsible process in which decisions of national importance are taken? Or you simply show by this that Latvia is not a democratic state; that Latvia does not exist as an independent democratic republic; that somewhere it has already been decided upon, you have come up with a figure and the Saeima has a simple button printing function. You have to come here and vote blindly. If that's not the case, come and tell me! Just explain why this construction has been chosen, why do you object that Latvian ports will not be able to privatise in the reorganisation process! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “Stop fantasizing!” ) If you cannot explain it and say it (Interfaces.) , then it means that the real purpose of all this illegal, non-democratic procedure for Latvian ports is only this. Do not talk or try to blow up bubbles here. What you're doing is simply sending a hybrid war against your country and trying to push out your narrow targets in your permissiveness, ignoring the laws, ignoring the political roll of order. Think of what you're doing! You still have a chance to fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U65	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U66	Coalition, be very careful, though. And I would advise you to follow the signs. I opened the press and reads (the press of today): “The strong wind blows down the two main spruces in Ventspils.” That's a sign. That's a sign! That's a sign! And in this particular case, it is a sign that you want to return the port in question to privatisation without telling the public. And I'll explain to you. Because here's a big part, I'm not going to make a big part of it, but I know at least one who only has secondary education and he needs a special explanation. Listen to me! Decision of 22 November 2006 of the Department of Civil Cases of the Senate of the Republic of Latvia. The subjectmatter of this decision is as follows: ‘As part of the reorganisation of commercial companies by way of a merger and the application of the merger process, the transfer of assets to another company... shall not be regarded as a disposal of assets.’ Thus, through reorganisation, the property is not disposed of and the shares are not disposed of, and that is what you are allowing to do without supporting Mr Zarina's proposal. That's what you're not telling the public. Why don't you tell the public? I can explain this to you too. Why is Ģirts Valdis Kristovskis currently in this position? He's an expert, isn't he? Port matters. I read the press, nothing else, just the press. What is written in the press? Independent expert from the New Unity, independent expert from the New Unity Ģirts Valdis Kristovskis for 5 thousand euros per month... eats from “Ventbunker” money! (Applause) Who manages Ventbunker? Meroni. What's not reported? There is a KP in the Year Saeima. In the fight with oligarchs (all in a row), with oligarchs and oligarch eggs fight, but with Meroni does not fight, never fight. That is why I repeat and say again, Juta Strike, especially for you. If you take a letter to America or to another country with a request to include a Swiss citizen on the sanctions list, then I will climb this platform and show you that I have Shlesser's eggs. Thank you. (Laughter) Depp. S. Riekstins: “You don’t even have your own!” ; transcript: ‘Exhibitionist!’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U67	Show does not need to be displayed. The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U68	Colleagues, as I said before in the previous sitting, have no doubt that a hidden privatisation of ports is being prepared both in Ventspils and Riga. I have no doubts. I certainly don't feel like a specialist in melution or a piano game, or anything else... But I'll probably be the only one who holds a master's diploma and who also understands something from ports, unlike many other municipalities... representatives of the State operating there. And, you know, there are all kinds of accusations going on here. It is a great pleasure that Mr. Sarmulis, the manager of one or the other port, has been running the port of freedom for 25 years... But he was an expert in the high wheat. You're climbing here in the trek, talking about corruption on one, the other, the third. Please, please, please, the honourable coalition, a how many applications have you made about cases of corruption in the Freeport of Ventspils or Riga? The Minister of Transport is home with the head that he has received information about possible cases of corruption. If you have not written a report, an application to KNAB, then you are automatically involved in the crime. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “How do you know?” ) If you have any of the following information: ( Internoint.) (Laughter) And what is the dispute about? And then what will we achieve? In the end, we will make sure that there is no transit at all. Seafarers are very conservative in nature. And as soon as the reputations of one port or the other port are at stake, you'll never get back the loads that go away. Here Mr Gobzem is absolutely right, and Mr Schmidt, when he spoke, said that Tallinn and Klaipeda are already rubbing their hands. No new cargo here. You have done everything to damage it all, and you do not even want to support Mr Zarina's proposal, which states that there is no suspicion that the ports concerned will not be privatised in secret.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U69	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U70	I'd like to keep those signs... Here, behind this door, is the Red Hall of the Saeima. It's about to get the lamps down there... If you continue to do so, both of the plates on the wall, on which Articles 1 and 2 of the Satversme are written, will come off from shame. And it's not funny. ( Internouncing call.) That's what you're talking about about... Specifically, to... It is about your actions - grab the roll of order of the Saeima, grab the legislative process, grab the public, not to tell them everything to the end. And so I'm not surprised I'm... Here before Members who apparently are such, either somehow on corruption or on theft contract, it is written: “Do not touch microphones, please.” Because a normal Member should probably not put that mark in front of him. Does that apply to you, coalition? Who do you want to privatise its ports? In this particular case, I think you have to get up on the platform and say that. Because, without supporting Mr Zarina's proposal, you are giving the opportunity to actually circumvent the legal provision in question, because that provision only concerns the prohibition of the disposal of shares, but there is nothing about other forms of disposal that can be carried out by way of reorganisation, by way of business transition, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U71	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U72	Colleagues! Several sittings back I found that this triple has become “Everything that is in the heart!” Tribines. Indeed, this troupe has become... “Everything to the heart!” Imagine the debate on Member Zarins' proposal for a port... The privatisation of the port of Venta, where we have not been - there have been corruption, there have been plates... And some Members have even been able to prepare for Easter because they have talked about eggs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U73	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U74	Sometimes I feel like I have to remind myself of some kind of things that I have long forgotten. One is about Meroni, who now is good and has donated half of the Saeima for this moment as you can understand. Just remember, no matter how bad Lemberg is, then Meroni, his right hand. Meroni was the guy who created Ventspils... all the Ventspils Empire, if, simply so, remember! So if you think you got money from Meroni, not Lemberg... No, no, you got from Lemberg. (Laughter) Not from each other! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Who received it?” ) The fact that Lemberg may have been disappointed is a different thing. And you're satisfied... You (Interior: “What - “you””?) )... You, those in the room, a lot. There you go! That's one thing I wanted to remind you. There are a few more things. If you think... And I'm interesting here... You have to remember. Aldis Gobzems has to call... I really had missed that Ģirts Valdis Kristovskis was now the main destination of Ventspils. Wow! Slice-thrower. And here's the National Association, I'm looking... He was in different parties... were in all sorts of, but also in the National Association. You should remember what he called when he was with you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Salannieks: “Fatherland and freedom!” ) Well, in one of your departments, I'm sorry, yes. ( Internouncing call.) Remember what his name was? Esman. ( Interface: “Do not talk to the grass! ” ) He was called Esman. It has nothing to do with the SS (to avoid misunderstandings), but two roots – “I” and “me”. ‘ I’ and “to me”. So count that the port has already been privatised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U75	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U76	Dear colleagues, Here's a simple question for you. If you really don't plan to privatise... Maybe that's what it's like... the port of Ventspils, what problem to support Ivars Zarins' proposal? What's wrong with that? Otherwise it's just proof, well, the opposite, if you're not ready to support it, then it means that you have some plans there. That's one. Second. With regard to everything, well, the rule of law with which it is all... all this is done. I'm so... We talked about memories here. Recently, the President of Latvia had invited the heads of several commissions to discuss, so to speak, the cases of Saeima. It was quite interesting that mostly - mostly! - the conversation was about some... Heads of some commissions, particularly on behalf of unnamed ones, in particular the Head of the Legal Commission (Laughter) , complained to the President of State about the Law Office. Somehow it does not support that legal office, at least its individual employees. Disruption of “without compromises for the rule of law”. And now we hear that the Saeima Bureau has decided not to award bonuses to the Legal Office. Is that so? That's what it could be? ( Milestones.) Just a question. Well, I think... ask rhetorically how all this “records” in that law... in the rule of law triumph “uncompromising in the rule of law” or which is there. I... Well, at least really... Those of you who come with it as the main slogan - values, well, the rule of law. Not this party, no. You really don't understand what's going on? What event have you now been participating in? And what will this lead to? Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U77	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U78	Colleagues! The day has been long, and really, at the end of the day, try to still concentrate and understand in detail what is in all these proposals is not an easy task. Perhaps this is also the case, and it may not be the case. And, in substance, on proposal 11, I really mean Ivars Zarins... probably would not be ready to accept the part that says that this joint stock company, the Port of Venta... that it is an economically important object. A public limited liability company can never be an economically important object in itself, because we (Dep. D. Reizniece–Ozola: “If assets are transferred, then there will be!” )... because we know, let's say, Finland's example with NOKIA (Interface) ... If we remember Finland's example of NOKIA, which was, say, a rubber footwear company and then turned into an industry flagship in the field of information technology, telecommunications, then we can see through this that, in principle, a variety of changes can take place within a joint stock company as a shell. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “It’s the same thing as Latvenergo! I haven’t come up with anything!” ) Of course, colleagues say that there is an example of Latvenergo in this case, or not, which is an analogue, and that is why my criticism would perhaps also apply to it. But I also wanted to talk here about the second part of this article, which Mr Zarins has proposed. And it's really the one that makes me think, and that's why I actually came to the platform. And then... These are the things that Mr Schmidt and Mr Gobzem have already spoken about. What is this about? It's about why I don't want to record now, today... The majority of Saeima Members do not want to record the fact that, even if this joint stock company is transformed, it will not be privatable. And then it makes us think about the following possible scenarios: that perhaps now the majority of votes to get this option through is enough, but what will happen after a while, given that we in the Saeima too are gradually transformed those proportions of forces? What will happen in the future if there is no real conviction? Otherwise, if this conviction were to exist, I think you would support the Zariņš proposal calmly. And at a time when it would be important for you, you would also vote for their privatisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U79	Name to Member Daniel Pavilut.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U80	Dear colleagues, I was pleased to hear the concerns expressed by my colleague Vucanas about the fact that perhaps this statement by Mr Zarins could not be supported at all. I think so too. Maybe I'm salty for another reason. In the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, when this proposal was discussed (and you note that I am speaking, unlike one another, about the proposal), possible risks were discussed from this very wording. I allowed me to express my concern that such a ban on expropriation could prevent the implementation of the intentions that we discussed a week ago. I would remind you that a week ago, we commissioned the Ministry of Transport to come to the Saeima before 1 July with a port administration reform package, in which (my personal opinion) the municipality should also appear as a part of the capital for one of the holders in the case of these ports as capital companies. On the other hand, by denying disposal, we are also preventing the transfer of shares to the municipality. That was my view. I expressed such concern. I would remind you that Mr Zarins did not come to that part of the meeting of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, where these proposals were, by nature, debated in the presence of the Legal Bureau. Perhaps if such a motivated discussion had been held, we, as the Commission, could have decided - partly to support Mr Zarina's proposal - and then we could not discuss it at the moment. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U81	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U82	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, One question is, is the Freeport of Ventspils a shell, is it a company? 250 people still work there. And it's a third of the port turnover in Latvia. I think it's a big company. And Ventspils Freeport meets the world's highest corporate governance and accounting standards, as demonstrated by the audit carried out last year by PricewaterhouseCoopers. Why did the Commission not have this conclusion? Tell me, please - why were the Ventspils Freeport experts not invited? There are qualified professionals who will now be on leave. I'm sorry, 250 people - it's very much for a small city like Ventspils. It is good that there will now be an object of the national economy in this port, but I think that my colleague Zarins's proposal that the object is not privatised is completely in place and I ask you to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U83	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U84	Now, when your wolf’s ears begin to shine through the lamb that you have put at a speed and tried to sell yourself, that you are an innocent lamb that you try to get inside, you suddenly start to say, “Yes, where are the arguments?” All the arguments were there. I came to the sitting and presented all my arguments, I explained. And now there is a debate. If you have heard and these arguments have suddenly worked for you, then what problems do you have to support now with this proposal? Then take it and support it! My proposal is very clear. I made it very clear. That proposal is therefore the analogue version of Latvenergo. This version of Latvenergo was once put into a sharp and harsh debate in order to find in the end this formulation, which will really ensure that Latvenergo will not be able to privatise. And there were two of these things. One that has been placed by the Legal Office is that we have no contradictions with the Legal Office here. The other thing is about reorganisation, which is not in the version you supported. That is why my wording should be supported. If you really... you need this port not to be privatised. If your plan is not now under this sense that you are carrying, get in all the other things so that Latvian ports can be privatised. If that is not the case, then you should support my proposal. If you do not support it, at least come and say one more argument why you object that the port cannot be privatised through reorganisation. Otherwise, I think everyone is clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U85	I closed the debate. For the Commission...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U86	The Commission has therefore not supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U87	Neither can the proposal be put to the vote, because it concerns a rule of law that is excluded.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U88	Okay. Let's go. Proposal No 12. Its essence is to clarify the composition of the Ports Council led by the Prime Minister, to exclude the representative of the Latvian Ports Association and to include a representative of the new capital company. Turn off this... combine the second and third paragraphs of Article 3 of the draft law and express it as a second paragraph in the corresponding wording. Commission proposal Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U89	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U90	3. and the commission responsible...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U91	13.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U92	13, I'm sorry, 13. - a proposal from the committee responsible, an improvement in the legal technique. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U93	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U94	Proposal No 14. Thus, given that the draft law has generally changed its concept, many issues are dealt with in the transitional provisions. That is why this proposal is very long. That is the Commission's proposal, which has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U95	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U96	I understand that you are hasty, but in this proposal that you will vote on, there is a slight but yet ridiculous grammatical error. For readings: ‘Complement the transitional provisions with paragraph 15 in the following version...’. I quote: “... Until the date of entry into force of the law amending the Latvian port management model in accordance with... “ and listen! ‘ ... the principles of good international governance...’. I understand that you want to emphasise "good governance", but... However... when laws are drafted, a little bit at the quality should... Now a little bit of a quality should also be observed, because people will read such laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U97	The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U98	Yes, honourable colleagues, this proposal is really very large, in my view conceptual, and also to be corrected. The proposal deals with a number of serious matters – both principles of good governance, the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, the members of the board and their competence, and the land of the Ventspils port and other interesting things. I would therefore simply like you to listen to my views on these processes, on this proposal, on what is currently happening in the Saeima in the context of the transit sector in Latvia. And think about the consequences, please. Now, you see, the transit sector as a whole is facing new challenges in terms of substance, and that is what we see in terms of a decrease in cargo volumes from Russia. For example, this month, the number of railway wagons coming from this country in Latvian ports has decreased by more than 30 percent compared to the previous months. And this is a very serious test without them all sanctions. Shipping companies around the world are warned, as we know, of the sanctions they are threatened with if Ventspils port services are used after 8 January. It is clear that the situation when the USA has imposed sanctions against the Mayor of Ventspils Aivars Lembergs and the Freeport of Ventspils administration will not hesitate to use the ports of neighbouring countries. And I'll tell you a little more about Klaipeda. The decision of the U.S. Treasury on the imposition of sanctions against Lembergs personally and against the Freeport of Ventspils administration has been quite unexpected for many people in Latvia, and at the moment no one can tell exactly what exactly the consequences of this... the impact it will have on economic processes, and hence on the operation of all ports in the Baltic region. Let us be honest! I think that the impact will not be a sign of a positive effect, because all these processes have a great impact on the business environment and companies suffer, which is clear in all ports in Latvia. As far as the port of Ventspils is concerned, Ventspils port has historically always had a rather specific segment of cargo - oil products and coal - which in other ports is also, but now much less. And as far as the port of Klaipeda is concerned, the port of Klaipeda has already announced that it sees an opportunity to take over part of Ventspils cargos related to the transhipment of petroleum products. And such an opportunity is very real and quite credible. Some of the cargos handled so far in Ventspils could indeed go to Lithuania, as restrictions and sanctions imposed on Ventspils may, in essence, lead many companies involved in transit business to seek lower risks and higher predictability for their activities. And now, I believe, we all have such a waiting time (yes, we are thinking people!) to understand in general the possible further development of the situation in Latvia, the role of the state in these processes, the role of the government and involvement. Because last week the responsible representatives of the government said - and today the Minister and individual Members from the Saeima have said - that a solution for lifting sanctions at the Freeport of Ventspils is being sought at transnational level. And that is why I really want to wish success and to solve this problem more quickly. Because those involved in the port, those working in the ports, too... Also in the ranks, you know... There people desperately fight for every tonne of cargo to survive, so that families have something to eat, so that there is a reward for normal and so forth. And I'd like to hope that today all the speakers of the Saeima clearly understand that. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U99	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U100	On the legal technique why this proposal is not legally correct. That grammatical thing I've already mentioned - it's one thing, but... the term ‘international good governance’ does not exist in substance. In the absence of international principles of good governance and local principles of good governance, there are simply principles of good governance. This is a legally incorrect wording in itself. It's an extra grammar. The other thing is technical. So we read: how management of such a port will then be chosen. The Management Board shall be composed of four members nominated by the Minister for Economic Affairs, the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. I would recommend replacing the words "designated representatives" with the word "chami". This is more in line with reality, because principles of good governance require that such persons are selected in a serious competition, including international competition, rather than appointing their friends or acquaintances, such as Ģirts Valdis Kristovskis of the New Unity, which is the largest expert for us now in all issues of Latvian ports. But I repeat: such a hurry, as you did, it's just proof... proof of how poor the draft laws are being prepared in Latvia. An elementary thing - the repetition of words, an elementary legal problem of the fact that there are no principles of international good governance in general. And it's not understandable if it's meant to be good governance principles, if it's some other international principles, and so on. And such mistakes are made precisely because you rush into having an emergency sitting every 15 minutes and so on.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U101	The debate is over. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U102	Now this proposal is simply another proof that what is currently happening is one big farce, whether by form, by procedure or by substance. The attempt was like that... Like today on the street outside... In a windbreak one tries to push through the Saeima as a blind voting machine for some of the necessary amendments to the law, which, as we can see, can prove to be quite different from what is said to the public, in order to prepare the soil for the ongoing large-scale privatisation. Whatever you say, that's unfortunately... There is reason to think that if you don't come here and say no argument to disprove it. I'm sorry. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U103	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U104	Colleagues! I have already said today that we are all together, both in the position and in the opposition, who understand the situation that has arisen, are interested in this draft law, both these draft laws being drafted in such a way that its problem is tackled as effectively as possible, so that we do not have to return to this case. At a high pace, these faults are really stealing. I appreciate what is usually corrected by the Legal Office, but this time that has been the pace, too, that the Legal Bureau experts have not been able to deliver what they normally provide at this pace, and this article contains both... Let's say, well, that's good, hello... Transfers to Lithuanian... The case referred to by Mr Gobzem. But if we read further, there are a number of things that, if there had been enough time and sufficient detail in the text, would have been purely grammatical, because now, when we talk about how that port will be regulated... Once again, as it is written: “... its operation shall be governed by a statute approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. The Cabinet of Ministers shall issue the regulations of the Cabinet referred to in this subparagraph by 1 February 2020.’ That subparagraph does not refer to such provisions. It should have been said in advance that the Bureau is issuing regulations approving this provision and could then make such a reference. And these are just, well, mistakes, really fees for haste. Nevertheless, this obviously also needs to be confirmed, such an erroneous correction, but if this bill is to be released again, I nevertheless call for these semantic, grammatical and other errors to be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U105	I closed the debate. In the name of the commission, what is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U106	So, on behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support proposal 14, with a corresponding editorial adjustment, with the exception of this one redundant word for "good". ( Milestones: “How can it be?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ And that’s what it will be when you read it. ... I call for support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U107	Members (Interim) ... Are Members in favour? ( The box “Yes! ”) , “No!” ) Members want to vote? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: "What do I want to vote for?" “Yes!” ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of 14. - the proposal submitted by the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “WOMAN, go home! You have not voted!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U108	All the proposals have been examined. Please support the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Ports Act’ (No. 531/Lp13) for the second final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U109	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on the second, final, reading of the Ports Act! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's not 4, it's not. The law is passed. ( Internouncing call.) Draft law “Amendments to Ventspils Freeport Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U110	At the meeting of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, the draft law “Amendments to Ventspils Freeport Law” (No. 532/Lp13). Four proposals have been received and are also included in the table. All these are proposals from the responsible commission. The proposal is based on the fact that the existing law uses different terminology. It shall be clarified in accordance with the provisions of the Ports Act. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U111	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U112	Proposal No 2 It is, by its very nature, a historic rule that is excluded because it duplicated the provision on the composition of the port board in the Ports Act; it is now included in paragraph 15 of the Transitional Provisions of the Ports Act. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U113	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U114	I understand that paper endures everything and can be beautifully written on paper... "international principles of good governance" such as: But that does not mean that they will be in life. And that example is very simple. Why will these principles of good governance not be respected in this governance model? That's... The reality is that now... representatives of specific political parties will be placed on the specific port boards; when the government changes, these representatives of the port boards will also... as has already been adopted in practice, it will be changed. Will this ensure the successful development of ports? I don't think so. The only right solution is to appoint professional people, not, say, friends or acquaintances chosen by ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U115	I closed the debate. What is to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U116	On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U117	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the committee's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U118	3. - the proposal from the committee responsible, which is in fact already... in fact, a proposal for a change of terminology. By analogy, as before, the words ‘the Port Authority’ shall be replaced by the words ‘the Freeport Authority’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U119	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U120	And the Commission's proposal is in charge. Similarly, management issues specific to port law are included in the transitional provisions in order to make a clear distinction between competences. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U121	Let's start a debate. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U122	Dear colleagues, At this point in time, I think there is a lack of another very important thing in the debate on these draft laws, including on this proposal. What is happening in this area not only affects the business environment, but also suffers from workers working in this area. So when I talk about the authors of this proposal, I think maybe the Minister, maybe the rapporteur, but rather the Minister here, should immediately and now reassure the people working in this sector. They need clear guarantees, which no one is talking about, that the situation of the workers will not deteriorate, the income level will not decrease and future people will have work in both Ventspils port, Riga port and elsewhere. And all the authors of the proposal, the commission, must understand that, from the moment when distrust was expressed for the management of Latvian ports and the activities of corporate management was questioned, their employees express great concern about how and how the possible reforms will affect their employment and social situation. Therefore, the comments that would have been made on this matter are essentially from the rapporteur or the minister. This is very important. Nobody's talking about it... Unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U123	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U124	On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U125	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the committee's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U126	Thank you. All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call for support to be given to the relevant draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U127	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to Ventspils Freeport Law” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 64, for - 4, for - 1. The law is passed. Thank you to the Minister for Transport for taking part in the Saeima sitting and debate. We have examined the agenda of the sitting. Please call me! I request the registration of the presence of Members. Name Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for the results of registration as soon as they are prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U128	Not registered: Artuss Kaimiņš, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Armands Krauze... yes, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Igor Pimenov, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Ivan Ribakov, Lubova Švecova... Ribakov is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2029-U129	Thank you. I closed the third extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 18 December 2019.
