ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take a seat in the Chamber so that we can begin the sitting of the Saeima on 9 May 2019. Dear colleagues, On May 6, we received a painful message. As part of the Second World War bombing mission conducted by NATO soldiers, the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces of Albania, Zariff Hasanaya, died in an explosion at the Adazi military base and two more Albanian soldiers were injured. One situation is very difficult, and doctors are fighting for his life. Let us mention the death of Lt. Zarifi Hasanaya with a minute's silence. ( A moment of silence.) Thank you. Dear colleagues, Let us start by looking at the agenda of the Saeima sitting. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. The Foreign Commission is asking for the draft decision on the deportation of Crimean Tatars on the 75th anniversary and support for Crimean policy of non-recognition of illegal annexation. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks that the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals be included on the agenda of the meeting (No. (77/Lp13) for the second reading until 31 May 2019.’ Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. On the agenda - reports by the Saeima Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. Thus, the Foreign Affairs Commission has tabled an own-initiative proposal - draft decision on the 75th anniversary of Crimean Tatar deportation and support for the policy of non-recognition of the illegal annexation of Crimea. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. On the granting of leave. On 8 May this year, Mr Janina Kursīte-Pakulė was granted unpaid leave. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Janina Kursīte-Pakules to grant her unpaid leave on 8 May this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. On 15 and 16 May this year, Mr Rainis Znotiņš was granted unpaid leave. Honourable Members! We must vote in favour of granting leave. Please call me! We will be voting for the granting of unpaid leave to Member Rainis Znotiņš on 15 and 16 May this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to law on preservation, use of documents of the former State Security Committee and fact of cooperation of persons with detection of the KGB”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Mr Andrejs Judine, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U2	Good morning, honourable colleagues! I would like to remind you that we decided to amend the law in order to ensure that the documents of the former KGB were made public. At the beginning of the year, when establishing that there are uncertainties regarding the application of the law, it was decided to amend the law and to make it clear that all KGB documents are published and available to both researchers and everyone who has an interest. Yesterday, in the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, we took stock of the proposals made. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to thank the Legal Bureau and Member Ritvar Janson, who helped to develop a better, more precise wording. Seven proposals have been received. All proposals have been formulated in the form of commission proposals and have all been unanimously supported. Consequently, I hope that we will also be able to examine this draft law quickly. 1. is the proposal of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, which provides that documents which do not contain information about victims - third parties - or information about the health status, sexual orientation and sexual life of the persons referred to in Article 3 of this Law shall be publicly available in the National Archives of Latvia without restrictions. In the past, if all the information that has been published... Let's say there's no such data. We are also currently making editorial amendments, and basically the archive will be responsible for not having access to that information, sensitive information. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U3	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U4	Proposals 2 and 3 are interrelated. Proposal No 2 provided that... I am sorry, paragraph 8 of the first paragraph of Article 7.2 provided that the CPVO’s operational and operational files and other documents were to be made public. With regard to that provision, it was reasonable, in my opinion, to consider that all documents are accessible to the public, but that provision was unfortunately read differently, and it was therefore decided to exclude the words ‘and other documents of the KGB’ from paragraph 8 of the first paragraph of Article 7.2, while at the same time creating a new point where it is made clear and clear that all documents of the KGB are to be published. Proposal 2 has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U5	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U6	And 3, as I said, there is a proposal on this. This provides for the addition of Article 7.2 with a new paragraph 16, which states that other GPS documents are also to be published. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U7	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U8	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Please support both proposal 3 and the other proposals supported by the Second Reading Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, as it should be noted that (The Head of the sitting knocks down with a hammer.) The study of KGB documents is ongoing. New documents that will be discovered by researchers will be presented. In order not to open every time the so-called Law of the KGB and politicians must determine which documents are published, this function must be entrusted to the National Archives of Latvia. The archives will best know which KGB documents are still to be published in addition to those already expected to be published. Thus, for example, crucial documents will come from the Information Centre of the Ministry of the Interior. They show how the security authorities destroyed Latvian citizens and deport them in 1949, they may be much more important than other groups of documents, but not yet included in the law. Thus, the archive, using all data protection... With respect to personal data protection, you will be able to choose these documents yourself and publish them on your website. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U9	I closed the debate. The Member supports the proposal. Members support the proposal supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U10	The Commission has supported this. Proposal No 4 has also been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U11	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U12	5. The proposal provides for the replacement of the word "decision" by "decision". When we discussed yesterday, we found that, of course, the court can make judgments, but there can also be decisions, and we should use a word that covers both concepts - both judgment and judgment. It is therefore intended to replace the word ‘judgment’ by ‘decision’. And given that the decision may contain a decisive part, it is also envisaged that... In fact, write as follows: ‘... the operative or operative parts of a judicial decision given by...’. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U13	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U14	6. - the proposal of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, which provides that its procedures, which will be established by the amendments under consideration, will also apply to decisions published last year. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U15	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U16	Finally, the proposal provides for the entry into force of the law on 1 June 2019. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U17	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U18	Please support the draft law at final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U19	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the law “On the preservation, use of documents of the former State Security Committee and fact of cooperation of persons with detection of the KGB”” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Documents for Persons”, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Inese Ikstena.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U20	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Good morning, colleagues! The Commission of State Administration and Local Government has examined proposals for the third reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Documents for Persons”. We received nine proposals for the third reading, both editorial and substantive. The proposal is substantive and tabled by Mārtiņš Bondars. I would like to add that this proposal was not supported by the Commission due to a lot of uncertainties, the issue of the Latvian citizen's travel passport... inclusion of proposals... because it is not clear whether it should be a passport or a citizen's travel passport. Unfortunately, the Ministry of the Interior and the PMLP were also not prepared to provide explanations to the Commission. The Commission has therefore not supported this proposal for this time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U21	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U22	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, This proposal will, first of all, improve our citizens... The security of fellow citizens, on the other hand, will expand opportunities and, thirdly, very simply increase economic activity in the country. Many demand: “Why do two passports are needed?” I'll tell you. Just do it! There are people in Latvia who produce in China and sell in Russia. And the situation is that when they submit a passport to get a visa to one country, they can't go to another country because there's no passport. If there were two passports, this issue would be resolved. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Adamson: “Better three!” ) Next. Colleagues, there are also citizens in Latvia who, if they are located in a third country, want to travel to another third country. And it turns out that in this third country they have to get a visa. To get a visa - what should they do? I need a passport. This means that in this third country they remain without any document - an official document - to certify their person. For example, if a Latvian citizen who is based in the Republic of South Africa wants to travel to Namibia, then a passport is returned to the Embassy of Namibia and the Latvian citizen remains undocumented. ( Internouncing call.) And finally. Our fellow citizens... It's also about security... Our fellow citizens are heading to countries that are at risk from one another. — Dep. A. Neighbours: ‘For example?’ )... Well, not so, in friendly relations with each other. It would be better to use one passport for that country and another for that country. And that would solve the situation. Then nobody could be accused that you, sir or ma'am, are driving to these... Well, to our unfriendly places. These are three simple arguments (probably there are others) why two passports - one passport - are needed. And there are countries where it is. I know that the PMLP argues: “It will pay money.” Colleagues, it's going to cost money! The citizens who receive these passports will pay for them. It's a paid service. This is not a free service. So that the country won't spend any cents. The second argument of the PMLP is: “Oh, we reprogram systems! This will take three years." People, for three years?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Good morning! I think if you want not to do it, you can say that it will take 10 years. Just have to hit that bull at the horns. The proposal provides that not immediately after the entry into force of the norm of this law two passports will have to be issued. No, no! The PMLP will only have to do this with July 1 next year. Colleagues! If we find that, for really objective reasons, the CLP is unable to deliver it on 1 July 2020, then we will do it for another half a year or more! Let's go against these people! Well, let's help our bureaucracy by giving us time! It's easy! Everything's simple! Therefore, colleagues, I have a proposal to support all three of my proposals so that, at last, Latvian citizens have more opportunities, greater security and the economic space of Latvia will expand. Thank you in advance for your support. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U23	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U24	Good morning! I am very pleased that, at last, we have taken up the issue of solving the main problems of people, and I would call for support for this proposal, but perhaps then go even further, so that people do not have problems - those who travel a lot - just give a passport to each country (interfaces.) To be able to travel to each country. Then there will be no bureaucratic problem if the passport is stuck in an embassy to obtain a visa. That is, of course, a bit of humor. In my opinion, the proposal is not logical in nature, because it is not really normal for people to have several passports at the same time, but I call on the opposition to support it and go further: to make it easier for people - even hundreds of passports for everyone! The passport for every country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U25	I closed the debate. In the name of the commission, what is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U26	None.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U27	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Mr Bondar's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 44, for - 9. The proposal is not supported. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U28	2. - Member Mārtiņš Bondara's offer regarding Latvian citizen's travel passport. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U29	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U30	The proposal is editorial and supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U31	Members... Proposal 3 is partly supported and included in proposal 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U32	... included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U33	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U34	4. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U35	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U36	5. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U37	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U38	6. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U39	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U40	7. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U41	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U42	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U43	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U44	9. - Member Martin Bondard's proposal for a travel passport. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U45	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U46	Please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U47	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Documents for Persons” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to Law “On Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of State Officials”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juta Strike.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U48	Hello, dear colleagues! The Legal Commission has supported the draft law submitted by several Members, including myself, ‘Amendment to the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the activities of public officials’. The proposed amendment to the law is another step towards reducing the impact of money on politics. The draft law provides for a restriction on several senior officials, including a member of the Saeima, to receive remuneration for work in associations or foundations. We are clearly aware that participation in non-governmental organisations is usually voluntary. Usually people work in them to benefit society. Most often, such associations, with a wide range of members, are financially supported by their members so that money can be dedicated to a specific purpose. In practice, the Society’s funding usually comes from members’ money, donations, or participation in projects. In some societies, however, employees are generously rewarded. It is unusual that some associations have a very narrow range of sponsors and unclear sources of funding. For your reflection, the facts about Latvia from the World Donation Index, where Latvia has been in the lower part of the list for several years. These are indicators that describe participation in voluntary work. Of the 145 countries, we are in the 128th position. Our neighbouring countries and most of the other European countries are deeply ahead of us. Is this not a problem that we should worry about? This is not a bill to ban officials from working in associations! On the contrary, this is a draft law to encourage the participation of members in non-governmental organisations for ideal reasons - without pay, that is to say, giving it its free time, but doing its basic work in the public administration, the Saeima or executive power, and obtaining, of course, its most important income there. This is a draft law against hidden payments to senior state officials, politicians, executive officers. This is a draft law against paid lobbies in Parliament and executive positions. Of course, already when the draft law was examined by the Legal Commission, there was a heated debate about the range of officials to whom it could apply and about the type of income. Is it just wages or other costs of remuneration, such as mission allowances? Of course, we still have a heated debate on all these issues. This is one of the works to build the ground for a fair policy in the Saeima and the Cabinet of Ministers, thus increasing the nation's confidence in the state power. I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U49	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U50	Dear colleagues, Some time ago, our colleague was 13. In the family that was my colleague also 12. In the family, there were very good things from this platform. He said that you should love a woman, but you should not love power. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “That’s what he said, yes!” ) That this is wrong. Yes, Mr. Kaimiņš said this, and I absolutely agree with him. I just can't understand why Mr. Neminis, who has taken care of the love of power, has signed this bill. Perhaps in the hope of so small avenge some Members of the Saeima, some of their colleagues? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “What connection?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “) In the Legal Commission, we really had a very sharp debate about this draft law. And I wanted to understand what is the problem that the 10 Members of the Saeima want to solve with this bill. Who is the Member of the Saeima who they want to address? What do you think? Mr. Valaiņš's name was said. Mr Valaiņš is a Member of the opposition. ( The utterances are: “Aye! ” ; “ Ooo!” ) Thus, this draft law is aimed at limiting the possibilities for Mr Valaiņš and perhaps other members of the opposition to cooperate with the non-governmental sector and receive fair remuneration for his work. This was so great for those who signed this bill that they forgot that it would hit them too. ( Interface: ‘ Which? ’) ) Mr Judin, for example, is one of those who apparently had (or may still have) the opportunity to receive remuneration for the various activities of Providus. And something really will have to be corrected in this draft law. It was also said by the representatives of Providus. But if we talk about the fact that this draft law will improve the prestige of the Saeima to some extent, according to the applicants, then I really have very great doubts. Because the prestige of the Saeima cannot be improved by such a small-scale desire to turn the opposition into MEPs while - while - it is! - You're still in power. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “What does it mean at all?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ Because this bill is by no means intended to be applied to 14. Saeima, to those colleagues you don't even know yet. No, the applicants want this draft law to be operational now. This means that the applicants, using their position, want to avenge Mr. Valaiņš, the Latvian Municipal Union and perhaps someone else. ( The box “What Is About? ”) ) Because the statement, which is in principle an integral part of the draft law, states a very strange assumption: “The essential aspect of the implementation of the draft law is the remuneration of the Member, which is paid from opaque means that are not subject to regulatory regulation.” So when thinking about Mr. Valaiņš, the applicants probably made the assumption that the funds of the Latvian Municipal Union were opaque... is not subject to the Association of the Great Cities of Latvia (Interface: “Association of the Great Cities!” )... which are not subject to regulatory regulation. Dear colleagues, The penetration of power is so great, and the desire to exercise your position is so great that it really resembles an grandfather of the fairy tale of a golden fish. ( Insight: “A all thought about Valaini! ” ) This grandfather wanted more and more, sent his husband’s fishermen to a golden fish, he walked, sighed and roared at the waving sea and thought, “What else does that grandfather want?” You are now the grandfather who's completely hung out of the power that she's just fallen into her hands. If you really want to make the Saeima prestigious, think about what coalition Members' initiatives you have put to the Saeima during this six-month period. What have you done... With the exception of revenge and power... What really makes the Saeima more prestigious? Nothing. Only revenge and smallness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U51	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U52	For revenge, for smallness, for the eye of the eagle... I can't see my signature here, Julia Stepanenko. I see that the first applicant is Aldis Blumbergs, a member of the KPV LV Group, then from the UK is Juta Strike, Krišjānis Feldmans, Rancāns, Riekstins, Budrikis, Mr Gunna, from the KPV LV Group - Mr Ģirgens, Mr Geidans and Mr Zakatistov. Where is Mr. Neighbours? ( Internouncing call.) It's when you're sitting on the Twitter until two o'clock at night. (Laughter) Thank you very much. Talking about associations, about revenge... Yes, indeed, I also have an association. It is known as ‘Who owns the State’. My declaration shows that I have a society, I am the only member of the board. I don't get a reward. In principle, you could not set up a party in a different way if you don't have an association. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “Well, can!” ) Well, you know, the first batch can't! First! But the idea is that Mr. Valaiņš really receives from the Association of the Great Cities of Latvia - how much? Three thousand euros coming? Mr. Schmit is similar - from a fish society... industrial... or like... Here we have two such candidates. This is not about revenge. This is about the second salary. You yourself, the two of you sitting there, you've submitted for the Rule of Conduct roll... application... on that... reduce Members' petrol costs, reduce living costs, reduce bonuses and so on, so to speak, state resources as if they don't swipe... but purely non-popular, isn't it? Yeah, but in this bill... You can simply get a second salary in a legal way because you already don’t know who gives it. Let's say we... When we founded our party... We received donations from England from Ireland using PayPal. Well, the State Revenue Service is already not present at PayPal! Let's assume we don't see those donors... This is therefore a normal, supporting proposal for both the 13th and the 13th. The Saeima and 29. The Saeima, everyone else. Of course, there is practice in Europe that a Member can work, get a salary somewhere else. We also have in Latvia the fact that a Member can be a teacher, a Member can be an actor, a doctor, an artist, can receive royalties. Maybe we should try to develop those edges? (Laughter) Thank you very much. Of course, this is not a normal situation for those who have been suspended from their responsibilities... In my opinion, Latvia's biggest disaster - Aivars Lembergs receives about 90 thousand from “Latvia and Ventspils” every year. But this is already another story, and it will already be another bill. Because it's a story about municipal Members. This is the case of Members of the Saeima. Please support this. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U53	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U54	Women need to love, not as a member of the Saeima Group, to whom Member Artus Kaimiņš was so keenly seeking. Why was he trying? Therefore, to get a little extra salary. Because he still has a desire for power more than for love for a woman. But not about it. In essence, the meaning of this proposal does not relate to the issue of preventing conflicts of interest, and this was the subject of very hot discussions within the Legal Commission. And I'll explain. The fact of obtaining remuneration in itself is not in any way related to a conflict of interest. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Ozola: “Ooo!” ) The fact that decisions are taken, the right to take decisions - that is, what can cause a conflict of interest. Not the fact of getting a salary in itself. I will give you an example. Before I was in the trick, Member Artuss Kaimiņš, who said that this was the way (Dep. A. Neighbours: “A Member without me in this Saeima?” ) will be limited to these... any illegal matter. I will give you an example: SIA “Doņu bada”, which is owned by Artuss Kaimiņš and which has received funds from the company Airtech related to Meroni. It's allowed. And it will be allowed to continue. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Interdependence of the Muižniece.) What do I mean? Such limitation shall not in any way prevent members of the Saeima or other public officials from taking up office, owning companies with limited liability or joint stock companies and thus making, for example, small taxpayers of the “dogs Way” Ltd. and receiving money from Meroni. It is permitted by law and this amendment will not prevent it from continuing. The other thing that is important to say. Limiting the ability of Members of the Saeima to operate in various professional associations and organisations and to receive remuneration for their work - that is absurd in nature. Let me explain why. In this way, we actually do not want to work at the Saeima by professionals of our field, for example, the best doctors of Latvia, who are probably some associations, professional associations of doctors, at the forefront, the best of Latvia... workers in any other profession who hold any position in any non-governmental organisation because they are professionals in the sector. Why would they deny it? Just because then will it sound like a conflict of interest? On the contrary! The greater the openness and the greater the opportunities to see where Saeima Members receive any remuneration, the greater the ability to control. The more constraints, the more potential threats, the potential conflict of interest that directly leads to the idea that something illegal is happening. Another important detail. In this particular case, it must be said that treatment of the fact as such... that the Saeima Member receives remuneration... Whether it's Mr. Valaiņš or someone else, it doesn't matter... He's getting something somewhere else. To get money in the sense of the drivers of this proposal is bad. The receipt of money for work is in itself a normal course of action, because work has to be paid. The work shall not be carried out free of charge. And that must be thinking! ( Internouncing call.) Parliament and the law enforcement bodies must monitor whether a person who has received remuneration for his work takes decisions as a member of the Saeima in a conflict of interest... which is in favour of a specific organisation. If a conflict of interest is found, the Saeima Member shall be held liable by law. I'll give you an example of what... Even if such a law is adopted, such an amendment... What can we do in the future? Pure theoretically. This will, of course, never happen, but theoretically possible, such a situation (interdependence.) : two members of the Legal Commission Aldis Gobzems and Juta Strīķe decide and agree with each other that they will become the owners of the law firm “Berezins un Juša” Ltd. and through this SIA will treasure some uncompromising idea of the rule of law, as owners will receive dividends, which will have worked together, say, lawyers of this office in the case of this lobby. Such a theoretical and practical situation is possible. And such a draft law, if directed, does not prohibit such a situation. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “Then we need to propose!” ) At the same time, it represents a much greater risk of conflict of interest. What do I mean? I would like to say that in our country, I think it is wrong to understand that the Saeima cannot do anything other than sitting in the Chamber. On the contrary! So that we get to a situation where there are people sitting in this Chamber who are not laughing when we are looking at large families and so on... but for the best professionals of each sector to sit here so that the best specialists of each sector, the most intelligent people of Latvia, would like to start in the Saeima's wish, so we must allow these people to work in their profession at the same time, because it is easy to check it and get a fee for it. By... Again, for example, doctors, huh? The doctor may be you, but at the same time you may be a Member. Does that change the situation if you are a doctor and you can be a member of the Saeima - can it not be in conflict of interest? A conflict of interest may also arise when deciding on a specific medical sector. Why should such restrictions be imposed in a whole range of sectors? We need Latvian minds to come to Parliament, not people who are probably not able to earn as much money in the private sector as they are sitting in these positions and want to retain the position of the group chairman, so that there is a higher salary than they want, for example, Artuss Kaimins. Therefore, this amendment to the conflict of interest law does not prevent conflict of interest, but is simply an attempt to reduce income for certain people, such as Viktoras Valainis, who receives remuneration from the Latvian Municipal Union. And it is, in principle, a fiction. The other thing. Not the other, but probably the last. The last thing I want to say. This example, from the legislator's point of view, is the question of the fact that the adoption of caustic laws, namely the adoption of laws to apply them to individuals, must not be allowed in Parliament. And I... The law must be adopted not for the purpose of accounting for a particular person, but for the purpose of... that it is part of a common legal framework and that it is systemically logical. We're going the other way. The Chairman of the Legal Commission, Juta Strike, supports the continuation of the adoption of Kazuist laws which the Legal Commission should prevent. The adoption of Kazuist laws leads to very many uncertainties. This leads to complicated legislation. The more complicated the legislation, the more likely it is that there will be different types of fraud and so on. The laws do not need to be goatish. They must be simple, systemically logical, integrated within a common law, as we say. This reduces the chances of action being taken, say, to conflict of interest, to infringement... That's why I... Please do not support this proposal because, first of all, it does not, logically, prohibit other forms of additional remuneration for your work. And secondly, it's a Kazuist approach. The legal commission should not be about directing the bill, so to speak, from the Kazist prism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U55	The name of Member Aldis Blumberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U56	Dear colleagues, I call for support for these amendments because, let us be honest, it is essentially an opportunity for public officials to receive a scholarship. I'm also a lawyer... I cannot work in my profession because I chose the path of a Member. And I see here an opportunity to prevent potential conflicts of interest. In any case, we have all heard that there are different societies... For example, the association “9 May.lv” which receives funding from the Russian Embassy. At present, this law does not prevent Members from receiving opaque funding from abroad. I would therefore ask for support for this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U57	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U58	Colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! Since I have been mentioned, I think it is my duty to climb and speak. That is true: this draft law affects me personally. Me too... For 13 years I have been President of the Latvian Fish Industry Union and received a salary, as well as a candidate for the Saeima elections. I'm still. That is why I will abstain from voting today because it concerns me. I think that, at the time, the legislator has also created such a voting opportunity so that, when it concerns you specifically, you can abstain. However, if the draft law moves forward, I will certainly encourage proposals. And I hope... In fact, it is very good that there is such a proposal. I hope that it will open a debate on what is a conflict of interest, on what is lobbying, on how to open it up, on how to avoid various additional influences on the Saeima... of which - restriction of professions... Because I really don't understand why we have professions in which we can work, and there are professions in which we can't... Let us remember Latvia's beginnings, that is, a free country until 1940! The sittings of the Saeima were often convened at 5: 00 p.m. Why? Because in a day, people worked in their own occupations. And the Saeima's work was perceived as such an honor and duty - to come and decide on laws. They kept in touch with people, with their profession, and knew what they would vote on. And, of course, when a question was dealt with specifically, he used this button to hold back and not to vote. Like in municipalities, for example, when it comes to specific decisions... there are the voting Members. In my opinion, however, we have to talk about the big choice. I am not saying that there is certainly one right thing to do, that all Members of the Saeima can work. There may, of course, be a restriction, a special service, where there is indeed a conflict, but in principle - can a member of the Saeima work or cannot? No one can! We're all here and we're just working here. Another example. In my opinion, we are also simulating a great deal of processes, adopting formal norms that prevent something from happening, but in fact, we imagine that it addresses the issue. For example, a businessman who owns an enterprise and who, before taking the office of his Member, was also the head of that enterprise (the head of the meeting knocks down with a hammer.) , the Chairman of the Board may, after the election, continue to be the owner of that undertaking, but may no longer be the Chairman of the Board, to manage the undertaking. Do we really think that if a person who is still the owner of a company and appoints a trusted person on his own board, let us say, a family member, he does not de facto manage that company anymore? Is he no longer interested in how the company is doing? Do we just have paper that doesn't, but actually he makes decisions? And whatever the society may be, I say... and I think it's interesting that in all societies... it is said that there are no financial resources of clear origin, but I think they are clear enough in many societies. Do you really think that if someone with the goal of lobbying politicians, but now that politician will not take office in that society... Will he not find a way to lobby him and pay for it? So I will abstain, but if the draft law goes further, I very much hope that we will all really talk in a constructive debate about making something more formal, but actually making it public. All of us, each of us, have any interests, don't we? Hi, bad, you can think about it in different ways. The most important thing is that they are public, that we all know this, but especially at a time when we need to make decisions where there may be a conflict of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U59	The name is Sandy Riekstin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U60	Hello, colleagues! Yeah, I mean, I've been planning two years to get into the Saeima and avenge something... I don't know... Mr. Valains. Good argument! If we are talking about what colleagues have already said... Indeed, I can agree that it is difficult to attract the best, the wisest and the most knowledgeable to start in the Saeima elections because of a Member's remuneration, which may not be able to compete with the remuneration of large company managers. That is something I could agree with. But this hybrid, which is now able to receive wages in different societies, is not, in my opinion, the right way. When I work as both a Member and a Head of the Sub-Commission, I cannot imagine at which point I could still work on an association. It is already right now that many things have to be done on holiday. I'm sorry, then maybe let's start by coming to my sub-committee for at least one sitting within two months. We can't even do that, but we want to keep some hybrid. One gentleman just said that he could not work without pay. You could agree. Interesting if you're in Maxim's tragedy... have you received your salary, as if defending the victims, or have you not received it? The city says you got it, but who knows? It's your idea, though, that you shouldn't work like that without pay, shouldn't you? Actually, an interesting fact. Colleagues! I would, however, call... We all understand what it really is about associations. Everyone can find a lot of information in the public space, how different characters have been “accepted” at different societies. And these revenues are cosmic. Therefore, I will call on you, however, to support the decision already taken by the Legal Commission and not to listen to the people who, forgive me, are accomplices, even though they are not. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U61	The name to the Member is Att Zakaitistov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U62	Colleagues! The Saeima has an analytical service, and the political groups have had the opportunity to collect 20 signatures to ask the analytical service to carry out research. Fraction KPV LV together with “Development/Par!” the following document was signed - requested a study on the legal framework for lobbying in Europe and elsewhere in the world. This issue, which we are looking at today, is, in principle, fundamental to the Saeima's prestige. Lobbying in the Saeima is a question with a beard. I was still very far from policy when there was an initiative among entrepreneurs to create a register of lobbyists. Such a register, a register of lobbyists, is absolutely necessary. This is necessary so that we can protect ourselves. Because at the moment we can't meet people in cafes, we can't just go on the street and talk to someone, because people then suspect that something is being pushed behind their backs. Maybe there is, maybe not. But if there were regulation of lobbying... If it was written of a person that he was, let’s say, “the lobbyist No. 68’... If lobbyists had a code of ethics, then it would be very clear in the register... It is understandable to everyone that such and such a person defends such and such interests and tries to make certain changes to such and such laws. It would be a free ticket for us and our reputation! We could go and talk to people again, without fear that someone behind the corner will film us and then begin to make fairy tales about what we are trying and what we are not trying to do. This is the moment when we need to start thinking seriously about this issue. The Saeima's analytical service is currently working on the evaluation of lobbying, they have been given this task by the end of the year, and I hope that we will return to this issue at the beginning of next year and indeed clear this Saeima. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U63	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U64	In the past, we have heard various arguments to allow the societies to receive remuneration. One of the arguments was that if you don't get... if they do not allow them to receive remuneration, they will figure out how to receive it in a different way. So in the very root... We already hear that people who tend to receive a salary in parallel to work in the Saeima are tended to be engraving. This alone shows that attention needs to be paid to these people who will want to receive additional pay through different schemes. Voters will have the opportunity to light up these people more easily, to see them and to vote in the elections accordingly. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa: “Break!” ) The second one I heard was that if you work for free, then you are not the best, because only the best work for a fee gets a salary. Such an argument does not withstand criticism and is a direct insult to many professionals in the sector, whether they are doctors, lawyers, project managers, engineers working in societies without being remunerated, and is trying to make our country better. I've been working for free myself. I believe that in my particular field, I have helped to achieve a lot. And I also know many other people who, working in their fields, being professionals, achieve a lot and make our country better. The third I heard is to be paid for work. If you get a salary, it's a paid job. We work full-time work here in the Saeima, so we get a salary for it. So if we work in the Society and get a salary, it's also a full-time job. It's not a voluntary job... which we understand mainly by the societies. I therefore call on us to ignore the arguments put forward above (Dep. J. Kursīte-Pakule: “Don’t Note!” ) and to vote in favour of the amendment of the law by the Legal Commission and Juta Strike. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U65	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U66	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Listening that this bill is for me... Thank you. This will be the first draft law for me (Dep. Mr Feldmans: “Not the last!” ), so that we will see how it develops further. But if the motivation is really to influence the members of the opposition or, more generally, the Members of the Saeima in some way... if it really concerns me (I wasn't in this committee meeting), then I can tell you that you will be very disappointed, because my conviction and my views will not be changed by one centimetre or by one millimetre. On the contrary, I think it could only strengthen my confidence. Because that means I'm working in the right direction. ( Internouncing call.) With regard to what you said today... This is not the only society I've been working on... several... And I think it's known... a large difference between working in the association and working in the association. There is a lack of understanding of these two parts: what it means to work and what to work. If we're talking about working, then really... If we have opened up this issue, then I think that associations would not be the only thing that should be reviewed; then it would be necessary to review at all where a Member is allowed to work. Personally, I have started the Saeima elections, indicating publicly where I am working, working for what I receive. Voters have appreciated this and expressed their views. That's why I'm here right now. If these rules change, I will respect them, but this will not change my political convictions in any way. What is in conflict of interest... I really clearly join in what has been said today from the tribunal, and I hope that you have also listened to every name that Mr Gobzem has mentioned today. It was very true, because fictitious employment, hidden payments through businesses - this, in my opinion, is the biggest problem. I hope that the Anti-Corruption Office will work much more actively to make these cases... and that it really throws a huge doubt shadow on the Saeima, where lies... fictitiously paid... I, too, have recently observed a very large number of cases where I think that political figures hold fictitious positions. And I will make proposals in this bill. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: Super! ) Let us discuss this further in the Commission. (Applause) Believe me, this has nothing to do with the fisheries, they are representatives of the coalition partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U67	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U68	First of all, I have to say: getting a salary for work is normal, it is normal, not immoral. I think it's immoral to talk about getting paid for a job. In fact, it is the greatest mistake we make. Secondly, in society it has long been believed that the Latvian Parliament has been separated from the nation, from society. Why Dismissed? Because the Latvian Parliament has a series of... not all, of course, but there are a number of people who have not worked at all in their lives, for example, in the private sector, who have no understanding at all of how it is to earn money and pay taxes on it. How can such people decide at all for the benefit of Latvian society if they do not have an understanding of how this system has been built at all? What I want to say is the fact that the restrictions on the Saeima directly lead to a fall in the quality of Parliament's work, not an improvement. This is the example I named with SIA “Doņu bada”, which has allegedly provided advertising services to Meroni... about those companies there... “Ventbunkers” or what's there, I don't remember from my head... So what could the “dog-dog” promote the transit of oil, I'm sorry? Let us be honest! For what the money has been received, it is understandable to all. That's the danger. If we talk about getting money in societies - it is a huge crime, so we say that all societies, in fact, the entire non-governmental sector is a criminal organisation. Then we ban the non-governmental sector! Or maybe... if a job cannot be paid, then we may begin to moralise that teachers are paid or that doctors and nurses are paid for work, especially for overtime, but not to be paid! On the contrary, I think that the more a person works, the more he gets. The same applies to Members. Let's not be the situation now. How is it actually? Members earn money - they set up commissions. More commissions - more crafts. There's a number of advisors... That's how... The function of a member of the group chairman is another premium, but somewhere else... it's gathering that member's voice. It seems to me that this is the wrong way to go; it is not the right way in which a Saeima Member should collect his remuneration, because it is degraded by Parliament. The Saeima Member receives remuneration in his professional activities, in everyday life, wherever he works... And I agree with Digim Schmidt on this: why are you allowed to work as a doctor, but are you not allowed to work as a lawyer, for example? But at the same time you can be a lawyer, owner, and receive dividends. And it's not a crime to get dividends. But it's a crime in the societies to get a salary. And that's the problem! It's such a huge duality. We say that, in order for Members to have no conflict of interest, we in Parliament will simply get something on our own, put something on our own and make money. A much more open, more transparent way would be for a Member to be able to go on a day-to-day basis... prove in his daily life, in his professional activity that he is able to earn money there. I am convinced that we would have much more professionals and specialists in our industries here for the next or upcoming term, and that this would lead to decisions taken by Parliament, the quality of laws, and the quality of work in general. Therefore, we do not need to make the whole sector - the non-governmental sector - criminals! We say that it has some enormous influence on politics, but at the same time we have some non-governmental organisations, such as Delna or the Soros Foundation, whose influence on politics is okay, have been legitimised. Its organisations may influence political decisions, others may not. There is too much duality there and that is why this draft law is not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U69	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U70	Hello, honourable Members! My signature, too, is on this bill, and my reason is very... It's a little different. My observation is simple: these Members, who have associations... they have a very, very low visit to the commissions. They don't visit the commission, they fly, they just sign and run, they don't even come three or four times... And the people pay them money for it -- they have to be in these commissions. (Applause) Unfortunately, this also applies to Viktoras Valaini. I very much await you in my commission so that we can represent the interests of people and work well in the future. Thank you very much. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U71	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U72	Hello, colleagues! I understand that it is time for everyone to take a look at those who work in a society and get a salary. You can, of course, look at this in my declaration by the official. But I want to say that I have about 20 years of experience in different societies - with wages, without them, in international and also Latvian professional organizations. I would like to say that today we are not talking about lobbying, but more about preventing the conflict of interest that could be associated with lobbying. But if we are talking about this draft law, then we need to look at it more widely. There may also be a conflict of interest for one teacher who is a Member who is a professor working in some way at the university, but here in the Saeima he has to make a decision on the allocation of funds. It can be just as well as a doctor who practises to maintain his professional skills. And again, on the Saeima's agenda, looking at the budget, there is a question of allocating a specific amount to a hospital. Then, too, I think there is a conflict of interest. We can continue to talk about athletes, about intellectual work and so on. I think that this really needs to be seen more widely and that Members cannot in any way receive remuneration outside the Saeima. If the doctor wishes to maintain his professional skills while he is a Member, he may do so on a voluntary basis. Very good! People will be able to go and get medical services at a cheaper price. And those who work at the university, like my colleague Judin... Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas may be working... But, well, at least last year's declaration you have income. That's very nice! The university will be able to save money because our respected Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas will give lectures to students free of charge. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Beitnere-Le Galla: “I don’t read lectures!” ) And, in essence, I would like to... What Artus Kaimiņš said. He said: “I have an association.” The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Well yes!” ) Artus, you can't have an association! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “But I have!” ) You have not read the law that is the Society! (Applause) I would say, ‘The Society is a voluntary association set up to achieve a objective laid down in the Statute, which does not have a profit-making character’. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “But I have!” ) But you cannot have an association of persons, you will disappear from that association, and then the association will exist. You've privatised or abducted that you have an association, but you're actually... You don't have any associations, Neighbours! (Applause) The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “I have! Shoot me off! I have it!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U73	The name of Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U74	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I think that we are losing some of the points that I think are important and that I will try to highlight in the discussions that have turned out to be long enough. Responding to the words of those Members who said that this draft law is an action against certain Members... I will support this draft law at first reading and call on you to do so. I would like to emphasise that we are not opposed to other Members, but we are definitely in favour of transparent decision-making in the Latvian legislator so that it would be in the public interest. A very wide-ranging argument was made about duality, but I think it is dubious to put forward in another draft law a proposal to reduce additional expenses for Members, which is absolutely justified, where a conflict of interest is not possible, while, at the same time, trying to strengthen Members' chances of making profits. In this case, we are talking about associations where there can really be a conflict of interest. I think things need to be called in the right words, because if the salary of a particular society is higher than that of a member of the Saeima, then it is simply a paid lobby. And those who said that there might be an appeal to certain persons here or that the bill is written to particular persons... It won't be true. But these Members, who are 13 right now. In the family, there are definitely examples. Because if it is true that we have colleagues working either in the Association of the Great Cities of Latvia or in the foundation of Riga municipality and at the same time are members of the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, then there is a clear possibility of a conflict of interests that will be eliminated with this amendment of the law. But this does not mean that no one will deal with other violations or other possible conflicts. We must remember that, in this case, we are talking about the conflict of interest that may arise when working in specific societies. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U75	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U76	Hello! It's really... probably it will be true if I say that most of the elected Members of the Saeima have increased their income since their election. However, there are also a number of Members for whom they have fallen (Interest: ‘For example?’) ) - when it comes to professionals, including those who have worked in the private sector and have been recognised in their field. But it's not a story. For example, I have come from the private sector to say that. And, of course, I would also like to see that as many people as possible would have gained experience in the private sector before they started to work for society. When I saw lawlessness and corruption in the country years ago, I decided to go in the direction of the politician's career, it was a deliberate choice. I knew the restrictions on politicians. Because these restrictions have been evolutionary already historically. And they are also quite justified today. There are two ways in which Members can work. One way is that they are very well-secured people, such as private operators with high incomes. They convene the Saeima sittings at five o'clock, come and voluntarily, without any remuneration, vote on various draft laws. I don't know if it would be in the interest of Latvian citizens... exactly in the case of Latvia... and whether it is still happening somewhere today as it happened 100 years ago in Latvia. And there's a second way, or another way, in which Latvia now goes as a democratic country with a transparent policy. In particular, a politician, a parliamentaryist is first and foremost a public citizen's trustee, and he receives remuneration from taxpayers' money for the exercise of his mandate, but no longer in any way receives side-by-side revenue. The idea is justified that there should be a view and debate on those activities which are sources of income from which a politician, such as a Member of the Saeima, can still earn income. As I said, many years ago I made my choice and knew where I was going. And maybe I and many others have lost income. I'm conscious not to deceive the public about it... And so no one can accuse me that I was lobbying anything... I even, honestly... In the next declaration by my official - for 2019 - you will not find... I don't have any capital shares anymore; I'm not going to get dividends either. ( FROM a faction: “Did you overwrite your wife? ” ) I have sold my shares. And to be honest, I'm not interested anymore... It is a conscious decision. We are now in a situation in Latvia where politicians need to make such informed decisions for the benefit of society. They have to sacrifice... We must also sacrifice our years of strength (years of strength - I mean precisely this stage, where the private sector could normally see the greatest career growth) and work with full commitment, visiting all the meetings of the Commission and participating in the building of civil society. That is why I will, of course, support and I am also one of the signatories to this draft law. Because it is not correct (and it is mildly said) that, for example, the same Association of the Great Cities of Latvia... Eight cities pay EUR 20 000 each from taxpayers' money to this particular society, making up some budget, most of which is then paid to seven employees. But that is also the taxpayer's money, and this salary is actually equal to that of the Saeima Member! That's a scheme. It's a scheme in people's perceptions. We can already say that it is absolutely legal, nothing has been violated. But it is unfortunately a scheme in people's perceptions, so we have to eliminate it. And, of course, by continuing that we are going to make the parliamentarian completely independent of everything, so that he is the trustee of society as a whole, so that he does not have any personal interests... he, of course, may have some ideological interests, but in order for him to have no property interests... this is a step in that direction, and other steps will probably follow. Now it's a reality! We live in Latvia. We know how Latvia is. Yes, many of them also receive dividends, so I have disposed of my shares so no one can tell me, as in the previous term, that I made a decision for one of my companies and so on. So that we will support this draft law and make it in Parliament without schemes! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U77	Mr Kučinska, will you have enough 11 minutes to debate? Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U78	Dear President, Dear Members, More or less I have been in every term of the Latvian Parliament since 2003 and, of course, it would be extremely happy if such a-and-a-half-hour debate had been on agenda issues that are in a positive direction - on economic development, on education, on other important things. But, of course, you can do that, too... We have these exceptions, which apply both to... at least for the time being there... doctors, educators, creative staff, and for the time being there are also associations. I understand very well that most likely there will be no more associations. What, though, is most sad about these years? Not that there is a known doctor who, during his spare time, when he is not in Parliament, drives to treat people, or a teacher who shares his knowledge with students. In the previous parliamentary term, the Member was the Chairman of the Latvian Pensioners Federation, and no one really thought that he could be abhorred, avenge and correct the President of the Latvian Pensioners Federation as a bad person, because he is in the society, he receives a salary for it. I heard that the main and most important reason... because it's not revenge, of course... you have not already avengeed anyone, you travel Latvia as if in the legal environment. But, above all, it is such a bad lobby, because in fact, all Members of Parliament want or do not want to have any interest. They're lobbyists... And if someone claims he's completely... All, all, all the sectors... then we come to what is most terrible in all my experience - it's hypocrisy, it's lying, it's arrogance. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “Do not value yourself!” ) And the fact of hiding behind his mask (Dep. Feldman: “What happened to the disclosure of state secrets?” ) and comes with a proposal without being in any public organisation... comes with a proposal that clearly shows that this proposal exceeds five times the intelligence of the applicant... But at the same time he is (Noise in the hall. Thank you very much. ... And he says he's made it up! That's her! In that case, I think it is better if these doctors, who can work, defend themselves (Interface: “It’s about Valaini?” ), medical interests. Because such a local government representative does not hide the story that he defends and represents local governments, education... represent and lobby as far as it is possible, your... not hiding behind your mask. And let's wait when... I bet that such wise proposals for second and third reading will come... It will be clear there that the person has not presented it. So I think what Mr Zakatistov said is noteworthy... the need to analyse in general all the experience with this issue. And the Law of Lobby, the Register of Lobbyes... If everyone tells us what he really represents, it's five times more important than society. Five times. Feldman: “Why didn’t the ZZS present it? What has prevented you from doing this?” )... against society! We were expecting you, of course... Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U79	The name of Member Juta Stricky.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U80	I think it was very interesting to watch and listen to who was here most concerned about this amendment to the law. Is Mrs Stepanenko so concerned about this amendment because of her great debt, which is not enough to pay the Member's salary? Is Mr Gobzem concerned that he will not be allowed to devote his spare time to more valuable activities than the work of a Member? Is the desire to devote himself to the work of a Member so wasted that the ban on receiving a second salary in the Society will make him throw a fur on the other side and now to lobby the members of the ZZS and SASKA generously paid? ( Interface: Do not exaggerate!) ) Mr. Schmidt! I understand, you're very, very painful. Your defenders would also like to receive a Member's salary of more than 40,000 per year in your place. Please, please, Mr. Gobzem, do not be sorry to look at a lost lawyer's acidic, insane face! (Laughter) Mr. Valaiņš, you really, really, very much like what you are doing. So beautiful, so rich... and so unprofessionally to hide the interests of your lobbyists and true financiers! You and Mr. Schmidt... should unite its societies. Perhaps you could earn more than 33,000 a year in such an association. And how do you imagine this society could be called? Well, for example, ‘Crabby Municipality’ or ‘City Crabim’. I call for courage and indeed for every effort to be made to honour the promise to work for the people, not to try to find schemes to gain personal benefits. Remember the oath we made when we took office! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U81	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U82	Dear colleagues, First of all, I would like to offer my sincere apologies to Mr. You're really not a signatory, but... Really, please excuse me. You are so full with some of your colleagues that when I read them, I saw yours too. Excuse me! But Mrs Strike, I would like to invite you to learn how to read the declarations of the public officials more properly. Because if you now try personally to bit me and offend what I have written in my declaration, you probably also didn't see that my debts are well, much smaller than the part where I am a creditor. So Mrs. Strike probably doesn't know in a way either mathematics or reading skills need to be improved. But if we are talking about associations, colleagues, this is the day on which you have declared the non-governmental sector completely outside the law. It is so terrible if one of the Members is working in the Society and (Dep. Feldman: “Do it! But for nothing!” ) is paid for it! It is so terrible if one of the Members is lobbying the interests of society - a concentrated society - in the Saeima! Colleagues, we really don't need to be hypocritical. I call for no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U83	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? The Commission is asking for support at first reading. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Public Officials”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 80, for - 4, for - 2. (Applause) The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U84	The deadline for submitting proposals is 30 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U85	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 30 May this year. Please call me! Please register the Members! Time for notifications. Name of Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U86	Dear colleagues, Today we celebrate Europe Day. 9 May is Europe Day. We will have an event outside, next to the Saeima House, in the yard, in the tent. I call you all to join. We will celebrate Europe Day together with young people from Naukšens and Riga. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U87	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U88	Dear colleagues, Just pay attention! Tomorrow is the Baltic Assembly basketball tournament in Jelgava, Mātera iela 44A, at 15.00. Basketball team will be, and fans are welcome to join!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U89	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U90	Good afternoon! I informed you that, after the Saeima sitting - not during this break, but after the Saeima sitting - we would set up, within five minutes, parliamentary groups to facilitate cooperation with the Thai Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U91	Name to a member of the Secretary of the Saeima. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U92	Not registered: Valery Agešins, Sergey Dolgopolovs, Rihards Kols, Regina Ločmele-Lunova, Igors Pimenovs, Ivars Puga, Lubova Švecova, Inese Voika and Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U93	Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U94	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber! We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - draft law “On the termination of the status of non-citizen for children”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U95	Good afternoon! See Draft Law No. 274/Lp13 initiated by the President of Latvia Raimonds Vējonis – “On the termination of the status of non-citizen for children”. During the meeting of the Commission Members heard Janis Plepa, the Adviser to the Presidential Chancellery, Juris Jansons, the Ombudsman, the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Zand Kalniņa-Lukaševics, Inu Vorpa, the Head of the Legal Department of the Ministry of the Interior and the Department of Citizenship and Migration Affairs, Dina Meister, the Head of the Saeima's Legal Bureau, as well as Janis Tomela, the Chairman of the Board of the Homeland Society. On the facts. Data from the Citizenship and Migration Administration: 74 new-born children were registered as non-citizens in 2014, 77 children in 2015, 47 children in 2016, 51 children in 2017, and 33 children in 2018, last year. At the meeting of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, Members voted in favour of - seven votes, against - two votes; no one abstained. He decided to support the review of the draft law “On the termination of the status of non-citizen for children” at the first reading of the Saeima. The draft law was also examined by the Commission for Citizenship, Migration and Public Alignity as the co-responsible Commission, and the vote on the draft law “On Distinguishing the status of non-citizen for Children” was as follows: for - eight votes, against - four votes, abstained - one vote. The co-responsible commission also expressed conceptual support for its progress towards consideration at the first reading of the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, I call for support for the draft law on the cessation of the status of non-citizen for children at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U96	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U97	First of all, I would like to thank the President of Latvia for this legislative initiative, but I believe that this initiative is not enough and needs to be expanded, in a much broader format. This issue is related to a long-established method used in Latvian policy - to sow fear. 1.9 million are feared by a small part of society - that it would be very dangerous for Latvian society. There are several arguments here. I will start by saying what proposals I will make, and then I will also give you the reasoning why. I will submit a proposal to grant citizenship to all those born in the Republic of Latvia since 1990 (that is 10 028 people). I will also submit a proposal to grant citizenship to all those who have completed their studies in the Latvian language after 1990. In this way, historical injustice would even be partly corrected. And now I will explain why I will submit such proposals and why they are possible. First. From a legal technical point of view, it is possible to supplement not only the text of the law itself, but also to make amendments to the title of the law and therefore to extend this issue not only to those people who are children at the moment, but also to those children who were born in 1990 and those who have studied in the Latvian flow study institution. Secondly. My proposal relates to the fact that those who oppose this idea actually claim that it is a danger to the Republic of Latvia. I would like to emphasise that 10 028 people born after 1990 cannot be dangerous to 1.9 million societies. This hazard is objectively impossible. If 1.9 million people fear from 10 000 people born in Latvia, they cannot be called brave or capable of defending the interests of the Republic of Latvia. Another argument I have to make in this regard concerns the termination of the status of a non-citizen. This issue plays an important role in the process of consolidating society. The status of a non-citizen is in itself a status that divides Latvian society. With a divided society of Latvia, we promote the dangers, we promote insecurity and unloyalty towards the state of Latvia. People who have experienced this historical injustice and who have not been granted citizenship because of their fault, namely, they have been born in Latvia but have not been granted citizenship after the restoration of national independence... this historic injustice must not be corrected by these people themselves, but must be done by the state. This must be done by the country to put an end to the debate on this issue in many, many years' time. Another theme that is essential. Once again it will be threatened with fear of Latvia's future geopolitical situation, Latvian language and so on. Ten thousand children born in Latvia since 1990 are not objectively able to elect a political party in the Saeima, so they can objectively in no way influence any political process. It is not enough if they fear that they will be political competitors for a national-spoken party. Another claim is that it could be a threat to the Latvian language. Then we have to say two things. The first and most important theme. Latvian is not threatened by anything in Latvia. It is impossible to give an example that someone in Latvia would have forgotten to speak and write in Latvian. Latvian language disappears only in one other case. This is emigration. This happens when people in Latvia are unable to pull their ends and are forced to emigrate, put their roots in foreign countries - England, Germany, America or any other country. Children born in England and starting to go to kindergarten and school... as we already know from practice, there is one part of Latvian-born children who no longer speak Latvian. Emigration is a risk, not people living in Latvia. In this context, one further argument is that in Latvia most people, especially young people, all as one not only understand, not only speak, but also complete educational institutions in Latvian. It is the myth that in Latvia people who are not Latvian would not understand Latvian and would not speak Latvian! Therefore, with regard to this draft law, I will also submit a proposal that a person who has completed a school in Latvian... So he has passed exams in Latvian... What else should he prove in order to obtain Latvian citizenship if he has been able to pass exams at Latvian school in Latvian?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I think that is a sufficient argument, and such a dual procedure for acquiring citizenship is absolutely wrong. I think the time has come today to stop fearing. The original proposal presented by the President of Latvia concerns a very small number of non-citizens' children. These are ten people every year. I understand that one coalition group is talking about a potential proposal to extend the scope to two thousand people from the age of 15. But basically, at the overall cost of the country 2 thousand or 10 thousand... We're... it's like the employment issues that have been discussed before, about students' opportunities to work not for 20 hours, but for 40 hours... There were about five thousand people who had a big discussion. In this case, there are about 10,000 people. I call not only on the Latvian Parliament, but also on Latvian society not to be afraid of these people who were born in Latvia. They're also paying taxes here. They live here as well. And if you want them to be loyal to Latvia, then Latvia must be presented with its hand in return. It would be a huge gesture - a huge gesture! - towards the Latvian society's unification process. It would be a gesture to prevent our political opponents outside the country from manipulating this issue... that we're oppressing someone, we're abyssing someone and so on. This would promote not only democracy in Latvia, but also our idea... that we make decisions, not fearing, but that we make decisions, being courageous, that we have confidence and that we understand that neither 100, 1000, nor 10,000 people are a threat to us and will never be able to threaten Latvia, nor Latvia's unity, nor Latvianism, and so on. Another argument. Even if any of these people who would acquire citizenship in this way and who were born after 1990 were to prove to be illogical to the state, it is possible to incorporate a mechanism to take away this citizenship into the state's unloyalty. Such mechanisms of protection are also possible. In any case, I ask my colleagues... I understand that there will also be an opposite view... Please do not be afraid of Latvian society. I understand that this has been a political situation and, in fact, all the political setting on which some parties have existed, always fearing that Russians are coming... that they're coming and coming... for 28 years... And so on... Believe me, Russians also love Latvia, Russians also want to be part of our country, just like other people who were born in Latvia! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (A. Kirštein’s intermediate call.) They are not enemies of our country. They also want our country to be one of the world's richest countries, and they want to be with us, to govern our country. And more. If we look at statistics, then we see that the proportion of non-citizens in Russians is only about 65 percent, the rest of them are different nationalities, different nationalities. Let us not discriminate against our children! If you, the National Association, fight for the interests of Latvia, do not be afraid of Latvian society by the Russians coming, but please do everything to prevent people from moving from Latvian society! Support demographic issues, support questions from the opposition, support for large families! Support questions about the abolition of property tax, so that people do not get out of their homes and do not have to go to emigrate. Because, the National Association, Latvianism disappears only if people are outside the borders of the country. In Latvia, people who have a self-esteem, who read books that study at school in Raini or Imants Ziedonis, or Latvian history, are unable to lose either Latvian or Latvian. So don't be afraid of the Saeima troop this time and support it. I really call on you - it will be in the interests of our whole country, it will be a fantastic gesture towards the people who belong to our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U98	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U99	Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I think the moment has come (perhaps late in time, but, as the parion says, better late than never) for Latvian society, institutions, legislator to make a decision that shows the state maturity in our democratic experience. And stop the Soviets... and our own infirmities (29 years) Continuation of the consequences - the sharing of people on the issue of citizenship by language. It is not acceptable that 29 years after the restoration of Latvia's independence, children of non-citizens are still born in our country. Their parents live here, work, their children are Latvian citizens. The status of a non-citizen, however, I would like to say that it was a transitional solution, it must not be produced indefinitely, because it demonstrates the inability of a country to decide on essential issues and the inability of society to create confidence that a country can offer solutions geared towards its development. The state is coming in with the power... give the young generation, who cannot be responsible for history, the opportunity to be Latvian citizens, Latvian patriots... at least at birth. Just like every child - a citizen of Latvia. You are not asking citizens whether or not their children will choose citizenship. In fact, the most important thing that a country can give when a child is born is the credit of trust that this person, who was born in Latvia when he received Latvian citizenship, will grow into his own, will want and will be able to make a personal contribution to Latvia. Only in this way will we build a state attitude and concern for our citizens, because each of them is important to us. Let us respect families who have chosen to live in Latvia instead of having gone to countries where the child may be granted citizenship automatically according to the place of birth, thus allowing to immediately obtain guaranteed national protection, benefits in the future, welfare, respect, guaranteed human rights and opportunities to acquire internationally appreciated education. Since the restoration of independence, we are constantly allowing a revitalisation - political archaism, which is a national divider that divides the population. Every country (and coalition should think about it in other matters too, affecting the conditions previously adopted in education, which are all very proud and proud of)... and yet each country must take care of its own citizens, both in terms of prosperity and even more in terms of well-being. People who feel that they will be proud of their country will be able to take care of their own interests, those of their relatives, and those of other people. Is that not your aim, the respected coalition? Now we are spending a lot of time discussing perhaps not so important issues for the development of the country, but, talking about the budget, no words... It is unlikely that prosperity can be built and achieved in a country where there is internal hatred, distrust, and the division of people between strangers and their own. The previous discussion, especially the last speaker's text, showed that we will also start to divide 100 people here into the right and wrong, valid and invalid. Theme is now elsewhere, not here. It is unlikely that prosperity can be built and achieved in a country in which the inner community, as I said, is hostile. Politically, the division of people is being cultivated, maintaining the superiority of one nation over another. Also in the 21st century. Also in Latvia. Both historically and now... We demand that other countries treat the emigrated people of our country well, but do not want to take care of people living in Latvia. And almost 30 years after our independence has been restored, our work and our decisions do not show maturity (including political maturity), the courage to make generous decisions, those that would, in general, create equal treatment for the state and trust in its citizens. I'll also talk again about a bunch of things that many use as an argument. Let's leave a bunch, giving the opportunity to refuse instead of asking... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Perhaps, however, we will be able to change our approach and we will be surprised by the results. Let us not avenge ourselves, for revenge and humiliating attitude as a bullerang turn to us. To you. These people, the parents of potential non-citizens, live alongside us, and must find human dignity and the values of the 21st century, yes, also a way of living together, working together and seeking dialogue more successfully. How could a patriotically healthy state and citizen be better off at birth? The strength of Latvia is not in the rocks, isolation behind high walls, but a strong sense of identity, which will not be broken... did not break the violations of the past and their vaults and will not break the decision to grant citizenship to children born in Latvia. Children often know better than adults find contact points because they do not yet have the stigma of history. Let them feel the favor of the State! Believe me, they're gradually... as they grow, they will analyse history in a different way. Let us not condemn before there is something to condemn! I call for support for the bill. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U100	Name to Member Edvin Schnorem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U101	Hello, dear colleagues! There's a lot of lawyers here among us, so I'd like to ask you to fix it if I'm wrong. The laws of Latvia already state that everyone - absolutely everyone! - Non-citizens' children can acquire citizenship of Latvia, unless the children themselves or their parents, if little children, want it. This draft law applies only to the small part of non-citizens who have made it clear that they do not want Latvian citizenship for themselves or their children. It would therefore be more legally correct to refer to this draft law as follows: ‘On the termination of the status of non-citizen to children against the will of their parents’. This would be more legally correct, as only this category is concerned. For those who specifically object when they are asked: “Do you want to... ?” They argue, “No, we don’t want to!” So... Because everyone else can and is a citizen of Latvia. I believe that power or, as in this case, legislation to impose nationality on someone against his will is absolutely wrong. I do not think that such voluntarily state action will increase loyalty in the families of these particular non-citizens. Nor do I think that this step in any way will deal with the consequences of occupation. On the contrary! Listening to these speeches, it only seems that this is the first step to put the door on the leg and then open the door. And in the end... Well, it's about this category now - about children who since 1990... and which are therefore 29 years old now, and will obviously be talking about granting citizenship to all other non-citizens of Latvia. This would, of course, give the second breath to each other's political power in this Saeima. Of course, this would give them the opportunity to fight for things that they have not managed to get through to the current citizens' composition. These are therefore language matters and, I accept, NATO membership, because the non-citizens do not like NATO membership - we know that. And that gives the opportunity to review all these issues. Mr Gobzem said that Latvian is not threatened. I would like to remind you that very recently, quite recently, in 2012, there was a referendum, where 270 thousand Latvian citizens voted against the Latvian language as the only national language. I think that we can safely add non-citizens who do not acquire Latvian citizenship in principle... apparently you don't want to speak Latvian, or... I'm in no way refusing to pass this exam... Add, and then it's about to be half a million. To achieve this, it is necessary to start with a small, first step. I think this is the first step in creating a precedent. But it is a very dangerous precedent that can lead to very bad consequences for the future. I therefore call for this draft law to be rejected. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U102	The name of Member Dace Bluke.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U103	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! We are talking about children who will be born in Latvia and their citizenship... who can't decide anything yet and decide. There are so many speculations and lies in the public environment about what this bill is about! I have heard arguments that, with the adoption of these amendments, the children of Ukrainian migrant workers will automatically receive Latvian citizenship. No, that won't be the case. Ukrainian migrant workers are citizens of Ukraine and their children will not be subject to this law. I have heard that this law will allow the children of Indian and Pakistani students, if they are born here, to receive citizenship of Latvia. No, that won't be the case. Indian students continue to be Indian citizens and Pakistani nationals. Their children, if they are born here, will not be subject to this law. I have also heard such an argument that Latvian children born in London are not automatically granted British citizenship. Yes, they are not granted because their parents have Latvian citizenship. And their children will also have Latvian citizenship. Equalising the children of non-citizens with the children of immigrants and stateless people - this is not only demagogia, but also the dissemination of false news in the style of our eastern neighbours. The law will not change anything with regard to current immigration. It will apply only to those people already belonging to Latvia. Most of these children live in Latvia already in the third generation, and most often they do not have another country called their own home. This will apply to those children of Latvia for whom passports are issued by our country; they are non-citizens' passports. They do not have the nationality of other countries. Last year 33 such children were born. In addition, the number is decreasing each year. The status of non-citizen in Latvia was introduced as a temporary solution after the collapse of the USSR for those Latvian citizens who did not have citizenship of Latvia or any other country. And I guess it's true for those who say there's nothing more stable than temporary solutions. Therefore, I invite you to support this draft law so that, 27 years after the collapse of the USSR, we can no longer extend the Institute of Non-Citizenship to children born in Latvia. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U104	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U105	Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that, two weeks ago, in the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Public Solidarity, we held a legislative debate, we had a debate, and a majority of the Commission supported its adoption. I would like to draw your attention to certain aspects, some important issues. I understand that opinions can vary and there are arguments for and against. First of all, I would like to agree with those who claim that the registration of non-citizens' children is not difficult. We really have a liberal approach. I think that everyone, a non-citizen, has no difficulty registering their children as citizens. And they do it, they choose. But at the same time, we can see that there are parents (not many) who do otherwise, thinking about their interests, thinking about how they would be more comfortable. I remember - in our commission meeting, there was an opinion to which I join, namely: if parents act contrary to the best interests of the child, should we ignore it indifferently? Do we, however, have a duty to take action to ensure that the best interests of the child are respected? At one of the committee meetings, we also discussed the behaviour of non-citizens in relation to naturalisation, and we were told by researchers at that time what are the reasons why non-citizens do not want to register their children as citizens and do not want to naturalize themselves. Now I'm just telling you what... How responsible the non-citizens themselves (this is a study, it's not just some fantasy!) Some are waiting for relief, others are easier to travel to Russia, others can't travel... they fear that they will not be able to pass the exams. Some replied that they had no time to deal with it. This in principle does not mean anything other than that they already have a level of comfort and they have no problem with this status. Yes, there was also the answer that he did not want. Some believe that they are automatically entitled to citizenship. They are waiting for this to happen. The situation is different. But it should be borne in mind that we are now talking about children. And it was quite rightly pointed out today from this troupe - and other colleagues said earlier - that this status, the status of a non-citizen, was only meant for a short time, only as a temporary status. I'd like you to read one rule from the so-called Non-citizens' law... the law on non-citizenship, namely the law on the status of citizens of the former USSR who do not have the nationality of Latvia or of another country. At the very beginning of Article 1, first paragraph, it is written who the non-citizens are. ‘ Non-citizens are those citizens of the former USSR who reside in the Republic of Latvia, as well as those who are temporarily absent, and their children...’. Kids! Not written - “baby children”. Also, grandchildren are not mentioned. Thus, the first paragraph of Article 1 makes it clear that the law applies to citizens of the former USSR and their children. But it is clear that when grandchildren appeared, the problem had to be solved. And Article 8 of the law, entitled ‘Final Provisions’, was added to the law, and it stated that the children of the persons referred to in Article 1 should also be subject to this status. So we solved the problem - grandchildren can also get a status. But seven years later, seven and eight will already have grandchildren, and then another verse 9 will have to be written (and thus the law will have to be supplemented) where it will have to be stated that this status will also be guaranteed for grandchildren. But when I think about this status, I see a risk. Some seem: yes, it would be risky if they all became citizens. Yes, but we are not talking now about granting automatic citizenship. I see a risk that there are people who... On the one hand, when we speak internationally, we are telling you that they are equal to citizens, they have all the rights except the right to vote and... Well, maybe they can't work in some professions either. But internationally, we stress that human rights are protected. And by the way, it's true. If we look at the results of that survey, we see that most of them are in the comfort zone. Well, maybe there is discomfort with their name, but if it's about rights, about opportunities, they're not limited. But what is the question? In fact, these people are not Latvian citizens, however, and during our committee meeting, we expressed the view that this status should be reviewed, that they should become permanent residents, for example, as stateless people. And here I see a big risk. With such negotiations, we can build... In fact, if it were to be accepted, there could be a situation where these people could really become citizens of another country; they would live here but be citizens of another country. Because there is a country that I think will take advantage of this opportunity and give them automatic citizenship. We don't need it! If we envisaged this status as temporary, then I think we should think about ending the status in question. This draft law enables this status to be terminated. I mean, what does this draft law mean? That children born in 2020 will no longer be non-citizens. Some fear, some feel that this can pose risks. But, colleagues, it should be borne in mind that those born in 2020 will have the right to vote in 2038, i.e. 50 years after the restoration of independence. We are concerned that they may be disloyal. I very much hope that our education reform will be effective, that the situation will really change, and that we will solve the problems that we still have with education. Do we allow the child to learn about Latvia, the history of Latvia and he/she will not be able to learn about Latvia when studying in Latvian? I think there is no reason for this assumption. We need to work for people to become patriots in Latvia, but to ensure this, we should not separate them; we should say that they are ours, that they are important to us, and even if parents think otherwise, we must guarantee children that they will have citizenship. By the way, we do not completely deprive parents of the opportunity to avoid, if you can say so, the citizenship of Latvia. If parents can provide their children with citizenship of another country, let them tell them. But we should not restore the status of non-citizen. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U106	Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U107	Colleagues! Today we celebrate Europe Day, but a few days ago, on 4 May, we celebrated the day of restoration of Latvia's national independence. It is a day when 29 years ago the Latvian people expressed their will not to recognise the Soviet occupation and restore Latvia's independence. The status of a non-citizen was created, as you know very well, for those USSR citizens who at that time lived in the territory of Latvia and who did not have the right to citizenship of the restored Republic of Latvia. 29 years have passed. Twenty-nine years is a long transition period, but too long for interim solutions. Those children who are born today, even if they are born in non-citizen families, are our children, Latvia, because families have a stable connection with Latvia. These children have not yet made any decisions in their lives that would allow us to believe that they are not loyal to Latvia and that they do not have to be Latvian citizens. As far as the will of the parents is concerned... Yes, this is an interesting question. Mr Schnores mentioned that we wanted to make these children a Latvian citizen against the will of the parents. Sadly, however, parents do not always act in the best interests of their children in other situations. I would like to mention the anti-vaccination movement, which is unfortunately quite strong in the world at the moment, when parents decide not to vaccinate their children, because they think it will be better for them. Or for ideological reasons. ( Interface: “It’s not the same! ” ) Unfortunately, science does not prove it to be better. On the contrary. It proves that this is very bad, and for both children and for us all, as society, is at risk of bad consequences. Parents who decide not to apply for their children as Latvian citizens, not to apply for their status as a citizen of another country, do not act contrary to the best interests of these children. International law indicates that when parents act contrary to the best interests of their children, we must defend the best interests of their children, not the will of their parents. I therefore call on us today, Europe Day, to take advantage of the historic opportunity to end the granting of non-citizen status to newborns in Latvia, so that these people become citizens for Latvia and for Europe too.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U108	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U109	Colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! If I had to choose only one thing for which I would like to thank the current President of Latvia during his term of office, then it would be a re-direction of this draft law. He did it in the previous Saeima, where it was rejected. Now we're looking again. I think this is more symbolic, very, very late - 28 years late! - steps and promises. Partial - very partial! - correction of the error committed 28 years ago. In fact, it should probably be said that it is not a mistake, but a certain treason. Symbolic. What am I talking about? At the time of the barricades, I was less than 16 years old. My friends and I were also on the barricades. Our item, if it could be said, was at Dzirnavu Street at the telegraph, where now Bergs Bazaar. We guys, of course, were sitting at a fire and listening to adults' talk about freedom, about democracy, about Latvian times, about Soviet crimes, about our future, about dreams... We have also listened to talks about whether or not we can win democrats in Russia, and also about what will happen to us if this fight is lost. I don't know... Maybe it was a special place in Riga, I can't really say that about others. Maybe it was different. That is, there were very many people of many nationalities on Dzirnavu Street, many of whom we have once called Russian-speaking people. They had all come there. I don't know if they came to defend Karl Ulmanis' authoritarian Latvia, with which we left in the flaw in 1940, but they certainly came there; for democracy, for freedom they were prepared to give the most important thing that man has - their life. To defend what we all fought for. More than that. They were also promised. Promise and fail - this is unfortunately not some kind of innovation in today's policy. Its roots are very long ago. If we are talking about the time of this country, the period of the renewed Republic of Latvia, then it should be remembered that the first great betrayal is the failure of the Latvian People's Front programme. In 1991, the Latvian People's Front went to the elections of the Supreme Council and won, gained absolute supremacy (Dep. Kirstein: “They went in 1990!” ), with a promise... Yeah, I'm sorry, maybe I made a mistake for a year... with the conclusion that the Latvian People's Front stands for the acquisition of citizenship by the permanent residents of Latvia, who declare their desire to acquire Latvian citizenship and clearly link their fate with the state of Latvia. When Boris Yeltzin and the Democrats in Russia won in August and our independence de iure became de facto independence, those gentlemen and ladies who were at the fires on Dzirnavu Street were forgotten. Suddenly it turned out that Jānis Berzins (conditional), who may have sat at the snake bottle for the whole period of barricades and perhaps had not even noticed that in the Republic of Latvia there were barricades... only because his grandmother was born before 1940 and was a citizen, suddenly he was more valuable and necessary for the Latvian state than those people of other nationalities who were on the barricades. Suddenly, all Czech agents and KGB staff... It was enough that their grandmother had been born in Latvia before 1940. All of them were suddenly better. Not only could they get citizenship; as we know today, they were rectors, they were even Primers. The three-star Orders are served to the whole pile. That's the crazy thing... I would like to remind you that the first naturalisation rules were adopted in 1995, four years later. No matter how great a patriot would be, no matter how well he knew the Latvian language, the Latvian anthem, the Constitution and history, he had no theoretical opportunity to demonstrate his loyalty and become a citizen of the Republic of Latvia by 1995. More! The first naturalization rules provided for the principle of naturalization windows, which divided non-citizens into groups by age: the first were children born in Latvia up to a certain age, then - the next, then - the next. I thought it was so sad that those men who were at that fire were theoretically able! - to acquire citizenship of Latvia and, as they say, to swear trust in Latvia appeared in 1998. Seven years later. What else do I want to say in conclusion? For which I voted today... I voted symbolicly. I support, of course, what is written directly in the bill that children are automatically citizens. If parents or they themselves want to decide differently, they have the right to do so, but no one needs to pray here. My vote is symbolic. I'll be back on Dzirnavu Street again. There was such an episode - the message came that OMON would attack the telegraph, the item. At the end of both streets, where agricultural machinery was standing, it was hard at that point, and it was clear that something would happen immediately. It is clear that we guys were afraid, but then one of the Russian-speaking people came to us and said: “OK, guys, your time here is over, there’s serious things going on. Here must remain adult men, go home.” He brought us to one of the buildings, where there was a vertical ladder of firefighters, and he said: “When you start, get up, go over the roof to the other side. There's the same ladder down there. Go home. You will need much more for Latvia after this battle in the future.” We're lucky because the attack didn't happen. Either it was a false message, as we now say, or it was cancelled, I don't know. We're lucky because we didn't have to stay or fight. And in a way, today's vote is to thank him and as some apologies, that he also had the theoretical opportunity to become a citizen of Latvia, to swear trust in the country only after seven years. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U110	The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U111	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Today is really a symbolic day when we look at this draft law tabled by the President at first reading. Today, we are celebrating the European Day throughout Europe and also in Latvia. We celebrate freedom, we celebrate democracy, we celebrate a united society. And in this context, it is essential to understand that a united state, a united society, a united nation is a safe state. Although this draft law has several edges, I think this is a very important edge that this draft law gives us in the future - a united society and a secure state. Looking at how many different threats we now face both here in Latvia and in Europe as a whole... hybrid hazard, various types of other hazards... We need to think about how complexes strengthen the security of our country. We have invested a long time in strengthening our military defence capabilities, we are working to have comprehensive national defence in Latvia, we are fighting for our public media space to be secure, transparent and as it should be in a democratic state. Another important moment for us to fight and join is a united society, and this draft law, looking ahead, is what it is giving us. Therefore, colleagues, I call for support for this draft law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U112	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U113	Dear colleagues, All Gentiles and all non-citizens are not the same. Today there is definitely a new non-citizen family, who, in the face of George's tapes, goes to Pārdaugava, on the side of the torture stake to mark the repeated occupation of Latvia. At the moment when they fall, they will be deceived if they see a portrait of Stalin among the pictures, they will express regret that during the occupation Stalin did not kill enough Latvians, did not send enough Latvians to Siberia. We can see such people in the comments of the Internet, such people often cover with their “welcome” texts for Latvian citizens. ( From a political group, ‘ Can you talk about the subject? ’) ) State Security Service or State Police, as in which case, initiate investigations... The fact that we would vote today for automatic citizenship of non-citizens' children would not make this family loyal to Latvia, which I mentioned. They are loyal to a completely different country. We must recognise this fact. We can pretend to be able to integrate these people with beautiful integration programmes, but these are lies, deception and lies. Such families will never be integrated into Latvian society. They openly say that they will fight against the state of Latvia with weapons in their hands if this situation arises. And today there are members of the Saeima, who are ready to implement the political organisations “On Human Rights in Unitary Latvia”... Later, it was also one of the primary points of the programme of the Social Democratic Party "Conciliation" and other pro-Russian satellite parties: automatically granting citizenship to non-citizens. Yes, some will say that this is only about the children of non-citizens born in Latvia, and also about those born after 1 January 2020. That's it. But we can already be sure that at second reading... There will be Members who will submit a proposal to extend this provision to all under the age of 18. Mr Gobzems even proposes to extend even further - to all who are about 30 years old, so that these people are automatically granted Latvian citizenship. I believe that this is an absolutely harmful and irresponsible act on the part of the President of Latvia Vējonis. It's absolutely harmful! It is the most harmful one proposed by the President of Latvia at all in the Saeima. Not because there is this initiative about children born in 2020, but because in fact this is the opening of the Citizenship Law to automatically grant citizenship to those who do not want to be connected with the Republic of Latvia, those who feel disliked about it. Those people will now automatically be cast out of citizenship. If the Saeima wants to act responsibly, then I think there are two options. One option is to reject this draft law. The second option is to launch a very wide-ranging debate on how, in the foreseeable future, within three or five years, the Institute of Non-Citizens could be terminated, but certainly the moment of its termination should not be an automatic issue of Latvian citizenship to all those who did not wish to naturalize or apply to become Latvian citizens. At the moment, we risk putting forward various proposals at second reading, led by emotions and utopian dreams, in the hands of Members... the majority of Members will either reject or support. That is not the right thing to do. It is not responsible for our country. We already have this painful experience - in 2012, 270 thousand Latvian citizens, of whom the vast majority are those who acquired citizenship by naturalisation, voted against the Latvian language as the only national language. Whether we want to further develop this group of people - that is the fundamental issue that is the resolution of the present day. Not for those children who will gain citizenship in 2020. Indeed, this vote is in favour of actually opening up the Citizenship Law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U114	Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U115	Honourable Members! The Latvian Citizenship Law is one of the most liberal citizenship laws in the European Union and Europe. We must therefore treat citizenship as a value. This draft law, driven by the President, is not of legal quality and does not define citizenship as a value. In the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity, hearing the opinion of the Board on Citizenship and Migration Affairs on the implementation of this draft law, if it enters into force as a law, in practice, there appeared a number of problems that this draft law does not solve. First, what happens if one parent of a child is a national of another country and the child is automatically entitled to citizenship? How is this issue addressed? At the moment, the draft law says that the parents agree with each other. But if there is already a third-country nationality, on which our Citizenship law determines - we cannot have double citizenship with a third country, how is this conflict resolved? How, then, is the third-country nationality renounced? If we go back to 1990 and give citizenship to even more people, then will we have more of these double citizens? Do we force them, with some mechanism, to give up their dual citizenship? How is this all regulated? The draft law, I think, does not consciously state that they are children of non-citizens born in Latvia. So they could be non-citizens' children living anywhere in the world. How, then, does the State of Latvia know that they are entitled to citizenship? How do these children achieve Latvian citizenship? After how long can this be allowed if Latvian citizenship is not registered immediately by the parent? These are unanswered questions. It was also said from this troupe that citizens of other countries will get citizenship of other countries... and does not affect this amendment to the law... That's not the case. These issues need to be dealt with in a legally correct way. But in this way... The draft law cannot be supported. Citizenship of Latvia is a value.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U116	The name to Member Edvin Schnorem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U117	Mr. Schmidt quoted the LTF program here... that the Latvian People's Front promised citizenship in 1990... Maybe not everyone heard what Mr. Schmits quoted, I will once again say the same thing: “The LTF stands for the fact that citizenship is acquired by the permanent residents of Latvia, who declare their desire to acquire Latvian citizenship....” And we are talking about it here, too, about the desire to acquire Latvian citizenship. This draft law provides that this desire is not taken into account. Mrs Golubeva mentioned that this is about children born to non-citizens whose families belong to Latvia. But then I have a question: how many years are these non-citizens? They are relatively young people who are now born children. Why are these people non-citizens if they belong to Latvia? They have every right to obtain Latvian citizenship. Why do they not get it if they are and feel that they belong to this country? Next. Mr. Schmit also mentioned the place in Riga, where in 1991 it was possible to see that not only Latvians stood for the independence of Latvia. Of course, observations can vary. I was in barricades, too. But I'd like to talk about a thing that can be quantified when it comes to this subject. A survey on Latvia's independence took place on 3 March 1991. In that 411 thousand voted against the independence of Latvia. The Supreme Council then organised it and called it a survey (not a referendum!) , because of concerns - two thirds of the voters may not vote. And that's according to the laws of those times, the USSR, which maybe... The Supreme Council did not really extend them to Latvia... But in any case, there was a concern that these votes could not be collected, and it was decided on this: better not to be bound by the referendum and there is a poll. And really these voices could not be collected! Two thirds of the voters could not be collected. So we had... We would have liked to see that in 1991 there were not these 400 thousand... And even in March... There was a second survey then on the so-called Treaty of the Union, and there were half a million who voted against Latvia's independence in substance. We would have liked these people to stand up for Latvia, but they didn't. This survey shows this well. That's why I'd like to call... Today is 9 May - Europe Day. But, as we know, 9 May in Latvia for most... Most of these people celebrate something else than Europe. I therefore call for this truly symbolic day not to take a decision that would have a negative impact on Latvia's future.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U118	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U119	Dear President, Honourable Members! I respect dilettants, but not the Latvian Saeima. It is good that there are new Members here, but it is bad that they have heard nothing about the history of Latvia or about the existing Latvian legislation. The first stupidity that has been said here is that during the barricades it has been promised all citizenship... or something like that. Well, it's not Mr. Schmidt's the only one who tells these tricks. Most of this idea was promoted by writer Marina Kostenecka. How could I promise in 1991 that if the Supreme Council adopted the declaration on the restoration of the independence of the Republic of Latvia on 4 May 1990, which provides for the status of non-citizen in a clear and clear manner? It says that all those who will not be citizens are intended to... cultural and social rights. There is no saying: political rights. It's specifically for social... and other rights. Second. Why was it recorded in the constitutional act - the 4 May Declaration - that the peace agreement between Latvia and Russia is still in force, what do you think? Mr. Schmidt, we need to look into what Levit wrote! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr. Schmidt: “I know, Mr. Kirstein!” ) It was recorded because it sets out who is a citizen of Latvia. It is an international agreement, Mr. Schmidt, and it is precisely said there that Russia and Latvia recognise as citizens of Latvia those who lived in Latvia before the beginning of the First World War and their descendants. So, just from my parents... Next. A chance was given... For one year there was a so-called opt-out. Every person living in Russia, like every person living in Latvia, was able to choose one year (anyone!) Whether he wants to be a Russian citizen or a Latvian citizen. And, by the way, it is very interesting: almost 200,000 people who had nothing to do with Latvia arrived in Latvia at the time. These were the rich merchants who already... Cheka’s repression had already begun, so to save her life, the white frogs left. There was this... a pre-war white-headed society. Jewish merchants and so on left. Do you think that, after every occupation, we need to declare a new opt-out and divide this nationality? Next. The so-called windows. Latvia did not invent any windows. For those who do not know, especially those who have problems with Latvian history, I repeat again: these windows were imposed on Latvia by the Human Rights Commissioner of the Council of Europe Max van der Stūl. Why? His reason was that it was necessary to divide into groups: young people, who are not damaged by Soviet propaganda, first gain this citizenship, then those who are already... As if in Soviet schools have been... and so on... Well, they're in a couple of decades... Then we removed these windows. Next. Mr. Smith, it's not 28 years... You might really... You were 16 years of barricades, but in 2007 you were no longer 16... and you should remember one thing that everyone has forgotten... these applicants for citizenship. The mandatory military service was abolished in Latvia in January 2007. Many of those to whom the Saeima gave the opportunity to become Latvian citizens said: “Yes, I will apply, but only when my period of convocation expires and I will reach that age.” Twenty-eight or 30 years, I don't remember the age before which I could call. Such is the patriotism shown by these beneficiaries of citizenship. Next. So the Latvians... It's what they said, yeah... Thank you for saying here... that all 10 thousand next step will be... And then all 270 thousand... or how many votes they voted in a referendum... that Latvian will not be forgotten. That's right. Latvian will not be forgotten, but Latvian will be forgotten... their language has been forgotten by Ukrainians and Latvians have not learned Belarusians, Jews and others who have been resected in these schools. This education has not yet begun to work normally. And the last one. Dear colleagues, It's a waste of money. I will give you two examples (one will be allegorical, the other one historic) in relation to citizenship. After the Bolshevik terror in the 20th century, one of the most famous Russian painters (not his name, but his painting, the bear, you know) lived in Finland. Finland granted him the right to asylum, and thanks for having such good conditions in Finland, he wanted to present one painting to the art museum in Helsinki. Although he was a famous painter in Russia, a good painter, the Finnish Art Council found that the Finnish folk colors were different from those of the Russian people. There's no color like that... But when they were very polite, they couldn't figure out how to give up the painting because the artist had said that he gave the painting for a symbolic, very good fee under the market value. And then the art council wrote him a letter with great thanks, but said that unfortunately they don't have the money at the moment to buy new artworks. Then the artist said: well, he's ready to present the painting for free. That is a fact of history. Then the Finns long wised and said that the painting is so large that they don't have a free space in the museum to park it. Then the artist said that he was ready to paint the painting in smaller sizes. Well, the poor Finns had to say: “We regrettably do not fit your painting as such.” So gifts are not always valued. A second example is Liechtenstein, where citizenship can only be obtained from its parents. After the Second World War, several thousand soldiers of the Russian Liberation Army - ROA - did not fall into American captivity and were not extradited to the Soviet Union, entered the territory of Liechtenstein and received asylum there. They could stay. One German journalist studied how many more than 70 years later... of these thousands of people... the number of their descendants who have received Liechtenstein's citizenship. And what do you think? One. There have been dozens of cases when the Liechtenstein Parliament decided to grant these people citizenship, but the first of them abolished because it is a constitutional monarchy - he did not sign this act and they did not become citizens. Honourable Members! Let us not pour on the Citizenship Law, and let us be as proud of our citizenship as the Finns for their people or the Liechtensteiners for their citizenship! Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U120	Name of Member Dagmara Beitner-Le Galla.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U121	Dear colleagues, Today there were so many good ideas, humanist ideas, that I want to come here and remind you that any idea that is very consistent in practice to the end can destroy myself. From the positions of the new Conservative Party, I would like to remind you that citizenship is not just a passport in the pocket, citizenship is something much, much more. And we really have to be very, very serious at this point in time when we make this decision... supporting the President's second draft law, which will in fact clash with the Citizenship Law and, as has already been mentioned, clash with the agenda on citizenship and emigration. It was said that they were loyal, perhaps even if they had not acquired citizenship. Why are we not discussing this? Why there are no studies commissioned on the group of people who are of fertile age - they are of fertile age! - Who are children born? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Papule intersages.) Why have they not made their own choice? What most often sounds about Latvian society, the situation of Latvia's statehood and those citizens or Latvia's... In fact, not citizens but citizens who have not made their choice (Dep. E. Papule intersages.) - I'm afraid. There were many fears there. I read about the fear of Latvians in theoretical research as well. But I want to say and I am deeply convinced that the Latvian nation has no fears. We're from history... with all our difficult history... We've been the victors of history. It's no fear! We care about Latvia's country and attitude towards Latvia. But I want to send fear to those people in Latvia who have not made their choice, because their portals have the idea that they are afraid to assimilate. There is fear in these fellow people. They have the fear of making their final choice, of leaving the comfort zone, which Mr Judine also spoke about here. I would like to remind you once again that these are parts of this society's fear of not taking a very important decision. They are, of course, also affecting their children. I would like to point out that the state of Latvia has made countless gestures of good will, really numerous! And the fact that the highest officials of our country are pointing out that international institutions are reproving us for a non-citizen... Let us say that the existence of this phenomenon in our country shows only that we listen more to and respect international organisations, but that these senior officials do not want to see the interests of our country first and foremost. That is, I think it's very important to see... Because by adopting this draft law, which is already being proposed for the second time by the President of Latvia, Mr Vējonis, we would actually impose our citizenship. I would remind you once again that a baby born tomorrow will be born in the morning and until 2020 and after that, citizenship can be acquired now. I very much ask the younger Members - I think the younger Members - to be careful and to understand that this is an issue that should not be decided by us here in the Saeima. I think this is an issue that must be referred to a referendum. ( The utterances are: “Ooo! ” ) I would be happy if we were to debate so actively on the issue of how to eradicate poverty in Latvia, rather than on this issue that concerns national security. I call for this draft law not to be adopted. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U122	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U123	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in my opinion, this is a false problem that we are trying to tackle here. That is the main common goal of all of us, as has already been said, is a cohesive society. And a united society is formed if we have something in common. In this case, it is Latvian. Not granting the status of a citizen is what unites us, but it is the Latvian language. We can see that even after obtaining the status of citizen, there is a growing generation of free in Latvia, for which Latvian language is difficult. And this issue needs to be dealt with in a different way. In order to achieve a unified society, we need a common language – the Latvian language. To make it worse for everyone, we can implement it completely not only as now - in schools, but also in kindergartens funded by the state and local government. That is why I am calling for more attention to be paid to this. Let's work together to make education in Latvia available in Latvian, starting from the days of a small child! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U124	The name of Member Ieva Krapāne.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U125	Dear colleagues, We are talking today about children who do not yet exist. I understand, we have national values, there's language, there's everything. These children are not yet there. But when they grow up, go to our schools, kindergartens, get an education, and have great athletes, then we need them and we will call them our own! Then, though, we will run to the commissions and pray for citizenship, and let us say that these are ours! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U126	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U127	Dear colleagues, Here the idea was that we were too respectful of the views of international organisations. Both human rights defenders and all international organisations - all those who exist - have been pointing out for decades that the regulation of our citizenship violates children's rights is not in line with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which is the most popular convention in the world. I am very glad that at last the Latvian officials heard it. Better late than never. But I'm really ashamed of some of the speeches that came out of the podium here. How can you not respect your country to such a degree! Do you really think, colleagues, that the automatic granting of citizenship to over twenty newborns means a threat to the country? ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Do you really think that our country is so weak? I would refer to what was being heard today as an open speech of hatred. Yes, Mr. Dombrava, that's about you! And I would advise you to read Article 78 of our Criminal Law. Of course, I'm not going to write a complaint about you, but... you directly violate the prohibition of hate speech. ( Independence: “Watch the Scriptures! ”) ) Mr. Kirstein! What you said here is typical false news. You use the fact that other Members are much younger than you and cannot check it out, but I remember that situation very well. Remember, we were sitting next to the People's Front II Congress. And you mentioned Van der Stuple. I am sorry, but the position of the Council of Europe's Commissioner for Human Rights did not exist at all at the time. Van der Stuel represented the OSCE and not the Council of Europe. And not he offered this option with windows, but it was a compromise, because at that time the first citizenship law was passed with quotas that simply were not acceptable to the international community. In almost every word, you deceived our younger colleagues. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Papule: “That’s it! That's it!” ) But if you have problems with memory, sources are available, perhaps you could just read it. Colleagues! Do you really view newborn children as enemies and as a threat to Latvia? Well, if that's the case, we can hardly call ourselves democracy... Better late than never. This really is just the first step, it does not solve this growing problem. The presence of non-citizens is not the problem of non-citizens themselves, but the problem of Latvia's democracy, because a significant part of the population, the taxpayer, is excluded from the democratic decision-making process. If we really want to make Latvia a democratic country, we will have to tackle this problem. I call for a vote in favour. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U128	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U129	There are a number of things that I would like to mention after hearing the arguments of other speakers. First thing. Mr. Dombrava! An example of bottles... And so on... Classic hate speech! Because the same example can be given for bottles at the Freedom Monument on November 18, at Līgus, no matter what other celebrations... Don't personalize, apply to some one or two individuals, I don't know, individuals! For in every nation, every nation, I apologize, there are people who are called... in some rough words. This cannot be an argument in Parliament to not support. This leads to a second argument, which is much more relevant. If the National Association is so afraid that it is not here... There has not been integration with people, and so on, then I have to say that 28 years after the restoration of independence, the Latvian education system... then the National Association admits that the Latvian education system has experienced a complete and total fiasco, if 28 years after the restoration of independence, the people who were born in free Latvia are disloyal to Latvia, no Latvian language, no relevant educational institutions have been completed. It is therefore clear that the Minister for Education and Science, who was nominated at the time by the National Association, is also among the ministers who have led the educational system to a fiasco state. But it's probably not so crazy. It is perhaps simply an argument to manipulate society again. The third thing. Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas spoke of the right to choose. There is little legal nuance here - the child has no capacity, he has no right to choose. He can't choose. And so it's more important who chooses – the country or someone else. The State must give priority to the rights of the child, as according to Article 6 of the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child, priority is the rights of the child, not the right of parents to choose what the rights of the child will be. It is therefore also from this point of view that this is the task of the country - to resolve this issue. And what I want to say in conclusion. This very hot discussion... Once again, what has been presented by the President of Latvia... It's about more than ten children at all. We are afraid of more than ten unborn children in Latvia. What will be in the proposals is the question of 10 thousand (maximum!) Born in Latvia, grown up and acquired in the Latvian education system. The question is that... It is absolutely clear that at the moment when we come to a united society, to a society without signs of division - at the moment, a policy based on fear of coming there and threatening something, walking with bottles somewhere and the like, simply will not be objectively needed in Latvia. At that point, there will be a very simple policy. And its policy is - how rich our country will be, as we, the citizens of Latvia living together, whether we have one nationality or another nationality - how we will achieve the result that Latvia will become at least the tenth richest country in the world. This is the main task, not to be afraid of more than twenty babies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U130	The time allowed for the debate is 15 minutes. Mr. Pimenov, would you have had five? Would you please? Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U131	Thank you. Let us be able to do everything, honourable colleagues, before the break. A brief reference, because Mr. Kirstein has already started to comment on history. The II Congress of the Latvian People's Front promised that the LTF stands for the acquisition of citizenship by the permanent residents of Latvia, who declare their desire to acquire Latvian citizenship and clearly link their fate with the state of Latvia. This was said in October 1989 and was used in LTF's appeal in the Supreme Council elections on 18 March 1990. Prior to that, there was also the LTF III Congress, which effectively repealed this decision and delegated to the Supreme Council to fulfil these promises - to take a decision on the procedure for renewing citizenship of the Republic of Latvia. But the promise had already been made, and all voters knew that the Latvian People's Front would guarantee citizenship for all who would want to associate themselves with Latvia. That promise was simply not fulfilled. As a result, Smith’s words are correct and absolutely true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U132	Name to Member Daniel Pavilut.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U133	Hello, colleagues! I think today we have seen a parliamentary debate full of glory. It's not that we're trying to convince each other here. We are, of course, talking to our audiences about what we think our constituents want to hear - at least, I think, our conservative colleagues. You see, I can't stop at this platform today, and I can't talk. I am here today because my mother and her father were citizens of the Republic of Latvia. And, of course, when they founded Latvia, their ancestors had lived in Latvia until 1913. And they became citizens at that time, 100 years ago. But my father was a non-citizen of the Republic of Latvia. And maybe someone in this room thinks I shouldn't even be here. However, I call on all of you to remember two things when we vote. Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas called for a referendum. Okay. But let us take into account that such surveys on the opinion of the citizens of the Republic of Latvia have already been held and the majority of society supports granting citizenship to children of non-citizens! And the other thing that has been said here today. We, those who support this project are talking about the future, about children who will be born, about our children, about our children in Latvia, not about the past, with which some of those present are still under way. I appeal to support the draft law presented by the President and to vote for the future, for the children of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U134	Mr Valaiņš, will you have two minutes to debate? Wouldn't it be enough? Obviously, the debate should continue after a break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name of the Secretary of the Saeima for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U135	Not registered: Valery Agešins, Sergey Dolgopolovs, Rihards Kols, Armands Krauze, Regina Ločmele-Lunova, Igor Pimenovs, Ivars Puga, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Lubova Švecova and Jānis Urbanovičs. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U136	Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U137	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber! We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - draft law “On the termination of the status of non-citizen for children”. We are continuing the debate. The name is Sandy Riekstin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U138	Good afternoon, colleagues! Yeah, a lot has already been agreed. I would, however, like to say one thing about that fear. It's being accused that we're afraid of it. We all know that, when we stand for elections, there is an option in the questionnaire - whether or not to state nationality. It's a free choice. One member does not indicate, and these Members then say something about fear. You know, if you are afraid or ashamed of your nationality, there is no moral right to decide whether or not to give any automatic citizenship. I will tell you from my personal experience when I visit a country of the European Union. There was a new family, tourists, who also told everyone that they were from Latvia, but at the same time both were wearing sports clothes on their back with the inscription Rossija (Russia). You know, I, a Latvian citizen, felt sorry at that moment, to put it mildly. Citizenship of Latvia should be desired, as it also includes responsibilities and responsibilities, and it should not be shared among all who will be born here. I call for this draft law not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U139	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U140	Dear President, Honourable Members! Really... Yes, I am sorry, Mr Cilevičs is right, Max van der Stull was the OSCE Commissioner... In the Council of Europe, for one moment the Commissioner for Human Rights was Nils Muižnieks. But, you know, they were like two drops of water. And also these two organizations, where from Europe... Russia was the largest financier... In fact, they were like two drops of water, because the management and majority of both organizations would be happy if a zero version had been adopted in Latvia by the Citizenship Law. The representatives of both organizations traveled here and tried to impose it on us in every way. Two more things I want to say. First of all, we do not regard these children as enemies. If that were the case, it would not be legally written that from the age of 16, everyone would be able to choose. Why should this fragile balance of political parties be undermined? Why should the delicate balance between the rights of parents and children be disrupted? Because it is very precise here: parents have the right not to accept this nationality, to travel to Russia or to other CIS countries with facilitations. And children really have the right, but they will still not be able to exercise these rights before the age of 16 or before the age of 18 when they can be elected. So, Mr. Pavlut, if anyone wants to vote for "Development/About!" If his parents have not granted citizenship, he will still be able to obtain it before reaching the age of 18. If someone doesn't like the voter's opinion on the crucial issues, I... Indeed, I also agree with the honourable speaker who said that such issues should in fact be distinguished in a referendum, not so that we "replace" one parish to another or something like that. This is an important issue for Latvia as a whole. And, you know what it's pulling to? If you don't like referendums or people's opinion, then you can like extraordinary elections. It is not always the case for those who hope that they will sit on a white horse again in an emergency. And the last one. Here, some spoke of loyalty. Do those who today form the huge crowd in Pārdaugava at the monument of the army of the Occupants, imagine that Stalin's regime has been cooperating with chitleric Germany for two years? Almost two years - from August 1939 to late June 1941! And we honor it, we cannot demolish this monument without the authorisation of the Occupants! We can't even remove a red army gun or a machine gun in Jēkabpils - the yellow one on the postage. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Pimenov: “ Aleksandr, on the subject!” ) Now you are talking about loyalty. You're not embarrassed? ( The box “No! ”) ; “For children!” ) For those kids who keep the carriages to the... For two years, Germany has been cooperating with the chitleric Germany and is now celebrating this monument! You're still here and you're talking! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Pimenov: “We are talking about children!” ) Therefore, I think it is not necessary to break this balance between the rights of parents and children if both options are envisaged. And don't come and tell me here that everyone is loyal and that they have some other right. All rights already exist. Thank you. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U141	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U142	A little remark. At the meeting of the Commission, the Presidential Chancellery advisor Janis Pleps pointed out that the President of Latvia proposes that the termination of the status of non-citizen be determined by a special law rather than by amendments to the Citizenship Law. I have to remind you, colleagues, that we have also signed in a government declaration that we will not open our citizenship law. I therefore stress once again that this is just about children who have not yet been born and who will be granted citizenship. Last year, 33 babies were born. Next year, looking at the previous year, it seems that there will be a downward trend for this number. Consequently, I think that these children are not to blame for being born in families where parents do not understand where they live. I therefore ask you to support this draft law at first reading. This draft law does not revise the fundamental principles of citizenship, as it is a specific regulation for one particular situation. On the other hand, the concerns I have heard here about the fact that there will be a draft law to which Members will be able to submit any of their proposals... I think that Members also have their head on their shoulders to reject absurd proposals that threaten Latvia and our independence. On behalf of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, I therefore call for support for the draft law on the cessation of the status of non-citizen for children (No. 274/Lp13) at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U143	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law on ending the status of non-citizen for children at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 62 (Applause) , against -26, abstaining - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U144	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 10 days - 20 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U145	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 20 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “On Amendments to the Satversme of Ventspils University College”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Raivis Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U146	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! We work with the draft law “On Amendments to the Satversme of Ventspils University College”, views at first reading. The Commission has heard from university representatives and concluded that the shortcomings previously identified have been addressed. When we examined this matter at the commission meeting, we concluded that there are no obstacles to moving forward rapidly with the adoption of these amendments. The Commission calls for support to be given to the urgency of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U147	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “On Amendments to the Satversme of Ventspils University College” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U148	I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U149	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On Amendments to the Satversme of Ventspils University College” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U150	The deadline for submitting proposals is tomorrow, May 10, at 5 p.m. And consideration on 16 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U151	Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals was 5 p.m. on 10 May this year. Review at the Saeima sitting on 16 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Saeima Election Law”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission – Member Dace Bluķe.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U152	Hello, honourable Members! Amendments to the Saeima Election Law were reviewed by the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Four proposals were tabled for the second reading. 1. - Mr Valaina's proposal. The Commission was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U153	So we are looking at the proposals. Proposal 1 tabled by Member Viktors Valainis. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U154	Madam President, Colleagues! To save time, I will talk about all four of my proposals at once. Let me tell you the point. What am I proposing to do further? In my opinion, the Saeima Election Law does not currently correspond to what our Constitutional Fathers had thought by writing into the Constitution an article on proportional elections. And there are also a number of things that I think should be improved. These are rather fundamental proposals for amending the law. I will tell you more specifically about each proposal. The proposal provides that the number of members elected from Riga does not exceed 30 members' mandates. The same procedure also exists in the forthcoming elections to the European Parliament. In the elections to the European Parliament, too, to ensure that a minimum number of Members is set for the balance between the countries where the population is larger and the countries where the number of people is smaller, however, in some way. For example, for Malta, six Members, although the population does not finally match the arrival of six Members. And Germany, with a maximum number of 96, although if you look at the population, you would have more seats. There are no such restrictions in Latvia. So now... Let us assume that we have 35 elected members from Riga. With each election, this number of elected members of Riga is increasing and thus creates the dominant position of Riga over other regions. However, when Article 6 was entered in the Constitution, which ensures proportional elections, the purpose of this Article was precisely to ensure that the regions were represented in a proportional way. At present, this proportionality is not respected. If we look at how proportional it would be, 27-29 members should be elected from Riga. Of course, you can watch this mathematics, but currently voters abroad... all these mandates are automatically attached to Riga. In my opinion, this is not the right order and it is high time that the Saeima began to think about these issues. The second thing I included is this: As we remember, in the past there was the so-called principle of locomotives: one person could start from any area, who could have been in all five areas as a locomotives. This principle of locomotives has been interrupted, and now the situation is that... I'm not saying it's bad, I'm saying it's wrong... any person can start from any area. In my opinion, the essence is that people in the area would start out of the area... My proposal is that, let us accept, those people who have been declared at least in Latgale should start up from the Latgale region. Thus, at least I would try to ensure that real Latgale people are elected from Latgale, such as Aldis Adamovičs, who lives in Latgale and really represents Latgale every day... ( Internouncing call.) Other representatives of Latgale, but not all. ( Milestones.) Proposals 3 and 4 are also very important proposals, which provide that Latvians living abroad can choose which electoral district they will vote on. Currently, there is only one possibility for Latvians living abroad – it is Riga. But if we extended this opportunity to them, I think it would just encourage voters to be active abroad. Because if you look at migration data, we see that the Latvians who left abroad... Most of them have moved directly from the regions, and to address them to the people of the region would be the most appropriate. I think that many have been confronted with a situation in which people, friends, acquaintances, and supporters who live abroad, are asking: Why can't you vote for? This decision was taken by the Saeima at the time, and there are Members who have already voted in favour of such a proposal, but the President returned it to rereading. Why did I put this question again? Since then, a great deal has changed, and this has also been recognised by the CEC at the commission meeting. At that time, it was a really complicated issue, it would be difficult to implement in real life, and it would cost. But right now, when we're about to... start running the electoral register soon, it's a real proposal...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U155	Mr Valaiņš, your debate is over!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U156	I could ask for two more minutes, colleagues?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U157	Are Members opposed to merging the time of the debate? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U158	At the moment, given that many circumstances have changed, this proposal must be seen again. While speaking and debating within the Commission, I have consulted the Constitution on these proposals... with experts in constitutional law and opinions. The Legal Bureau of the Saeima also indicated in the Commission that these proposals are too fundamental to be discussed now that we are looking at these draft laws at second reading. I very much appreciate the existing President of the Constitutional Court and all the composition of the Constitutional Court, their decisions adopted lately. They do, however, pay attention to the questions that are submitted for the second, third reading and return them to... shall be rejected directly for failure to comply with the procedure. And in this case too, fundamental questions... I agree if the Legal Bureau of the Saeima has indicated that this issue should be dealt with from the so-called 'zero' reading. Colleagues, I call on you to support these my proposals and to pass them on to the Commission so that we can, in substance, be able to do so within the Commission... support, at least at the so-called zero reading, these four proposals, which I will prepare as a separate draft in the near future... transfer all the annotation to the commission responsible so that we can... so that we can have the opportunity to talk these things in substance, involving experts, involving scientific experts, experts in constitutional law, and to look at their situation in line with today's reality. Once again, I stress that, in my opinion, the current electoral system does not correspond to what our Constitutional Fathers wanted when entering this article into the Constitution. And this leads to the fact that Riga’s dominance and the reduction in the representation of the people of the regions, with each election, have an impact on the development of the country as a whole, in my view, not in a very successful direction. Colleagues! I have withdrawn these proposals today, but I call on you to support them when I draft such a law. Please support at least a transfer to the Commission. I look forward to your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U159	Thank you. So these proposals, from 1 to 4, have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U160	So, Member Viktor Valaiņš' proposals have been withdrawn. And now I am calling for a vote in favour of the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U161	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Saeima Election Law at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U162	The deadline for submitting proposals is 14 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U163	11?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U164	14 May
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U165	14 May Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 14 May this year. On the agenda: draft law on amendments to the Immigration Law, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Aldis Blumbergs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U166	President-in-Office. Dear colleagues, The Commission looked at the second reading of the amendments to the Immigration Law. A total of 17 proposals were received. 1. is a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The Commission supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U167	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U168	2 and the proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U169	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U170	3. There is a proposal from the Commission. It was also supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U171	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U172	So I keep going. 5. And the Member...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U173	4! Proposal No 4
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U174	Yeah, four, I'm sorry. 4. is the proposal of the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission itself. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U175	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U176	5. There is a proposal from Member Edwin Schnore. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U177	Not supported. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U178	Dear colleagues, This proposal, as well as the next proposal, is linked to the long-term residence permit programme, which is probably remembered by many of you, introduced in Latvia in 2010. Since this programme has been in existence, the Latvian economy has been attracted 1.4 billion euros, of which 1.15 billion have been invested in real estate. So, absolutely the majority. Only 250 million are other... other types of investment in which we could also include support for our business sector. But what about 1.15 billion in real estate? We can say quite safely that we have helped real estate project developers who have driven up the market prices of these properties, which have been affected by the cadastral values (often artificially priced properties, and therefore these values have been distorted), and at the same time we have made it difficult for our own - Latvia - families, where children grow, which we all so desire to see in a great number. We make it difficult for them to buy real estate... whether it is Riga or Jurmala or Pierīga municipalities. I think many of you who pass through Jurmala have noticed a large number of expensive, exclusive properties that often stand empty. And the local families... What is the message we tell them? That is the question that we have to answer together. Colleagues, if this is not an argument, I would also like to remind you of safety concerns. Someone will say that the number of residence permits issued in recent years has decreased significantly. But it is often enough for only a few people who buy real estate in strategic places. During the last six months, remember, the media were loud about the property acquired by a representative of the Russian military industry very close to Riga International Airport. And Latvian experts, who were surveyed, concluded that this owner's firm could have access to both spying technologies, such as intercepting communications signals from radars, and technologies that allow false signals to be transmitted and even intervene in navigation systems. The experts have also indicated that there are strategic objects important to us such as Latvijas Pasts, its headquarters, companies related to the military industry, and the branches of Rail Baltica in the vicinity of this real estate purchased by a representative of the Russian military industry. If any of Latvia's security does not seem to be an important aspect, I invite you to be aware of our responsibility in the context of the European Union. As early as this year, the European Commission called for a communication not to trade so-called "golden visas". The European Commission's Justice Commissioner, Vera Jurova, stressed in particular that often the origin of money derived from these "golden visas" that is linked to the country in question is largely unknown and presents appropriate risks. Latvia together with Spain, Hungary, Portugal and the United Kingdom... is one of the countries most trading in such "golden visas". 12 097 citizens from Russia come from all foreign citizens who have bought them in Latvia. If we list Russian citizens attracted by Spain, the United Kingdom and Greece, it is half as much as our relatively small country. What the origin of money, which has not been tested, is very well known because Moneyval is a word that almost every citizen of Latvia knows today. The 2019 budget has, I recall, already identified more than 30 million to be devoted to the adjustment of the financial system, which we were unable to direct to socially disadvantaged groups (e.g. to increase the minimum pension). Among other things, the Ombudsman, who is authority, has pointed out, I think, to many of us when it comes to the socially vulnerable groups of Latvia and their interests. Since I really call for a responsible examination of this issue and, in the context of the analysis of the impact of TUA on our country, society and security. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U179	Name to Member Edvin Schnorem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U180	Hello, colleagues! Here, part of what I wanted to say, too, has already been said. In particular, at the beginning of this year, the European Commission indeed drew attention to the fact that temporary residence permits were traded in the European Union and had risks. I will quote, as the European Commission has addressed the Member States: "Temporary permit marketing schemes pose risks to both individual Member States and the European Union as a whole, including security, money laundering, corruption and circumvention of European Union rules." We see that, by nature, the European Union almost explicitly calls on the Member States not to use these schemes, because their side-effects are more than potential benefits in the long term. I think no one here needs to explain what reputation problems Latvia has already encountered in relation to scandals in banks and so-called non-resident investments (mainly, of course, from Russia) in Latvian banks. The losses that this initial desire for rapid money from Russia will bring are enormous, and Latvia's reputation has been seriously undermined. In the long term, these losses are likely to be greater than the profits of each other’s bank. We can already see that the investments of the Western countries are shrinking, and Latvia's dubious reputation plays an important role in it, i.e. as a grey area in which Russian dirty money and thus Russian virtues prevail. And really, as I said here... and I can assure you that 90 percent of investors in this programme come from Russia and CIS countries. The Latvian security authorities themselves have recognised that they do not examine the origin of money invested in real estate. There is some control over those who invest in banks, whereas real estate cannot trace this money, and so we cannot rule out that after a bank scandal a scandal can also be followed by a real estate scandal. Finally, I would like to remind you that nine years ago... this programme - the trading of temporary residence permits - was introduced as a crisis, that is to say, a measure in 2010. It may have had economic impact at the beginning, but after the Russian invasion in Ukraine, when these rules were made more stringent, the contribution to the economy is minimal, and this was also underlined by the Ministry of Economics, which reported on it in our commission. And it is also partly characterized by the fact that more than 10 percent of the revenue from this programme goes to its administration. So several hundred thousand, for example, go to the security authorities to examine these applications, which are now very few. In turn, the state’s reputational risks, security risks remain and are still high. I therefore call for such a programme not to be supported and closed. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U181	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U182	I would like to refer to Mr Schnore's speech on the influx of dirty money from Russia, on questions... In taking on and acting in this capacity, he has therefore actively supported actions and policies I would like to oppose this: why, Mr Šnores, you are not talking about the fact that, after the invasion in Crimea in 2014, your coalition leader Prime Minister Kariņš and his family have carried out exactly such real estate transactions (which you talked about in your speech) in connection with the building of the former cinema Pioneer in Riga, Skolas iela 2? There are millions of Moscow Mayor Luzkov's deputy movie theater Pionieris coming into Latvia through the offshores from Cyprus. ( Insight: “On the subject! ”) ) We know very well what is the state of the Pioneer cinema building. It is actually in a rather sad state. It seems to have invested 6.5 million euros in a period when Kariņš family has disposed of this property in a very interesting way to the people concerned. Where are these links going? ( Internouncing call.) The Silkin family. You should talk about this in this context, that its danger starts with the Prime Minister in whose government you are. That wouldn't be double. That would be the essence. That would be the essence! However, you do not allow such a situation, you do not worry about such a situation, that you have a Prime Minister who actually has transactions with persons from Russia, so that money in Latvian real estate is very likely to be washed and legalized. That is what the National Association should do, by its very nature, is to raise the alarm. We also have an alarm law. As protectors of national interests, you should deal with this issue. You're not doing that. It's very interesting why you make such an exception and don't worry about the Prime Minister's family... ( From the NA fraction: “You’re up! ” ) It is very interesting. Consequently, issues that concern all other problems related to immigration can to a certain extent be described as a duality, as in fact the most important officials in the country should start. You agree, huh? The premiere should start (interface: “With yourself!” ) and the Prime Minister should set an example that, after the invasion in Crimea, he should not invest property in equity capital in order not to pay personal income tax and should not sell it to a person who does not have any resources at all in his declaration to buy such property. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Strike: "On the proposal! Talk about the proposal!” ) I therefore call on Mr Šnore to mention in his speech Prime Minister Karina, with whom you are in a coalition, the illegal funds and investments from Russia, especially from Moscow mayor, when he talks about the invasion in Crimea. Then it will not be twofold, then you will really be the protectors of national interests, and you will be the ones who are alarming that state senior officials are allowed more than ordinary citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U183	The name of the Member, John Isal. ( Interface: “Arise anxiety! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U184	The alarm had to be raised in 2014 and in previous years, when... I will remind you of the situation at the time when funds of unknown origin from Russia and CIS countries flowed to Latvia in a huge stream. In the month, hundreds of temporary residence permits were issued to their buyers - the so-called Sleser investors. And then, despite the enormous pressure of the lobby, the blackmail campaign, which invested several hundred thousand lats, not the euro, and was directed against the National Union - despite all this, we achieved these restrictions in 2014, and from 1 September 2014... Several thousand permits were issued in the past, whereas the number of permits has now fallen by more than twenty. At that time, all security authorities warned: if this system continues, then it will simply not be possible to control what comes here in Latvia and what money flows into. At that time, we only managed to prevent it because we, the National Union, were in government. If the National Association had not been in government at that time, given that the former Prime Minister had a personal business, interests in this business, we would probably still talk about the issue of thousands of temporary residence permits per year. Consequently, I call for the temporary market to be closed as a whole and for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U185	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U186	I call on you to vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U187	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Member Schnores's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 26, for - 53, for - 8. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U188	The next proposal is that of Members Cole, Dombrava, Izalnieks, Ribena and Janson, who have not been supported. It's basically related to the previous proposal, 5, the proposal... ( The utterances are: ‘ Let’s vote! ’) ) Let's vote!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U189	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - the proposal put forward by Members Kola, Dombrava, Izalnieks, Ribena and Janson! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 26, for - 47, for - 14. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U190	7. there is a proposal from those Members, which is also, in essence, related to the previous proposal, 5. There is no support in the Commission. ( Interface: “Let’s vote! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U191	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - the proposal put forward by Members Kola, Dombrava, Izalnieks, Ribena and Janson! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 26, for - 47, for - 14. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U192	8 / 8 - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Bergan-Berg. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U193	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U194	9. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U195	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U196	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Blumberg's proposal from Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U197	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U198	11. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Partially supported, included 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U199	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U200	12. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Commission-supported, included 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U201	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U202	13. - The Commission's own proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U203	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U204	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U205	Supported by the Commission. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U206	Now... Yes. I just... Yeah... So supported. Next and 15. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U207	Members support proposal 15.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U208	16. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Partly supported by the Commission is included in the 17th report. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U209	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U210	17. - The Commission's own proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U211	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U212	I call on my colleagues to vote in favour of the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U213	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Immigration"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 89, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U214	The deadline is 21 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U215	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 21 May this year. On the agenda - examination of a request from Members. The request made by Members. Honourable Members! We have received a request from Member Viktors Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Armands Krauze, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Alda Gobzema, Julia Stepanenko, Raimonds Bergmanis, Janina Jalinska, Gundars Dūklavs, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pūcem, about actions of the Minister in suspending the activities of municipal polls in Ikškile and Jelgava municipalities. The applicants have asked for a statement of reasons. Member Viktors Valainis on behalf of the applicants. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “The most live example of how societies work!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U216	Latvia is an independent democratic republic. The municipalities are certainly an integral part. What Ikšķiles and Jelgavas are doing right now is the way... how to understand what the local people think about the administrative territorial reform that has now been announced by the minister concerned. Municipalities... I think you could say that absolutely all municipalities... It is unlikely that at least one municipality will be found in which the elected members would have said: "We will eliminate this municipality." I think you won't find such a municipality. I don't have that information at my disposal either. But now that the circumstances have changed to some extent, the Minister is proposing a rather ambitious reform. At present, these representatives of local governments, Members, are legitimately seeking to ascertain the opinion of the citizens. And what Minister Puce is doing right now... with his attitude, with his instruments, make every effort to reject the opportunity for citizens to express their views, the opportunity for citizens' representatives to carry out polls in accordance with the law. The residents of Ikšķile municipality are likely to meet at 15.00 today at a joint meeting and decide to challenge this decision of the Minister before the Constitutional Court. We have prepared this request with a number of questions and we ask the Minister for answers to them - how exactly he wants to find out the opinion of the citizens, which is not exactly the right thing in the activities of the municipalities when they try to find out the opinion of the citizens. Not just trying to influence, but simply trying to find out citizens about this issue in a particular area. If it is suspended, it is unacceptable. The use by the Minister of the final instrument at his disposal - the suspension of binding rules - is unacceptable. The Minister has a number of other instruments, such as the opportunity to call for negotiations, to ask for something to be corrected, to help. This is the real and only way to find out the true views of local authorities on this issue. Asking the Rigaers what they think about the inhabitants of Zilupe would be the same thing as asking Zilupe what they think about the Rigans. Well, that's not normal! Specific citizens must be asked in a specific place, and the local authorities can do this best. It is also set out in the European Charter of Local Authorities, which Latvia has ratified, and Latvia must respect internationally agreed norms. In our view, the Minister is not doing this at the moment. I call for this request to be dealt with by the Commission as soon as possible in order to give the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U217	Thank you. The time limit for the motivation of the request has expired. Dear colleagues, This request shall be made available to all Members and shall be forwarded to the Commission. On the agenda - consideration of the draft decision. Draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the draft law on the electricity market (No. (77/Lp13) for the second reading until 31 May 2019.’ Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. ( Interface: Anekdoti!) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U218	Hello, colleagues! This proposal is directly linked to the parliamentary decision on the OIC, on which we commissioned the Ministry of Economic Affairs to come up with its own solution - how it intends to deal with this story. The deadline came to an end in March, but the Ministry of Economics was unable to make such a proposal. To put it more correctly, a proposal was made which, in the eyes of the government, prevented the Saeima from submitting it to it. Then we, the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, as the supervisory committee, invited the Ministry of Economic Affairs for this process and asked for clarification - what is really happening then and how is the Ministry going to proceed with this issue. The Ministry of Economy promised us that it could prepare its proposal within one month. This month passed, a month later we invited the Ministry of Economics again and presented our view. This time, unlike the first proposal made by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which did not even come to the Saeima, this proposal really had a rational, real direction in which the OIC sector could be arranged. In particular, it is necessary to put in place a control system, to look at how these operators eligible for aid actually fulfil the conditions for aid, and to recalculate the amount of aid so that it is proportionate and not excessive. Many really needed things have to be done. But what is the nature of the matter? Three months have passed, then one month has passed, and now the Ministry of Economics is saying that within a month it could come with concrete proposals on how to implement all these things. The Ministry of Economics asked us to give an opportunity... asked for an extension of the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law on the electricity market law, which is in our second reading, so that the Ministry can submit proposals. What's a little embarrassing in this whole story? That in principle all these amendments are already covered by this draft law. All the things that the Ministry of Economics is talking about have long been in this bill, which was seen by the previous Saeima. We got to second reading. This Saeima took over this bill, and then it suddenly got stuck. I very much hope that the initiative of this Ministry of Economics really... that they really want to put forward proposals that will help to sort this sector out, and that this is not just a desperate attempt in some way of the things that the Ministry of Economics promises all the time, but does not do... a way to recirped it all. In other words, the Ministry of Economics requested almost exclusively in mid-June as the deadline by which it should submit... to enable them to submit such proposals. But what if we give such a long time to submit proposals? This means that, with this draft law, we will not be able to manage at all during this part-session. This means that all this will come back to the autumn, but in the autumn, of course, something will change again. And so this endless story will continue again. These empty promises, these talks about what you can do and what you can do, will continue again and will not be really done again. We have given the Ministry of Economic Affairs this opportunity. We have stated that the deadline is 31 May. We hope that the Ministry of Economics will really make such proposals. We hope that this will not be an attempt by the Ministry of Economics to torpedo this process and try to create a new cover for this area. I call, colleagues, on us to support this proposal and then to consider these amendments very quickly, so that we are still in this part-session... When we go on summer holidays, we would have one good job feeling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U219	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the draft law on the electricity market (No. 77/Lp13) for the second reading until 31 May 2019’! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. On the agenda is the examination of the own-initiative proposal. In taking on and acting in this capacity, he has therefore supported actions and policies which undermine the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Kaspars Girgens.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U220	Good afternoon, honourable colleagues! On the draft decision of the Saeima “On Crimean Tatar Deportion 75th anniversary and support for Crimean policy of non-recognition of illegal annexation”, I would like to say the following on behalf of the Commission. The last century was cruel. Nearly all nations of the world have their own 20th - century tragedies to mention. For us too. What the Soviet authorities did from May 18 to May 20, 1944 was inconceivable. On 18 May 1944, all the Crimean Tatars, including women, children, old-fighters and soldiers who returned from the front, were awakened by the soldiers of the USSR People's Commissioner for Home Affairs at the morning. The Crimean Tatars were brought to livestock cars and taken mainly to the territory of Uzbekistan. Grounds: Indictment of state trait in cooperation with the Nazis. The Latvian nation has also experienced deportation. The difference is that Crimean Tatars were completely and completely exported. Crimean Tatar lost a third of the people. If now, a little more than a week before the 75th anniversary of Crimea's Tatar deportations were mentioned, these events would have to be described, here rarely who would choose another name as a "genocide". The highest cause of deportation in Ukraine has been identified as a genocide against the Tatars. The declaration on the occupation of Latvia also highlights that during the occupation the USSR has implemented genocide in Latvia. We have strengthened our intolerance and condemnation of any form of national discrimination, condemned genocide and highlighted its inadmissibility. Latvia must, after everything that has happened to our country and people in the 20th century, be among those countries that strongly advocate strengthening the facts and the true history, especially at a time when attempts are being made to rewrite it. Russia illegally annexed Crimea five years ago, and history is beginning to repeat. Those of Crimean Tatars who refuse to accept Russian citizenship and do not recognise Crimea's unlawful annexation face discrimination. They are denied access to education, medical care, access to their mother tongue, care for their traditions and culture. It is inconceivable that Crimean Tatars are violently oppressed, persecuted and forced to leave their homeland for the second time in 75 years. That is why we need to make it politically clear that it was a genocide that the Soviet regime implemented against the Crimean Tatars and other peoples living in the occupied areas of the USSR by systematically using administrative methods. We must also do so in order to bring the international community closer to an understanding of the inequitable scale of such crimes. Dear colleagues, The draft decision was created in cooperation with both Ukrainians and representatives of Crimean Tatars, as well as, of course, at local level, by exploring the public opinion of the countries of the world on this issue. The Foreign Affairs Commission adopted this statement at its meeting... the draft decision by seven votes to one. At the said meeting of the Commission, our historical experience and vision were given to us by the Chairman of Crimean Tatar Medžlis and the Member of the Supreme Creation of Ukraine Refatos Čubarovs, who highly appreciated Latvia's support for Ukraine and Crimean Tatars. On behalf of the Commission, I call on you to support this communication... the draft decision, thus saying again loudly that nothing else should be repeated. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U221	Thank you. Let us start a debate. on behalf of the Group. - Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U222	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. High honourable Members! Many of you have heard and, I admit, some have even read George Orwell’s famous book in 1984. Orwell’s invented Oceania community gathered daily for a two - minute session of hatred, in which they were obliged to express their hatred against the enemies of the party. Orwell, such a two - minute hatred aimed, in the opinion of Orwell, at diverting people’s inner dissatisfaction from the Oceania government to the outside and internal enemies of the party. Dear colleagues, It is these parallels that arise when we see the current national association's inspired resolution. It is absolutely clear that the real aim of this resolution is not to mention the Tatar deportations of Crimea. It is worth noting, colleagues, that Crimean Tatar deportation day is 18 May, not 9 May. It is absolutely clear that the purpose of the declaration is not to help the new President of Ukraine in dealing with the annexation of Crimea. It is absolutely clear that the purpose of the declaration is not to help Crimean Tatars. Dear colleagues, We all know very well that the aim of the National Alliance is not and never has been to mention the deportation of Tatars, Chechens, Jews, Indians, Pakistanns, Mexicans and other peoples. I even think that if the National Union had a real chance, they would be happy to deport some national representatives themselves. This resolution has nothing to do with foreign policy. It is intended for internal use and its purpose is a specific nationality living in Latvia. The draft resolution shall be drawn up by the National Association at the beginning of the current session of hatred. Without such regular sessions of hatred in the country, however, God does not give us any peace. We will not participate in this session or in the next session of hatred. We will not respond to hatred with hatred. We will not participate in the debate or participate in the vote. Members of the National Alliance, we will be happy to participate in the discussions and we will also support you - yes! - if you propose a resolution on how to promote fertility, if you submit a resolution on how to stop people from leaving, if you submit a resolution on job creation. But in hatred you can boil yourself. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U223	Mr Dombrovskis, I am forced to remind you of the Code of Conduct of Members of the Saeima and its Article 7, which states: “The Member in public statements... is based on facts, their fair interpretation and reasoning.” The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Dombrovskis: “Thanks for the reminder!” ) We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U224	I am a young Member in this Saeima, so maybe I don't understand anything, but... I do not really understand how one can defend a genocide from the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia. ( Internouncing call.) In my opinion, genocide against any nation deserves condemnation. It's shameful that on the part of the political group... that in this way you are implementing the foreign policy of the Russian Federation here from the parliamentary tribunal of the Republic of Latvia. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U225	Name to Member Aldim Adamovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U226	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, On 25 April, some of the Members representing the Group of Members of the Latvian Parliament for cooperation with the Ukrainian Parliament (Ukrainian Supreme Nation) had a meeting with both the new Ambassador of Ukraine and the head of Crimean Tatar Medžlis Refata Čubarva, who had lived in Riga until the beginning of the 1990s, and he heard this statement... the draft decision. I call on you, of course, to support this today, because Russia is now turning the Crimea into its own military fortress. It is Russia's predecessor on the NATO southern flank, and it is a large space associated with the Black Sea and the Azov Sea region. In order to achieve these objectives, Russia is most extortioning those people who are not loyal to it who are openly opposed to the occupation, who are not putting their heads even in the context of the occupation. Crimean Tatars have lived in this territory for centuries. Currently, the number of Crimean Tatars... There are now some 300 thousand Tatars on the Crimean Peninsula. Of course, Russia is currently hosting its citizens in Crimea and, according to the modestest estimates, it already has some 500 000. The Medžlis, an organ of the Tatar representation in Crimea, is prohibited, the Crimean Tatar telechannel is closed, the Crimean Tatars are left, so to speak, without a vote, and the repression that causes many to leave the territory of Crimea continues. A large part of Crimean Tatars are accused of extremist and terrorist acts, but it is a paradox that, while living in the territory of Ukraine for 23 years, under the conditions of actual and legal sovereignty of Ukraine, there has been no case of terrorism. And could go on with the list... I call you today... As you have heard, May 18 is a great tragedy day for the Tatars of Crimea. I call on us to adopt this statement of support for the Crimean Tatars on the eve of this day. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U227	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U228	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Mr. Adamovich! Unfortunately, you were not at the Foreign Affairs Commission (Dep. A. Adamovich: “I was!” )... You were, but... You need to remember that first there was a discussion, but then Mr. Mishchenko, the Ambassador of Ukraine... And all this is reflected in our report to the Ambassador of Ukraine... that as if we are adopting this condemning resolution... And here's the document... "The subject matter of the draft decision in question is indeed important. I condemn genocide. The fate of Crimean Tatar people in the 20th century was truly difficult and tragic.” But I'll let you expand a little the time frame of this story... The initiators of this document are extending the repression of the Tatars of Crimea to the 21st century, Putin Russia. I dare to ask myself: How did the red terror appear in Crimea? Who did it, who brought it there 100 years ago? So I'm back in the past. As part of the Russian Empire, Crimean Tatars were already one and a half centuries before the 1917 Revolution. Following the fall of the czar, they formed their own people's council, or colthai, which proclaimed the sovereignty of Crimea. This means that Crimea's sovereignty was declared a year before Latvia's declaration of independence. Crimea, too, was its own name. But in December 1917 the Revolutionary Committee of Sevastopol was led by Juris Gavens (the real name is Jānis Daumanis), who was born in Iecava parish. The Crimean Bolsheviks then fully conquered in November 1920. The Latvian Division of the Red Army was active in this operation. Later, the executions were conducted by international avantors, Bela Kuns and Rosaly Zemlacka, without trial and investigation. But the chairman of the Central Executive Committee of the Republic of the Taurian Republic (the then called Crimea) was Janis Miller (the real name is Jānis Šepte). Why did I now name these words, which you unfortunately do not know? Because we don't have to shoot on the past with a bis, because it can answer with a gun. And a little bit about the current events in Crimea. Thank God, there are no more wars or bloodshed on this peninsula, but above all, Latvia now has no moral right to speak about the closure of schools, because schools with Crimean Tatar language in Crimea really have. There are few of them, but they are. But in Latvia there will soon be no minority schools. Politically motivated arrests, detentions, criminal cases also take place in Latvia, and you know that very well. I think it is not necessary to raise this issue here before we become human rights champions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U229	Name to Member Uldis Budric.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U230	Mr. Dombrovskis, thank you. If we start to quote Orwell, I would like to remind you that “War is peace”, “Freedom is slavery”, “Nunity is power”. ( Internouncing call.) Yeah, we've been 50 years... we have had both deportation and oppression. And the same happens now. And you, our red friends, really have to think about which parliament you are in. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Papule: ‘Money will suffice?’ ) Because Russia really is not here. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U231	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U232	Dear President, Honourable Members! We have just heard the views of the Russian Embassy's eggs. (Applause) Zemlacka and Bela Kuns were not Latvians. Mr. Cabanov knows exactly what kind of nationality they had. And Czechs. The state of Latvia has never participated in any terror in Crimea, Mr. Kabanov. So that you respond to the brothers of your people, and don't mix where you don't understand anything. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. N. Cabanov: “I didn’t say that!” ) You directly named Latvian strifemen. What do they have to do with the country of Latvia? ( Interface: “Nothing! ”) ) Thus - this is a document of the State of Latvia. Right? ( Intercretion: “Rightly! ” ) And we condemn this terror. And at the moment there is no right to be either Russia or Russian troops. And the last one. You mentioned schools. Mr. Cabanov, you're very cunning! It is not for nothing that you spoke from the Foreign Affairs Commission to the Russian Embassy and told them regularly. We know who you are. Don't spread provocation here, as if you didn't know what a territorial minority is! Crimean Tatars live on their territory, just as Swedes live on their territory in the Dutch islands of Finland, where there are two languages. But where is your territory? Where is Russian territory in Latvia, where have they historically lived? So don't come here and fool with your provocations. I call on you to support this draft decision and not to listen to the roosters of the Russian Embassy. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U233	The name of Member Juta Stricky.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U234	You didn't know for a long time that Latvia has been occupied, you can't say it at the moment. And now that there is a war between Ukraine and Russia, a real war where people die, where part of Ukraine is occupied, you are on the bloody Putin and bloody Russian side. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Papule intersages.) I am ashamed that the interests of Putin and Russia are being defended in the Latvian Parliament. I am also ashamed of everything I heard from Dombrovskis and Cabanov here before the Ukrainians. I call for support. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U235	I closed the debate. Mr. Girgen, the Commission's opinion!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U236	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Committee on Foreign Affairs voted as follows: in favour of -7, against - 1. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, I call for support for this draft decision. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U237	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the 75th anniversary of Crimean Tatar deportation and support for Crimean policy of non-recognition of illegal annexation! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 71, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting was examined. I would like to inform you about the answers to Members' questions scheduled today. Member Reizniece-Ozola, Augulis, Čakša, Kučinska and Dūklavs question to the Minister for Welfare “On Improvements in the Payment and Reporting of Assistant Service”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informed that she would not be able to attend the oral response at 5 p.m. The replies to Members' questions, therefore, are not yet available today. Please call me! Please register the Members! Dear colleagues, Today's birthday is celebrated by our fellow Member Gundars Dauge (interfaces: Ooo!) ), and we welcome him. (Applause) Name for Member Ojārs Eriks Kalniņš' statement.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U238	Dear colleagues, We just voted... and we talked about the occupation of Latvia. I invite everyone to come to the nearby room to establish a group of Members in support of the Museum of Occupation of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U239	Name of the Saeima Secretary Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U240	Not registered: Valery Agešins, Sergey Dolgopolovs, Artuss Kaimiņš, Rihards Kols, Armands Krauze, Regina Ločmele-Lunova, Romanas Naudiņš, Ivars Puga, Karina Sprūde and Lubova Švecova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-09-PT13-536-U241	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
