ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take a seat in the Chamber so that we can start the sitting of the Saeima on 5 September 2019. Welcome to all of you at the start of the autumn session. Honourable Members! Autumn session when you start... we will begin with a speech by the President of Latvia Egil Levite. Name to President Egil Levit.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U2	Very honourable Members of the Saeima! Dear Members of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! The Saeima Sitting Hall has two wall plates on which the first two articles of our Constitution are written: “Latvia is an independent democratic republic” and “the sovereign power of the state of Latvia belongs to the people of Latvia”. These tablets remind us of the foundations of the Constitution, that is, what should always be our country and which will always belong to power in Latvia. It is also an important message that these plates are located directly in the Saeima’s meeting room. Latvia, according to the concept of the Satversme, is a parliamentary republic. The meeting room of the Saeima is a central place where public policies are made and decisions are made that will affect our whole future. Latvia, like most other European countries, is a typical parliamentary democracy. According to the concept of the Constitution, a popular parliament - the Saeima - is located in the centre of state political power. Only the Saeima has received its democratic legitimacy directly from the people - from a set of citizens. Parliamentary democracy, which has been typical and typical of Latvia since its announcement, is characterised by our historical membership of the European cultural space and the tradition of Western rights. With us in Europe, there is no reliance on a strong hand or on a single wise person, who alone can take all the necessary decisions instead of others. The state is the common cause, joint responsibility and joint participation of all its citizens. Therefore, every citizen has an opportunity and, I would like to say, an obligation to take part in the management of his or her state. That is why we manage Latvia collegially - expressing our vision, our thoughts on development scenarios, looking for thinkers and finding compromises. Parliamentaryism thus symbolises and reflects the joint and collegial responsibility for the country. On the basis of the powers set out in the Constitution, political scientists recognize our Saeima as one of the strongest parliaments in the world. The Saeima has been given a wide range of possibilities to define the political agenda and to be the centre of the constitutional order. However, the question is whether in practice, in constitutional reality, the Saeima is as influential and strong as in the text of the Satversme. European democracy has long been facing a phenomenon that could be characterised by the marginalisation of parliaments. Parliament's influence on constitutional facilities is decreasing and their ability to be a real centre of public policy is losing most of its weight. This, of course, applies not only to Latvia, but to all parliamentary democrats. This trend has become quite evident in the last 20-30 years. There is also much talk about it elsewhere. I will mention just three common developments in European parliamentary democrats, which are also topical challenges for our constitutional system and specifically for the Saeima. Firstly, in relations between Parliament and government, the weight of political power and initiative is today a government rather than a parliament. This is linked to the increasing complexity of legislative work and the need for increasingly specific knowledge. Members of Parliament are often forced to submit to a more competent argument from the draft government, because knowledge is concentrated within the government. As a result, the government's perceptions prevail over the perceptions of Parliament, which it takes to a large extent. Secondly, the increase in the influence of the classic media and, in particular, of social media, gives politicians - especially Members of Parliament in particular - greater difficulty in keeping on the political agenda the subjects they wish to discuss, taking into account their perceptions of the common good of society. In the age of false news and sensations, politics, and therefore, and Parliament in particular, can quite simply shift towards a short-term, hasty solution path. Of course, open debates between different sections of society on an issue is and remains at the heart of democracy. However, politicians must be aware of the need to maintain an interest and initiative on sustainability-oriented conceptual issues in the broad spectrum of topics. Despite the sensations and recommendations of the 'fast-track recipes', Parliament must be able to distinguish the important from an insignificant, real problem from a false problem, a reality from manipulation. But the way we all see is not easy and is becoming more and more difficult. Thirdly, integration in the European Union is also having an impact on the autonomous legislation of the national Parliament, as national legislation is increasingly translated into European legal references. Around 80 per cent of the adopted national economic laws and 50 per cent of all laws present the European Union's handwriting in one way or another, but at the same time this makes it possible to prioritise the work of national Parliaments, especially in areas of social, educational, health, cultural, tax and other importance to society, which are not regulated within the European Union. Parliamentary democracy must be strong, capable of responding to today's challenges and demonstrating its effectiveness and effectiveness. I would therefore like to call for support and support for any initiative aimed at strengthening the Saeima and improving the quality of its work. Today, Parliament and every Member of Parliament also needs highly qualified scientific and legal support staff. Without such support, it will be increasingly difficult for the Saeima to assess the government's expertise and to recover conversation, participation on matters of strategic importance. The family must be able to provide an independent, equivalent and qualitative argumentation. I would like to see very close, collegial and joint cooperation between the Saeima and the President of Latvia in the future. The Constitutional Court has derived the principle of interinstitutional loyalty from the principle of division of state power in a judgment, which establishes the framework of cooperation between the Saeima and the President of the State. The Satversme gives the President of Latvia an opportunity to raise national issues on the political agenda and to encourage them to think about them in order to find the necessary solutions. I would like to take this opportunity to move forward on a few issues that would consistently bring us closer to a modern, sustainable North European country and highly developed legal democracy. Today, for the first time in your speech at the opening of the autumn session and in the hope that it will continue to become a tradition, I would like to draw your attention to a number of issues that require a conceptual and relatively urgent solution. I would expect these issues to be really on the Saeima's agenda in substance, and after less than a year, at the closing session of the spring session, we could find together that these things will then be in order. Firstly, it is now a crucial moment for the organisation of media space, the introduction of a media governance model and a financial support system in accordance with the principles of democracy and efficiency. You can't stay here any longer. The provision of a well-functioning media space is a constitutional task that the Constitution entrusts to the Saeima and the government. I would like to add that this is not only a question of democracy, but also a question of national security. Democracy in our country depends on a strong information space, so this must be a priority on the parliamentary and government agenda. In order to achieve transparent and good governance-based management of public media, it is necessary to move forward rapidly with the adoption of a new, special public media law. The law should have clearly defined mechanisms that promote the quality of public media, ensure their responsibility and ensure ongoing funding, regardless of the political situation in the country. The law should also contribute to the full participation of the public in the creation of public contracts. And in particular, so that public media can operate even to the extent of the past, it is necessary to provide compensation for their exit from the advertising market. Secondly, improvements are needed to promote active and innovative political parties. The funding of political parties from the state budget should be increased in order to reduce the dependence of political parties on private donors and their interests. Poorly funded and thus private-sponsored parties cost the state and taxpayers in general too much. The action plan of the Cabinet of Ministers provides for an amendment of the law in order to increase the state funding for political parties to the average level of the Baltic States, from which it is currently far behind and is almost 10 times smaller than in our two neighbouring countries. These funds, which are far from large at all levels of the budget, should already be earmarked for this budget. I believe that increasing the state funding for political parties to the level of Estonia and Lithuania will contribute to the development of democracy in Latvia. Organising the model of the party funding system, strengthening party responsibility towards the taxpayers, and at the same time reducing private sponsor support for the parties, and thus doubting the potential impact of this money, the public will increase support and confidence level for political parties. Political parties are a necessary component of democracy. Compulsory! Democracy is not possible without political parties. If a citizen wants to be politically active and influence the debate on the future of the country, we call on him to play an active role in politics, including in political parties. If young people show this desire, it is all the more welcome. Political parties have their place and a legitimate role in society. Thirdly, the Saeima and the government must work together to find solutions for the growth of higher education and science. We need to be able to create an excellent and forward-looking higher education system that promotes science, innovation and the economy. The goal to be achieved is clear to us all – it is necessary to raise the level of excellence of universities, increase the international competitiveness of Latvian universities, their teaching staff and graduates, and promote the increasing involvement of our scientists in international and European projects and scientific development. Education, science, innovation - all this is the foundation of the economy. By means of legislation, we need to resolve the issues of higher education and science management models and funding, as well as the link between research and education. At the same time, the promotion of human and social sciences is also essential, as these sciences have a very direct impact on our society's spiritual environment. Fourthly, complex solutions are needed to combat economic crimes. The solutions recently discussed and prepared by the government to combat crimes related to the financial world are necessary steps in the right direction. It is very important that the Saeima supports these proposals as soon as possible. At the same time, the Saeima should pay attention to the improvement of procedural laws so that it is not possible to delay the progress of proceedings, to drag the proceedings in the length. Such solutions are known; they only need to be implemented by law. The government and the Saeima should also pay serious attention to the provision and quality of investigations of law enforcement institutions. And, fifthly, as I mentioned earlier, it is necessary to support and strengthen the Saeima in its legislative work, so that the quality of the laws necessary for Latvian citizens today and the legislative work is aimed at the sustainability of the country. Instead, it would be appropriate to seriously consider setting up an independent national council. The Council of State could bring a modern and new level of quality directly to the legislative process. It would support the government and also the Saeima in preparing draft laws before their adoption - before their adoption! - helping to address the risks of anti-constitutionality and offering solutions for the country's sustainable development. It is essential that such an institution would be completely independent in the same way as the Constitutional Court and that its opinions would only be of a recommendive nature, because political responsibility always remains with the Saeima. However, the functioning of the Council of State would undoubtedly increase the level of rationality of the law and thus the quality of the law, which would benefit society as a whole. In order to facilitate discussions on the establishment of the State Council, let us look for an opportunity to work in joint conferences in the near future, where we could discuss the possible structure and functions of such an institution. I have only mentioned in today's speech a few, in my opinion, important and urgent issues which require the active involvement of the Saeima. The tasks of the Saeima are big: territorial reform, school reform, health reform, demographic issues, which urgently need to find a place on the political agenda; the issues of Diaspora and Remigration, and many other strategic tasks that society is waiting for from the Saeima to address. You know for yourself the list of big and small works that the Saeima is waiting for in this autumn period. Dear Members! This source of work should start with a timely adoption of the national budget. The coalition parties will have to find compromises so that the Saeima can discuss and adopt the budget in good time. My proposal would be until national holidays. The political maturity of the parties and their political culture will appear in their ability to find a common solution in the public interest. There will have to be a lot and a lot of intensive work. May we manage to do good works for Latvia together! Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U3	Honourable Members! Well, let's start this job! First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft decision “On the dismissal of Inta Zaļai, a judge of Riga Regional Court from the office of a judge”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft decision “On the dismissal of Sigita Ozola, a judge of Kurzeme district court from the office of a judge”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. We are on the agenda until the reports of the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance” be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Declaration of Residence” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law on the disposal of real estate for the installation of the state border band of the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Belarus presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Archive Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes to refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible as well as to the Legal Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Insolvency” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Road Traffic Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Declaration of Property Status and Undeclared Income of Natural Persons” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the State Cadastre of Real Estate” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ( Internoint.) (Laughter) Mrs. Schvekov, will you talk about 'or 'no'? ‘ Ljubova Švecova, a Member, has applied to speak against’.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U4	Okay. This proposal points to the impotence of the politicians of the ruling coalition; I am very sorry. The government ignores the recommendations of European Union experts on reducing poverty and exclusion in Latvia. European Commission experts have repeatedly pointed out to the government the need to transfer the tax burden to capital and property over a year from year to year. Especially property - which cannot be hidden and whose value must be calculated. Riches pay a much lower amount of tax than the poor. Reducing the tax burden on low-wage earners by transferring a higher tax burden on the wealth of property would ensure social equality. Latvia stands out among the EU countries with the highest levels of inequality among households. Social security cushions for the most vulnerable - the low-income - are not working effectively. In its 2019 report on Latvia, the European Commission also drew attention to the fact that "the level of inequality remains very high due to low redistribution in the tax and benefit system". The experts pointed out in particular that ‘in addition, the freezing of land and property cadastral values over time will reduce the share of real estate tax revenues in GDP’. The interim evaluation of the National Tax Policy Guidelines 2018-2021 states that the Ministry of Justice has failed to fulfil its task of improving the determination of tax base - cadastral value. The Ministry of Justice has also failed to fulfil the task of determining the permitted exceptions for the most valuable cadastral value zones, certain types of buildings, the use of groups of premises and the application of the burden from 2018. The Government and the Ministry of Justice, respectively, are not able to alleviate the tax burden on low-income recipients and do not transfer more tax to wealth property without delaying the problem of social inequality through the expansion of real estate tax. At the same time, it is also necessary to recall the promise made by the New Conservative Party before the elections, which is not being fulfilled again. I quote: “A reasonable primary housing for Latvian citizens - free of real estate tax.” Deferral of time points to the impotence of the New Conservative Party in addressing the problem of social justice: failure to comply with pre-election promises and experts' recommendations to transfer the tax burden to rich property. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U5	“About” applied to speak Member Krišjānis... The Member has therefore spoken against the handover of the draft law. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Feldmans: ‘Proposal for the Commission!’ ) Please turn on the microphone for Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U6	Hello! I propose that the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy be defined as a responsible committee, with no co-responsible commission or anything like that. ( FROM a faction: ‘ How exactly is that possible?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: How is this possible? ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U7	Colleagues, this is the proposal to refer the draft law to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, which states that it is the Commission responsible. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Cadastre of Real Estate” to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 42, for - 19, for - 22. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Documents” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Fertilizers” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law on the use of genetic resources presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Personal Documents” be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the State Border of the Republic of Latvia” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Railway Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Special Economic Zones of Latgale” be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Tax Application in Free Ports and Special Economic Zones” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, as well as the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Documents” submitted by the Member to the National Administration and Municipal Commission by Bondara, Iksten, Dūrišs, Ples and Bluke be referred to the National Administration and Municipal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Vjačeslav Dombrovskis has applied to speak against’.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U8	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear colleagues, I congratulate you all on the new autumn session! When I look at this draft law, I have a legitimate question: are some of our colleagues doing so much political tourism to exotic countries that they cannot be physically capable everywhere? While one country's embassy is preparing a visa for them, they urgently need to travel to another exotic country. And now, for this reason, we need to change the law so that these colleagues have another passport. So... What was that? Who wants to go to South Africa? And then could it be Israel at the same time? And it didn't work for him or for her. I am now looking at the list of applicants, and I think, what could that be? Marty, are you? No, no? ( Laughs) I'll get you, my colleague, from annotation. That's wonderful! ‘ In practice, situations often occur where the holder of a passport needs to send a visa, but at the same time has to travel to the country where the passport is required. In such a situation, the right of free movement shall be restricted.’ Horrible! I would like to ask the question 'Development/About!' : colleagues, who often experience such situations? Pensioners and people with disabilities who now, thanks to you, will have to pay twice as much for their retirement from Latvijas Pasts? Have you ever heard of the amount of pensions in our country? Or maybe it is: when traveling around Latgale during the summer, Mārtiņš Bondars realized that this is the main problem of Latgale person: his right to move freely is limited. While he is preparing a visa in South Africa, he needs to go to Israel. ( Laughs) Mārtiņš has been productively spending the summer and well understands the pain of his constituents, so to speak. I will remind you, my fellow Members, of your promises. Less than a year ago you promised to do the following within one year: programming and English for everyone. Let us also teach adults who want to do so free of charge. For all adults we will offer English learning free of charge. State-funded scholarships for studies at the best universities in the world. I was watching a video on Youtube today. That's... It is my colleague, Daniel Pavluts, who said: "In one year we will start these projects without reservations." Next, it is very good: "Latvian society is tired of the failure of government politicians. They have no dreams of the future of Latvia. They do not have a plan for Latvia’s development.” Now that dream and plan is a second passport for travel. This video is dated 2 September last year. This year has almost passed, and that's why, colleagues, we... I have questions for you: how many people in Latvia have you learned how to program? How many have you learned English? And how many young people have you sent to the best universities in the world with state-funded scholarships? So, until you can't answer these questions, please stop submitting us all sorts of... what is presented here and, please, focus on fulfilling your promises. Thank you. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U9	“About” Member Mārtiņš Bondars has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U10	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, I wanted to start by saying that the speech by Vjačeslav Dombrovskis, my colleague, surprised me. But I was not surprised! And you know why? Just like in sport, when the season begins, well... such a spring performance, right? This was also a spring performance from my colleague Dombrovskis. Imagine that he is talking about the fact that Members should have two passports because they are unable to get a visa somewhere. Members can already get two passports. We go to the relevant public authorities and get a second passport. Only Latvians have no such opportunity, Mr. Dombrovskis. Well, understand: if people could get these passports, they would pay for them themselves - by paying for them! Neither the state nor the taxpayers, but they will pay for it themselves and will get these two passports to be their security, their convenience, yes, and their capabilities. Well, why are we sitting here at all, not for human safety, convenience and opportunity, Mr. Dombrovskis? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “What people?” ) Great! Colleagues, I am calling for this bill to be passed on to the commissions and I very much hope that Mr Dombrovskis will change his mind as the session progresses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U11	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Documents of Persons” to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 37, against - 43, refraining from - 2. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Regulators of Public Services” be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Credit Register Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Go on. On own-initiative proposals submitted. The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima has submitted its own proposal – the draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 370 Latvian citizens’ collective application “ban on advertising of fast credit in the media and on the Internet””. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection. The draft decision is on the agenda of the sitting. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications has submitted the draft decision “On the way forward of the 11063 collective application of Latvian citizens “Ongoing glucose monitoring system will save children with diabetes from early complications”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal - the draft decision - on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection by Members. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. On the granting of leave. For unpaid leave granted to Member Uldis Budriks on 5 September this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Uldas Budriks requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 5 September this year. The Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision “On the dismissal of Inta Zaļais from the position of judge of Riga regional court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U12	Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 3 September, the draft decision on the dismissal of Inta Zaļaa, a judge of the Riga regional court, from the office of a judge was reviewed at his own wish due to reaching retirement age. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On 28 November 2014, the Judicial Qualification Board carried out an assessment of the professional activities of the judge Green, giving a positive opinion. The work of the judge has been evaluated with the award of the Ministry of Justice. In 2015, the judge Zaļaja was awarded the 2nd degree of recognition of the Ministry of Justice and Silver Fountain as an important contribution to the development of the judicial system of Latvia and to long-term and self-free work. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I invite Inta Green, a judge of the Riga Regional Court, to be released from office of a judge at his own wish from September 16, 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U13	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the dismissal of Inta Zaļa, a judge of Riga Regional Court from office of a judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 79, for - 2 and for - 1. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On the dismissal of Sigita Ozola, a judge of Kurzeme district court from the office of a judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U14	At the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 3 September, the draft decision “On the dismissal of Sigita Ozola, a judge of Kurzeme district court from the office of a judge” was reviewed for personal reasons. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I invite Sigita Ozola, the judge of Kurzeme district court, to be dismissed from office of a judge at his own wish from 23 September 2019. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U15	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the dismissal of Sigita Ozola, a judge of Kurzeme district court from the office of a judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. On the agenda - consideration of Members' requests. Requests received by Members. Honourable Members! The Saeima Presidium has received a request from Members Zarina, Agešina, Clementyeva, Tutina, Orlova, Krišana, Švekova, Klementyeva, Kucina and Ribakova, Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralf Nemiro, for the ongoing supervision of AS Latvenergo. The request shall be distributed and made available to all Members in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Saeima. The applicants have asked for a statement of reasons. On behalf of the applicants: Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U16	Hello, colleagues! Latvia's most valuable company, which belongs to all of us, the whole of Latvia's people, has remained without a council, without governance as a result of the action of the Ministry of Economics. In June, the Minister for Economic Affairs announced that he had taken this decision on the basis of an evaluation of the Service Report and made a decisive decision. As a result of this decisive decision, the Council was dissolved and a new Council was appointed. This new Council, which allegedly should have been better than the old Council, immediately declared that it was not operational and resigned. Even Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš considered this step of the Minister for Economic Affairs to be incompetent and inconceivable to good practice. Well, maybe it's... all consider, especially in the government, that such a statement has resolved the situation and is all right. We don't think so. The most valuable Latvian company has remained without a council. We do not know what decisions are currently being taken and what the objective was. That is the purpose of our request, which we want to find out. Why did the Minister for Economics make such a decision, even a harsh criticism of the head of government? Why did the Minister of Economics choose exactly a counsel in a place made redundant, who admitted at once that he was not able to do anything, and derisioned? What was the purpose of all this? What's going on now? What decisions are taken when this company is now under the direct supervision of the Ministry of Economics? Maybe there is something else to think about? For what we've heard, who was able to say... this information that the management of Latvenergo has made some suspicious transactions. Then we have the question: is all this happening, in fact, also not one major political deal with the most valuable company in the country, which belongs to the whole of Latvia, in order to make a second round of energy, which can cost us many and many millions? That is why we have tabled this request and we very much hope that the Minister for Economic Affairs will be able to answer these questions. In the summer when they were assigned to him, the Minister was not able to answer them either. So there will be a very interesting demand and perhaps a substance for many reflections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U17	Colleagues! The request shall be submitted to the Requesting Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima has received a request from Members Zarina, Agešina, Clementyeva, Tutina, Orlova, Svekova, Clementyeva, Krišana, Kucina and Ribakova to Minister for Economic Affairs Ralf Nemiro “For actions and transactions performed by the dissolved Latvenergo AS Board”. This request is also available to all Members. On behalf of the applicants: Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U18	So this is about this--one of the deals... This has happened with the use of Latvenergo. Information has been heard in the mass media that the Latvenergo Council has prepared and even made a decision about the transaction - to buy the shares of joint stock company Latvijas Gāze. What would it be important to understand? After electricity... Following the liberalisation of the gas market, there is no more monopoly on the gas market. There are several gas dealers there. ‘ Latvijas Gāze” has been divided. The infrastructure of strategic importance is separated from “Latvijas Gas”, i.e. transmission networks and Inčukalns gas storage. ‘ Latvijas Gāze is by nature the same trader as Latvenergo. So there is a question - why does Latvenergo want to buy “Latvijas Gas” shares? What is the reason for this if “Latvijas Gāze” is no longer the dominant trader in this market? It is the same trader as Latvenergo - a gas trader. ‘ Latvenergo has all the opportunities to do the same as “Latvijas Gāze”. Even more - for “Latvijas Gas” Latvenergo is one of the largest consumers, the largest consumer, which provides them with the largest business. Then what makes sense here that Latvenergo would buy Latvijas Gaze? We want to find out which official has decided that such a transaction should be carried out, which basis has been given to it, as has been assessed. Because there is reason to fear that the current scene is being implemented - similar to what was done with the shares of Conexus Baltic Grid when the shares were bought by the state at a price that is abnormally expensive. Perhaps the same thing is happening here. More than that. We want to find out from the Minister of Economics why, in general, the Minister of Economics, as Head of the Ministry of Economics, is responsible for the energy sector (this Ministry oversees Latvenergo!) has generally agreed to such a transaction if he has announced and insisted on the course that Latvia should give up gas. This means, on the one hand, that there is a political idea that we are closing this business here, locating, trying to reduce it as much as possible, but on the other hand, we are rushing to buy “Latvijas Gaze”, which depends on this business. Does it not look like a current scheme that “Latvijas Gas” shareholders are saved from a shrinking business, moving it to the shoulders of the country, to the shoulders of all taxpayers? Already in the summer, we wanted answers from the Minister for Economic Affairs. The Minister for Economics was unable to answer. So that this, my colleagues, will be another interesting request: much interesting information for reflection not only on the Saeima, but also on other institutions can be revealed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U19	We shall therefore also forward this request to the Requesting Commission. The Saeima Presidium has received a request from Members Zarina, Agešina, Cileviča, Urbanovich, Krišana, Kabanova, Ribakava, Rubika, Papules, Adamson, Svekova and Lochmel-Lounov to Prime Minister Artur Krišjānis Kariņš “On the expected substantial increase in the rates of provision of pensions, allowances and remuneration and related government actions”. On behalf of the applicants: Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U20	Yeah, colleagues. At the first meeting of his government, Krišjānis Kariņš, as Prime Minister, addressed the ministers of the government and said to the whole people of Latvia: “We will work together, listen to each other and support each other to achieve the three main goals of this government: to raise the welfare of the people, to ensure justice and the rule of law and to reduce inequality in society in all its manifestations. We will do it." More recently, Krišjānis Kariņš announced to the whole Latvian nation that the government has at its disposal as much money as it has never been in the history of Latvia. However, as we know, from next year “Latvijas Pasts” will increase more than twice the tariff for the provision of pensions, allowances and remuneration to Latvian pensioners, disabled people, the socially most vulnerable part of Latvian society. The fact that such an increase in tariffs would take place was known long ago. Because Latvijas Pasts terminated the contract with the State Social Insurance Agency and offered a new contract. So this fact has long been known. Publicly we know that the Minister for Welfare has said that she has applied to the government for compensation for these tariff increases. This request has not been supported by the government. Given the very recent support of the request for compensation for postal costs for more than six million press deliveries, the question is whether Krišjānis Kariņš has really spoken of the truth that he really cares for this social justice and that he will try to reduce inequalities in society in all its manifestations if he cannot find the money for these approximately 80 thousand pensioners, who should be about three times less than for postal deliveries. That is why we are asking Krišjānis Kariņš to explain. And we are convinced that this demand will force the government to act and to address the situation in line with the promises made to society. Or it will be another evidence of the hypocrisy and arrogance of existing power. I don't want to believe that Krišjānis Kariņš might deliberately act so badly, and I assume that these could simply be the consequences of haughtiness, neglect or incompetentness. Similar to what was done at the time, Krišjānis Kariņš presented to the government a draft law that laid the foundations for the OIC. All of us now have to pay dearly for this permissiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U21	The request shall be submitted to the Requesting Commission. We are on the agenda for the examination of draft laws. Draft law “On the Tenth Additional Protocol to the Constitution of the World Postal Union”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U22	President of the Saeima! Colleagues! See Draft Law No. 306/Lp13 “On the Tenth Additional Protocol to the Constitution of the World Postal Union” by which Latvia, as a member of the World Postal Union, ratifys the Ten Additional Protocol to the Constitution of the World Postal Union. No proposals for a second reading were received by the Foreign Affairs Commission. The Commission looked at and unanimously supported the draft legislation for the second reading. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U23	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on the Second, Final reading of the Second, Final Report of the Tenth Additional Protocol to the Constitution of the World Postal Union! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law on the Additional Protocol to the World Postal Convention, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U24	Colleagues, see Draft Law No. 307/Lp13 On the Additional Protocol to the World Postal Convention, drawn up with a view to the adoption and ratification of the Additional Protocol, as amended by the 2016 Convention and its Final Protocol. This Additional Protocol does not impose any new obligations on Latvia. No proposals for a second reading were received by the Foreign Affairs Commission. The Commission looked at and unanimously supported this draft law. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U25	Please call me! Let us vote on the draft law on the Second, Final, Reading Additional Protocol to the World Postal Convention! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law on the Second Additional Protocol to the General Rules of Procedure of the World Postal Union, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U26	And as the last in this package, we are looking at the bill No. 308/Lp13 On the Second Additional Protocol to the General Rules of Procedure of the World Postal Union, by which Latvia as a member of this Union meets the requirements and obligations set out in internationally accepted instruments in order to adopt and ratify the Second Additional Protocol to the General Rules of Procedure. No proposals were received from the Foreign Affairs Commission for the second reading. The Commission looked at and unanimously supported the draft law. On behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, please support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U27	Please call me! Let us vote on the draft law on the Second Additional Protocol to the General Rules of Procedure of the World Postal Union at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law on the Investment Protection Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U28	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, honourable Members, The Foreign Affairs Commission in its meeting before the second reading examined draft law No. 314/Lp13. No proposals for second reading were received. The draft law was unanimously approved by the Commission for the second, final, reading. I therefore call on the Members of the Saeima to vote in favour of this draft law at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U29	Please call me! Let us vote on the draft law on the Investment Protection Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part, at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to law on the prevention of conflict of interest in the activities of public officials”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juta Strike.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U30	Dear colleagues, I would remind you that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Public Officials” was approved at the first reading of the Saeima on 9 May this year”. I will also remind you that the draft law was passed on to the Legal Commission, taking into account that the draft law was intended to impose restrictions on members of the Saeima to receive remuneration by taking office in associations and foundations. Before examining the draft law in the Saeima at second reading, 10 proposals were evaluated by the Legal Commission and discussed at three sittings of the Legal Commission. Let me start with proposal 1. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Proposal 1 is the proposal of Member Romana Mondiņš, which provides that the member of the Saeima, member of the Cabinet of Ministers and the parliamentary secretary may also hold a post in a social enterprise - in addition to those posts which are allowed to be occupied by state senior officials in the second paragraph of Section 7 of the Law “On the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of State Officials”. The draft law was very wide - very wide! - discussions mainly due to the fact that at present it has not been assessed what the consequences may be if the other officials referred to in Article 7 of this Law are also allowed to combine their civil servant's position with that of a social enterprise. The Commission, as also reflected in the minutes of the Legal Commission, supported the Member's proposal, despite the concerns expressed about the potential risks of conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U31	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U32	No, I...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U33	Members want to have a debate. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Juta Stricky.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U34	Supporting the proposal to allow the appointment of a public official to be combined with a post in a social enterprise increases the opportunities for officials to combine posts. This is contrary to the aim of the law, which imposes stricter restrictions on the merger of posts on senior officials, preventing conflicts of interest. Given that work in a social enterprise is linked to the provision of social functions for marginalised citizens, it should be borne in mind that social enterprises are granted various tax incentives granted by the municipality and certain other advantages for commercial activities. If the law were to grant such an advantage, it would probably extend it to other public officials, such as municipal members. In such a case, officials violate the law because municipal members are unable to take decisions with respect to the undertakings in which they themselves hold office. Consequently, despite the objective of the law, and in support of the proposal of Mr Mandiņa, Members are opening up the opportunity for senior officials to find ways of circumventing conflicts of interest, restrictions on the law and gain additional benefits for themselves. In short, the debate was also about it (and our party highlighted it) that the draft laws were aimed at preventing conflicts of interest and also focusing more on MEPs working in the Saeima. This Money Proposal... The proposal by Member Moneynia will open the way for the management of an enterprise, which, although a social enterprise, is a commercial enterprise, and will, in addition to working in the Saeima, lead an economic activity, which will allow both for conflict of interest and will take a large part of the working time of the Member. That is why young Conservatives are calling for a 'no' vote on the Money proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U35	The name to Member Roman Money.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U36	Dear colleagues, However, I call for my proposal to be supported. I can't see any problems there and the consequences that Juta Strike has mentioned. In many Western European countries, let us say in Germany, it is allowed to combine a Member's office with a job not only in social enterprises but also in their family businesses, in many other businesses where they have previously worked, so as not to lose a connection with the previous job. This is just about social enterprises. And I don't see any problems if, let's take one of the owners of social enterprises in the next parliament, the people who have created social enterprises, entered the Latvian Parliament, defended the rights of people with disabilities here and many other social issues. So this is about social enterprises that cannot distribute profits. And, as we see from the next proposals, it will also not be possible to receive remuneration in the performance of these duties in a social enterprise. In essence, this will be voluntary work. Colleagues, maybe still... However, let us be more open so that, in our Parliament, too, Members who are going to get here in the future... There would probably be a need for a debate about the fact that people who come from a business environment that has set up family businesses could also combine the duties of a Member with those of their own... Responsibilities of the family undertaking. That is what happens in the German Parliament and other parliaments of Western European countries, and there is no problem there. The German economy is one of the strongest in Europe, and nothing has collapsed. What Mrs. Strike mentioned... Competent authorities should prevent conflicts of interest and should not allow corrupt transactions and other criminal activities. Thank you. Request to support my proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U37	The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U38	Good morning, colleagues! If we read the Social Company Law adopted by the previous Saeima... As a new, innovative form of business, we see very significant differences there from the ordinary companies governed by the Commercial Law, i.e. the social enterprise does not aim at making profits. As we found and accepted by KNAB representatives in several discussions in the Commission, the social enterprise is, in fact, a similar company. Consequently, our conclusion was that these restrictions on associations and social enterprises should be made in a similar way, since these forms of action are similar to those of both legal bodies. Consequently, I also call for support for the Roman Money proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U39	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U40	I would like to draw attention to the fact that a social enterprise has a specially created law - the Social Enterprise Law regulating its activities, and its small nuance, which distinguishes social enterprise from a common enterprise, is that the social enterprise does not make profit but accumulates it. However, the social enterprise has many different advantages over conventional enterprises. They have the possibility to receive various support from both the municipality and the state, including gifts from public persons. Public persons have the right to provide them with gifts without having to pay for them. This means that such an undertaking must be run in exactly the same way as a normal undertaking and that it consumes just as much time. And, knowing the nature of our people, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, if the profits are not taken out of dividends, the profits can be withdrawn from the company in other ways, even if they are set at an uncharacteristically high remuneration. I therefore believe that, just like ordinary companies, Members should not be allowed... give the opportunity to combine work in the Saeima with work in a private company. Let's stay with the previous order that a post can only be held in associations, foundations! I call on you to vote against this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U41	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U42	Good morning, persons who already have the right to the defence in criminal proceedings, and good morning, persons who will soon have the right to the defence in criminal proceedings! The issue of conflict of interest is directly related to the issue of the defence of the right in criminal proceedings. What I want to say is that the existing framework for the conflict of interest is actually contributing to corruption. It is a regulation that encourages negative selection of persons entering Parliament. Why? I will give you a few examples. We are talking about social enterprise today, and I will support the proposal by Roman Money. But... Just for comparison. We are talking about the fact that a conflict of interest will arise when a person works for a social enterprise free of charge. At the same time, the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest does not restrict the existence of real estate magnesite and speculate with real estate, as Krišjānis Kariņš family or Krišjānis Kariņš does. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Aldi does not release!” ) Another example. Another example! A staff member may not be a member of the Management Board. But, for example, the owner of a political business-related construction company may have an official. This is allowed by the law on conflict of interest. You might ask yourself, ‘ If a person is not on the board but will be the owner, he will no longer be interested in what happens in his company. ’ You want another example? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “We don’t want to!” ) Another example. Let us take a real example from life. The family elects a professional, mellorator of the sector. The problem is not that this person is in the Saeima, and the problem is not that this person has a specific profession. The problem is that the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest does not allow him to pursue his profession directly, while maintaining his quality. And say, please, how... Normal thinking people who have achieved something in their professions will want to come and work in Parliament at all if they are artificially forbidden to be on their own boards, for example? What can be worse for the state if a person is a member of the board of directors of a social enterprise? If a person continues to work in his profession? Why... Is that so? Another example. Doctors may practice their profession, lawyers or plumbers - may not. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neismiņš: “You are not a lawyer!” ) What is the difference? ( Internouncing call.) One might think that there is nothing in medicine, there is no corruption, there is no more corruption, for example, in repairing pots for a person with a relevant profession. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest is in fact a twofold one. And the proof is that this duality appears very precisely in our society. Do we not have corruption? We have a very high level of corruption. Do such restrictions then prohibit giving, taking... whether, by formal prohibition of giving, taking bribes or by formal prohibition of engaging in any activity? Of course not. In fact, we will reduce corruption by allowing people to work where they want to work, allowing them to make an official and legal profit in their professions as well. In this way, we would also like to have people with better education in Parliament, those with greater professional capacity in the sectors where they work. I would support even more: not only the Roman Money proposal that a person may work in a social enterprise, but also that he may receive legal, formal remuneration for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U43	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U44	Dear colleagues, I will call for support for this request from Member Money... demand - no, but a proposal. I'm sorry... Mrs. Strique, your suspicion of everything and... Well... This is not a good practice to ban everything. I understand very well that Mr Lemberg is a very bad example with all his associations and all his revenues. He's probably not the only one. But when we write laws to some people, we forget about the vast majority of society. I think it would only be good if as many Members as possible were involved with their family businesses, would work elsewhere, because it would enable us to keep our real relationship with real workers, people who have to comply with the laws and regulations that we ourselves have and who are often very absurd. I think you will not deny, Mrs Strike, that there have been people here in this house for decades who have lost their real connection with what is going on out on the street. I think these bans... I understand why they are made. But there is perhaps another way that we can do this against people who abuse associations or work in some companies... We should also think about those entrepreneurs who do not engage in politics precisely because of such future laws, because such laws promote the desire to circumvent them. Because, as previous speakers have already said, let us not be naive: if a person has entered politics from a business that is his private business, a family business, it will not be that he forgets about business the next day and does not think if? You are now just like Mr. Neighbours... Do you really think that he does not think about his “dog way”? He has just found some successful form of how to bypass the management of this particular “dog method”. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U45	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U46	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues! First of all, Mr Mandiņa's proposal. I will support it, but in fact not so much the substance of the proposal, the content of it, because I think it does not really change anything, but it does not change what Romans added... the idea that the owners and members of the board of family companies could not hide and continue to run their companies, being members of the Saeima, rather than pretending that their wives, cousins or neighbors are doing so. This is in favour of this amendment. I will abstain on the draft law as a whole because I am an interested party. I too am the Head of the Society. And that is what I will do every time: on any issue where I will be personally interested, I will abstain or not participate in the vote. I think that should be the case for everyone who gets into some kind of conflict of interest. By the way, it is also laid down in municipalities - that Members can do something, right? They are not forbidden to work. And only in the event that such a person decides at municipal sitting on a matter that affects his property or otherwise is, as he says, obliged not to take part in these votes. That would be just logical. I will remind you very briefly of Latvia's history. The sittings of the Saeima were held very often in the evenings - at 5 a.m., because in the day people worked - by lawyers, doctors and teachers. He worked in all other professions, did not leave his professional life, came here and decided. Of course, when a particular Member concerned an undertaking or an area that his undertaking represented, he abstained or did not take part in the vote. That was understandable. Just here again... its understanding of how we will achieve the result... Allow people to take up positions, but not to receive, as they say, a reward... A person who holds an essential position and does not receive remuneration would be exactly what he should look at most in terms of corruption. That is the fact that will contribute most to this. Those who want to get... bypassing this little garden that you will set in front of, they will do it with a hat swinging. Only we will not know who they are or how they are. This will be the fantastic result of all this fantastic idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U47	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U48	Mrs Strike, I would like to give an example of the real life of one of your very good friends and the person you are consulting. It's Artus Neighbours. Yes, “dog-to-dog” – a real company. A company with nominal Artuss Neimins not on the board; there are some friends or friends on the board... That was done historically when the Lord became a Member. And formally there is no conflict of interest. No formality, because the law does not prohibit it. But in normal circumstances... And there's no accusation here against my colleague about this kind of action... It is a law to prevent conflict of interest... Where it leads, and how it compels Artus Neighbours (Dep. Mr Strike: “Speak about the proposal!” ), e.g. to address... What can be done? What would be normal is to allow the Member in the company that he owns, too, not to pretend to be on the board... Let us stop pretending that in this way we are preventing some kind of conflict of interest! In fact, the conflict of interest is reduced at a time when there is transparency, when we see very precisely in which company the member is on the board, in which profession a member is employed, in which customers are served, from which customers receive a formal, legal fee. Not to hide behind somewhere! Corruption is formed by hiding, not by the public. And what you're offering is actually going deeper... The way of hiding is actually a source of corruption. If we look at all the construction schemes... All that comes out is proof that this is actually how your philosophy has grown it, not reduced it. Just hiding! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U49	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U50	Well, welcome all of you to the start of the autumn session! I am so happy to hear that, in principle, if you mention the word "neighbours" (and in this case - with the great "K"), then you are guaranteed - at least for every "Neighbourhood" - at least 100 times in Facebook. This is very important. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa’s intermediate call.) And here is completely forgetting the meaning of the law - what we wanted to do then. We are not talking about 1.7 million Latvians, we are talking about 100 Members and 13 Ministers... Parliament... Well, yeah, the members of the Cabinet of Ministers. That they, 113, may not be in the societies! There's two sitting here, Schmidt, Valainis... And Crause, huh? Three of us already have... Three... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa’s intermediate call.) I'm not the only Member... Linda Liepiņa, please control your emotions! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa: “Theme is talking! On the subject!’ ) I am not the only member who owns a company here in Latvia, the Saeima. There's more here. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “You’re not the only one who cheats?” ) But this is one of the most famous. Thank you very good, very nice. Very good. Thank you for your attention. In any case, I think... I know, Roman, I understand the deepest thing you're trying... from German practice. We have talked about this. But in this case, we have a slightly different situation, and I agree with you that it is the normal thing that a person can work in his company, that he remains connected to what he has done before. But we have a lot of exceptions. In this case, this exception is only good. This would be the first step towards controlling this measure in some way for members working in local authorities too. This would be the first step forward. And then go to the municipalities. In this case, we are talking... In this case, we are talking specifically about associations. What is the social enterprise that Roman Money mentioned? I understand that there are 50 registrations, but there are only three. In any event, it extends the scope of that law. I think that is unnecessary. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “But how will you officially reveal Meroni?” ) Dear colleagues, please do not support this proposal. Let's leave the spirit of the law. If you are so married that someone will be so talented. — Dep. L. Liepiņa: “What means... “) and it is necessary for the state of Latvia here in Parliament, or at the Cabinet of Ministers, then, as Mr Levit said, we are the supreme decision-making power and can change any law any day, at any time of the day. Well, that's what it is, and let's do it! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa’s intermediate call.) Welcome to all of you with the new autumn Saeima session! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “But you are given Meroni legally or illegally? How is it?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U51	Dear colleagues, Members Latkovskis, Pavļuts, Pucens, Strīķe and Dombrava ask to continue the Saeima sitting without interruption until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Then we must vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of continuing the sitting of the Saeima without interruption until all items on the agenda have been put to the vote! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 75, for - 2 and for - 1. So let's go on with the Saeima sitting. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Janis Butan for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U52	You know, I have the feeling that some Members are in the wrong place, they have not realised that working here is a politician's job. It's not that close to something. ( UK Rounds.) The feeling is that some are a little detached from the ground and live somewhere else in a different reality. He is a little tired of hearing that a Member's salary is not a salary, that it can't survive, that a man needs to be one who earns much more than a Member. Well, you know, we don't have to come here! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Where do you get a salary, Butan?” ) You can place a Member’s mandate and go work and earn something more! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Where do you get a salary?” Medicines cause noise.) That's why these are... ( The box “Discard Your Wage! ”) ) To give up your salary. I work here as a politician, I work full-time work and I don't see an opportunity to connect work here and somewhere else! That's why I'm calling... If you are an honest politician and devote all your time to political action in order to improve the well-being of Latvia and not to work in your own interests, I invite you to vote against this proposal. ( UK Rounds.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U53	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U54	What I like about KUP! That's exactly what they said about themselves that they don't understand where they're going! (Applause) Depp. S. Riekstins: Ha-ha-ha! ) And also, by the way, artuss... “Artus” is written with a large letter, but “neighbours” both with a small one can write. But he speaks openly. And there's the problem we have here: if we're talking about a bill, where Neighbours very openly named three surnames - Schmidt, Valainis and Krauze - then it should have been written. We write the law... Valain's bill, Smith's bill... Because I completely agree with what Aldis Gobzems said. In this case, we do not see corruption mitigated to mitigate conflicts of interest... Then we had to talk differently and much more widely. And in this case, really, then, no Member should no longer be the holder of shares in any kind of SIA. Then we refuse, we're bald and poor here, come together, we also give up and sell all our properties! And then we will have nothing to talk about! But really this is more or less such a farce if. You too have many shareholders in your companies. Well logically - you think about them, logically, that you follow what is happening there, whether the company works with profit or minuses. And at the moment you realize that by your actions you can contribute to the company's profits... Well, I want to see if you're gonna do it or not. And then that conflict of interest emerges. And it should not be imagined that we are here, to say so, giving up our posts (formally or now, for example, without salary)... that we will not think about our companies! And that's why I think it was precisely those who have shares in companies that are in some way linked... that should have paid more attention here. Doesn't matter if they're private, alien, state... instead of talking about societies where it is not possible to distribute profits at all! This is actually just about three people.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U55	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U56	Dear colleagues, This is not about it - it is possible or not to work in a social enterprise. There's another question here. The prevention of conflicts of interest by law is based on the fact that a relevant post creates an opportunity for corruption and a conflict of interest as such. Not in office, but in office itself. I remember the debate that was in Parliament when it came to a very different issue, which is very closely linked to the subject under discussion. It was a question of who can and must not be a member of a municipality. CONSUMERS people probably remember the idea that employees working in a municipality cannot be members of a municipality, because presence on a Member's chair creates a conflict of interest a priori. And that is why we are actually talking about the concept of the law when we are discussing and supporting or not supporting the proposal in question here. It is not the act of acting as an official that creates a conflict, but rather of being in office. If we deviate from this principle, it is another law of salt. And maybe it's really time to think about the share of honest people in our society and whether or not we can give officials more opportunities to assess... not for being in office, but for this - they do something or not. This is also particularly important in the climate of recent events that are in our country and that have shown or are going to show that, here, there have been, there are and will be - and not only with us, but also around the world, and therefore also in other Member States of the European Union. I therefore say once again that, when voting on this proposal, we should consider whether we are in favour of the concept of the existing law or not. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U57	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U58	Mr Butan, when you speak out loud about the fact that a Member must receive a salary only in the Saeima, do not be twofold and start with yourself, because you are now receiving a salary at the Ministry of Transport if I am not mistaken. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “For there is a higher salary!” ) That is one. Second. Yesterday with the Member (Interdependence.) ... Well, yes, of course, because there's a higher salary. That is clear, and it is human. I understand. But then don't come here, and don't be moralized about the matter from the pub. Second. The other thing I want to say. With Mr Kučinska yesterday, we had such a strange situation in the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, because all the meetings of the Commission have been cancelled next week. Mr Kučinska and I are out of work because coalition Members are travelling, dealing with political tourism and something else. Kučinski and I will sit. There is no real thing to do, and then I would be happy to do something about a social enterprise or perhaps something else. I'm not gonna be allowed to do this right now. What's that? (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U59	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U60	Dear colleagues, Dear Saeima sterilizers - young Conservatives! When you wash your hands, you wash all your fingers, right? All 10. You don't leave one dirty. ( Interface: “The Middle One! ”) ) However, this draft law seems to have been a mistake for the sterilizers, because one person who has signed this draft law on a sterile environment, Mr Budriks, has unfortunately been punished for merging unauthorized positions - a violation of this law, which you want to talk about at the moment. So if we talk about a clean, sterile environment, then first think about yourself, honourable colleagues! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U61	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U62	Dear colleagues, I am a little surprised by such an active debate on a proposal that no one is actually discussing, because everyone has their own thoughts, their own perceptions. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that proposal 1 does not replace, replace, but expands the list. This bill was presented to prevent people from receiving wages in the Society. And, in principle, I think that if the applicants wanted to change the situation, they had every opportunity to offer a ban on joining posts in the Saeima, in ministers, in associations and foundations and in trade unions. But there is no such proposal. This was not presented at the very beginning, nor was it submitted at the second reading. So in principle, as far as I understood, out of the 100 Members, who perhaps not all are present today, no one proposed to ban Members from working in the Society. Is it good, or is it bad, but there is no proposal. But there is a proposal - given that it is possible to work in a society - to work in a trade union, too, to allow work in a social company. Where is the big problem? What is the story about? If there is pain that Members are working somewhere else, then this must be banned. Where are your proposals? There are no such proposals. Instead of discussing the issue, we are always hearing mutual insults, but it is not constructive. Colleagues, the basic idea of this bill is to ban the receipt of a second salary. And there will be proposals to make this happen. So my offer - 1st proposal to support, because there is no problem if a person... if one person is allowed to be in an association, work in an association, trade union... and if there are social enterprises, it is not a problem. It is also necessary to support a proposal which prohibits the receipt of a second salary. Then the problem will be resolved. I do not see any sense in the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U63	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U64	Hello! Good luck at work! Hence, there was no justification for John Butan to serve as a parliamentary secretary and as if it was another position. The essence of the parliamentary secretary is to be a representative of the Minister in the Saeima, and since Jānis Butan is a member of the Saeima, there is nothing more appropriate than the parliamentary secretary. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa’s intermediate call.) I also wish you, Mrs. Liepiņa, once to become Parliamentary Secretary. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa’s intermediate call.) But of course it depends on you, as you say, for all other skills. Next, with regard to the law, and also with regard to this proposal, it is clear that the problem in this proposal is that the number of hats below... with which a Member can juggle. The whole of the draft law is against the possibility of changing these hats, creating misunderstandings to the public and often to other Members and colleagues, when the Member, when speaking, for example, at a commission meeting, is not really clear which hat is really in his head at that time. Mr Valaiņš, for example, is a good example. I always have to mention: will he speak today as a Member or as a representative of the Association of the Great Cities of Latvia? Usually before I try to ask if he... Who is he today? That is the problem. I therefore cannot support the proposal made by Mr Mandiņa, because it seems to increase this possible number of caps. And we all know - SIA is SIA, and opportunities for profit accumulation, alternative ways to pay money and similar... Probably everyone who has some idea of accounting is aware of what I am talking about. Next, talking about it... in general on conflicts of interest. It is clear that when you come to the office of a Member, you have to understand that there will have to be some kind of sacrifice. Yeah. Perhaps I have already said this once. Wages may fall. Others are getting more salaries, others are getting more legal wages, others are paying more and more, others are the first stable jobs, such as the Saeima. That's good. That's good! But when I and my colleagues from the New Conservative Party were standing for the Saeima, we knew that we would have to bring some sacrifices. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzems: “Why does Butan get a higher salary in the Ministry of Transport?” ) And in this case - also with regard to entrepreneurship. That is why I, for example, support not only the fact that a member of the Saeima cannot be on the boards of companies where... Of course, I also immediately left all the positions of a member of the board... But I believe that if a member of the Saeima owns, for example, a majority of a SIA or a share in a public limited company, then taking into account the right to decide at the shareholders' or members' meetings, it is quite a valid reason to think that there might also be any conflict of interest at some point. Therefore, in order to avoid this, I am, for example, also freed from all my capital shares. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Did you overwrite your wife?” ) I invite you to do... By the way, no, I have not rewritten to my wife, and I call on other Members to do likewise, at least by reducing their share of the capital to one that does not provide a majority in some particular commercial companies. That would be just, as they say, honest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U65	Name to Member Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U66	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! We need more support for social entrepreneurship. In addition to financial support, officials should not be deprived of the possibility of operating in such undertakings. The aim of this social business, this form, is not to maximise earning but to eliminate poverty or any other social problem. Social enterprise can also be a school, and there are such in Latvia. Such an undertaking may employ persons with special needs. Work in social enterprises, societies and foundations – it is in the same foundation that invests its abilities, skills, knowledge and ideas in the creation of a better Latvia. And I believe that many of you also have abilities, skills, knowledge and ideas that you may not be able to realise in the Saeima, but to a lesser extent in a non-governmental organisation or social enterprise. I believe that this work can be combined with that of a Member and an official. This is not just a matter of earning. Only a few, working in societies and social enterprises, receive thousands of per month. This is not the case in most cases. I also share the view that there should not be certain bad examples, which, as has been said here, are examples of activities in professional associations, organisations or businesses, to be extended to the whole of society, to the entire non-governmental sector, to all social enterprises. I call on Members to visit and really get to know social enterprises such as the Wings of Hope in Sigulda or RB Cafe in Riga and see that this is not an easy job that people do without their money. This work is not selected massively... The people of Latvia. I think that officials should be allowed to operate in such companies and that, in future, managers of social enterprises should be allowed to become public officials. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U67	The name of Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U68	Hello! I am thrilled at the views that prevail in this space: we are all thieves, we are only acting in a self-interest, and we do not see beyond what is happening to us in the nose. We are unable to assess the situation. And in this case, I do not see support for the prison, because, by nature, it happens that the whole of Latvia should be limited by a single large, high fence, because the whole society (Insight.) They're thieves. Is that not the case? So I look forward to the proposals that we are building a fence instead of prison. Let us be like the Americans: let us stand apart from everyone! If we're already... then we must not be in the European Union and in a world where there are other values. When it comes to social enterprise, we have to make a distinction here... Yes, there are some uncertainties here. Yes, and people have no understanding. But the primary objective of a social enterprise is to ensure that people who have not already achieved this and who have not been given a gift... which have different types of problems... These companies ensure that these people are not demanding benefits but are able to provide themselves. Consequently, I believe that people who do so should be encouraged. If it is not paid for and voluntary, then it should be supported. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U69	The name is Sandy Riekstin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U70	Hello, colleagues! Have you had a good summer? All right, huh? I'm happy. You see, I tried to free myself even five days, because there was one dream to realize - to ride a motorcycle around Latvia. Unfortunately, it didn't work. The maximum was three days I could find free because I had to work. And not in associations, nowhere, the duties of a Member were to be fulfilled. I admire those who call here now to know something -- fences, prisons and something else. In what time can a Member who really wants to do his job in good faith still find an opportunity to work in some associations and similar foundations? I don't really know. I don't have this time. (Laughter) I... we all know that, unfortunately, at the moment... Loyalty to the parliament is... Keep going! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “If you can’t, it’s your problem! You don't have to judge by yourself, Riekstin!” ) Really?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U71	Don't talk to the grass! Continue the debate, please. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “You have to carry a card! There would be no cardboard to carry, there would be time!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U72	Are you done? Colleagues, I... We know ourselves that, at present, there is no confidence in Parliament. And this is one of the steps to show people that we will still focus on our core work, on the work of the politician, not in some societies, and unfortunately, but also in secretly receive money for it. We all know that. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U73	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Romann Money's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against - 11, it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U74	Proposal 2 is probably the only one that was not the subject of a debate within the Legal Commission. I would remind you that there were three sittings of the Legal Commission. Proposal 2 is a proposal from the Legal Commission. Date of Birth: a) 1 January 1966 b) 1 January 1966 c) 1 January 1966 c) 1 January 1966 d) 1 January 1966 d) 1 January 1966 d) 1 January 1966 d) 1 January 1966 d) 1 January 1966 d) 1 January 1966 d) 1 January 1966 d) 1 January 1966 d) 1 January The proposal was approved at the Commission meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U75	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U76	Proposal No 3 is the proposal of Member Julia Stepanenko. ( Internouncing call.) This implies that if a member of the Saeima connects his office with the office of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers or with a parliamentary secretary, he can only receive - only! - The Saeima's pay. I would remind you: the current regulation already provides for the right to receive only one salary, giving the individual the freedom to choose which remuneration from his post. The proposal of Commissioner Stepanenko was not supported at the Commission meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U77	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U78	Dear colleagues, Yes, it is a principle. And if we believe for a moment that the draft laws are not revanchists and that they are not those who are trying to introduce very bad practices in Parliament, then we could think that the draft laws are probably idealists who want to clear the Saeima from influence, want to keep the Saeima still clean, sterile from conflicts of interest. But what do we actually see? This proposal was not supported. I will explain to you the substance of this proposal. When a person is elected to the Saeima and becomes a member of the Saeima, he undertakes “to perform his duties in good faith and with the best consciousness”, he serves the public, his constituents. But when, after the coalition negotiations, he is offered, for example, a parliamentary secretary in a ministry, he has the right to choose what salary he will receive. And if he gets salary in the ministry, then in principle, colleagues, this is also a conflict of interest. Because at that point, the Member can no longer really identify himself as a Member - he serves the interests of the Ministry, he serves the executive power at 100 per cent, because he receives the salary in the executive power. Therefore, there are also various conflicts of interest: when different draft laws are being discussed in the Saeima commissions, here, in the Saeima, the parliamentary secretaries, as far as we have left him, vote in favour of the draft laws proposed by their Ministry. And that too, honourable colleagues, is a conflict of interest. Mr Butane, this is also true of you at the moment. You are, to my mind, the only parliamentary secretary left in this Saeima for now. I call on you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U79	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U80	Mr Butan, you should watch over the post of Parliamentary Secretary. We have two positions and rights of defence in criminal proceedings in the Saeima. It's not a good karma there in those positions. But what I want to say is that you, Mr. Butane, climbed here in the quarry and said that you should come to the Saeima and a serious face... and have to work on the Saeima's salary, but let us be honest! - you yourself have chosen the salary of the Parliamentary Secretary at the Ministry of Transport. Why? Because it's bigger, not smaller. So why didn't you stay on that Saeima Member's clan? The answer is very simple. And in this particular case, this is not about the size of the salary. I think it is a general lump of society that is proud of the fact that Members must get less or less, or very little. You don't have to be proud of someone who gets less or who is able to receive less. In fact, it must be quite the opposite - and not by trying to chart the post of parliamentary secretary with a higher salary, but by allowing him to work fairly, legally, in his private business or positions in which the officials are invited. Because it is verifiable, it is open and can all be seen in a transparent way. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Tell the guy who's a bank account... “ What I want to say. Mr Riekstins has been on the table here a moment ago and has pointed out that Members of the Saeima do not have much free time. Mr. Riekstin I understand. Mr Riekstins has the task of carrying the cardboard Jušas - to the sitting, from the sitting, by commissions. Mr. Riekstin does this every week. It is therefore clear that if such tasks are carried out in Parliament, there is no time left for anything else, Mr. Riekstins. That's it! But if you don't do stupid things, then let's be honest, the work of the Saeima is not the most demanding work, and anyone who has worked in the private sector will say that. Those who have worked in the private sector know what it means to do a lot of work, and they will also be honest about the fact that the work of the Saeima is not the most demanding. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Really?” ) Consequently, all these restrictions on conflict of interest are, in fact, one great duality. One very great duality that does not reduce corruption, but actually only increases it! And proof is for many years that we have not fought - Mrs. Strique, that we have not fought! - the cartels you're... in the city, it says that you have kept those cartels with Jurash and not combated them; that only Mr. Streames has started to fight them. And for that reason, I am calling for a serious face not to say that Members should not do anything else... And quietly, something they have to do... but better openness, and better allow Members to work fairly, openly and in other positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U81	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U82	Such a brief comment. In fact, there are already two as... two vectors. Either we allow everyone to do everything and we prevent conflicts from doing anything else, or we do nothing. Let's make them all the same. 100 Members of the Saeima, whatever they do yet, they all get exactly the same pay. Because, as I understand from colleagues in the UK, several who have said that they at least - and this should be the case for everyone else - are devoting all the time to politics and there is no longer any other time. If we all waste... I mean, maybe it's good... if we all spend all our time on politics and there is no more left for us, then I have a question: why do we even have a graduation between the number of Members of the Saeima or a member of the Bureau, the head of the commission or the deputy head of the commission? He can't work more than all his time. He also works all his time like any Member who works all his time. And then it would be interesting - who would like to chair the commissions? Maybe then, under the leadership of the commissions, there will be people who really see what to do in that commission, not just because in some, where we have a thousand or how there was... I don't know. Okay, that's a vector, too. That is also the solution. We determine that a member of the Saeima only receives a vote from a member of the Saeima. Then, of course, we will get to the point of how big it is and return to where we were all this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U83	Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U84	Hello, colleagues! Welcome to the autumn session! Very short. I would still like to reflect on what has been said here... such misgivings about the horrors at the moment when the parliamentary secretary of the Ministry whose remuneration, by the way, is different from that of a member of the Saeima... Well, in my case, with the dependants... EUR 228... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzems: “But this is one pension you steal for one pensioner!” Thank you very much. Yeah. It's not a little, I'll agree. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Do not steal?Oh, no, no, no, no, You filter what you're talking about!” ) Interesting claims, of course, about theft. However, this post is sufficiently responsible, as it is not only charged with being a Member of Parliament, which is primary, but also to ensure the work of the ministry and the link between Parliament and the ministry. And to do this, there are basically two full time loads. And I did my job exactly like that, I didn't complain about it. I also do not believe that this remuneration is small. But what is interesting? When a member of the Saeima, who is also a parliamentary secretary, chooses to receive remuneration at the Ministry, the remuneration planned for that member of the Saeima shall nevertheless remain in the budget of the Saeima. That, I think, shouldn't be the case. I believe that the parliamentary secretaries... In general, we could play the idea that they should only be Members and that the remuneration should be paid from the Saeima budget, not from the ministry. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U85	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U86	Yes, colleagues, we had discussions in the Legal Commission on this draft law from two points of view. The draft law applicants stressed that, first of all, they do not like the fact that Members receive salaries, salaries in various other bodies... except, of course, what I called, the ministry. The second problem highlighted by the draft law is precisely so (and we have not solved it) that the Member should take his own time for the parliamentary work of one hundred percent, 24/7. And what we have heard from Mrs Muižniece right now makes me really question her performance here as a Member of the Saeima. For this reason, Mrs. Muižniece can sit down and continue her important work in the Ministry (Dep. A. Muižniece: “No! Don’t hope!” ), but don’t come here and don’t complain that she has too much work to do. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Lejiņš: “She didn’t complain!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U87	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U88	No one was touching you behind your tongue, ma'am. You say here that you have to work in an insane way as a Member. If you have so much work to do, then I am sorry for the time when you are connecting those positions - the Member's office with the post of Parliamentary Secretary? Right at what time? If the work of the Member is so busy. That is first. Second... They are your 225 euros or as far as you said - this is a one-pensioner pension that you take away from the state budget for a pensioner. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Herbs-Gross intermediate call.) Secondly. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Herbs-Gross intermediate call.) Secondly. Why don't you save that fellow Member's voice? And maybe you should have been told, Mrs. Muižniece, that, in addition to this salary supplement, you also get... you are entitled to transport compensation, living compensation as Parliamentary Secretary... and so on. The same applies to Mr Butane. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Zālīte–Gross: “Discard compensation, Gobzem!” ) So that maybe a little less duality and perhaps a little more openness! Let us be honest! You receive your parliamentary secretary's office because there is more than the Saeima Member, not because there is less there than the Saeima Member. And these arguments that Members are too busy... If the Member were busy, you would not have time to be in the office of Parliamentary Secretaries. So that these lies too, please stop! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U89	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U90	The proposal of Member Stepanenko was not supported at the sitting of the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U91	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 34, against - 41, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U92	4. the proposer shall be the Legal Office. The proposal clarifies the rule on the prohibition of remuneration in editorial terms. It should be stressed that the broad debate on this proposal has turned into terminology, focusing on the words "remuneration" and "remuneration". The Commission did not support the use of the word ‘remuneration’, but supported the use of the word ‘remuneration’. The members of the Commission took the view that the term "remuneration" has a narrower scope than the term "remuneration". Legal Bureau... This proposal from the Legal Bureau at the meeting of the Commission was partly supported and included 5. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U93	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U94	Proposal 5 is a proposal from the Legal Commission. It prohibits a public official from receiving remuneration not only for his office in the association and foundation, but also in a social enterprise. The proposal was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U95	Members are in favour. Members want to have a debate. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U96	Honourable Members! This proposal, too, is actually in the direction of the lump-up of such a general public, with the aim, let us say, of boasting: whether there is no conflict of interest if a person is not paid. From a legal point of view, there is a small detail that needs to be highlighted. The fact of obtaining remuneration shall not in any way be related to a conflict of interest and may not be related to a conflict of interest. Get a salary - this does not mean a conflict of interest. Conflicts of interest shall mean the time at which a public official decides to the benefit of the person with whom that legal relationship is established. For example, a plumber is elected in the Saeima. What exactly can a bad state happen if a plumber, apologies, do his job on a daily basis and repair pots, and get paid for it? Is that in itself a conflict of interest? No, no! This is in itself the right of the plumber to maintain his professional skills (Dep. D. Schmidt: “If the Saeima were to fix the pots, then it would be!” )... and the Saeima also probably fix pots. But it is this person's professional right to maintain his professional capacity and legally receive payment for it. A conflict of interest occurs only when such a plumber has agreed to illegal acts in the repair of pots with the owner of the pot. And that's all. So now we're going to be proud that we're going to cut some pay and we're going to have a legally cleaner environment... I would like to set an example once again, and this is officially, legally verifiable: the Prime Minister of our country is officially allowed and carrying out economic activities. He is an economic operator. It is available on the State Revenue Service website. Everyone can look at this. He can speculate on real estate millions legitimately. And no one is talking about it that it is a conflict of interest. We are talking about the fact that the conflict of interest is to get the company to overtake the remuneration of the euro, which is easily verifiable. It is a complete and final absurdity. That is why I stress once again... Once again, I stress the idea that the fact of obtaining remuneration is not in itself and cannot be a situation of conflict of interest. This neither creates nor prevents conflicts of interest. That is why such a proposal is absurd in nature. It will not improve the legal environment... In fact, the corruption schemes in our country are only increasing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U97	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U98	5. - The legal commission's proposal. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U99	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - The Legal Commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About -63, against -6, abstaining from -6. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U100	6. Member Armands Krauze is the proposer. The proposal provides for further restrictions on income. More, more extensive income restrictions for senior state officials! The proposal made by the Member, Mr Krauze, was not supported at the meeting of the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U101	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U102	Yes, colleagues! It's a question, I think, of whether we're double or not. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Bondar: “First of all, what is “we”?” ) And do we really want to prevent these conflicts of interest or not. And if we assume that there is a terrible conflict of interest in the societies, which could pose significant risks to the state, local authorities and society as a whole, then I would also like to draw attention to other areas that are not violated by these amendments to the law. The law provides that Members will be able to continue combining their positions and receive salaries as teachers, as doctors, as creative workers, actors, as athletes. Okay. Maybe if one actor goes somewhere, God is with him! He's training here at the Saeima, and he's playing somewhere else. But (Military: “The actor is only one!” )... But let us look, for example, at medical staff! Working in a particular hospital, which is usually capital companies - state, local government, perhaps also private capital companies - and sitting in parallel here in the Saeima, and taking decisions on the allocation of appropriate state budget funds, amending relevant laws, whatever the area may have larger quotas, better conditions. It seems to me that a conflict of interests arises here most directly when making such a decision, because the result will be that this respected doctor (for example, we also have doctors who run commissions) will receive remuneration in this SIA. And this reward, of course, may vary depending on how well he has been lobbying his interests, the interests of the industry and the interests of the particular capital company here in the Saeima. We can also talk about universities. If a Member reads lectures, receives fees, it is once again about the transfer of budget resources to a particular university. I think it's the most direct way here... with regard to educational institutions, the various capital companies that provide medical services - hospitals, doctorates - create a conflict of interest for Members who make decisions, even when voting on the budget. That is why I urge you to approach this issue fairly. If we limit our associations, then we also limit the remaining opportunities to earn outside! I think the people of our country will only be happy if the doctors elected in the Saeima continue to work for four years free and provide free services to those poor people in need. There's going to be a row. So, colleagues, we're honest, we're not two-folded! And support my amendments.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U103	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U104	No, no... Well, yeah... I'll say a little more, but... Since we spend all the time, absolutely all the time, on politics and the work of the Saeima (all the time!) In time, then, may we still be doctors and teachers? I don't really understand. This is particularly true of teachers. Even summer holidays coincide with teachers! We cannot replace them! For doctors - well, in night shifts, yeah, but then... then comes tired to the Saeima. How's it going to work? Or, how will it be treated if he devotes himself to the work of the politician all the time? So for me, the question is, what are they going to do for the treatment? I don't even... I think it's even more terrible to think of teachers who have always dedicated themselves here when they had to be trained, but if they owe them debt, they won't have spent all the time here. And then they're going to teach their students? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U105	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U106	Didzis, in principle, got me some part of that idea... and I now have to borrow a few words. But about athletes or artists - the same thing. As we know, the Olympic Games must be prepared quite seriously. I would like to see a Member of the Saeima who is preparing for the Olympic Games if he has to work at the Saeima all the time. Or proof that this actor's work doesn't particularly smell when you're in politics. Because you have to work all the time, you have to run commissions all the time, you have to go on business trips somewhere... to distant countries, preferably, because there are several needed passports. There... (Laughter) You really have to work there all the time, Didy, I totally agree with you. But by nature there is no logic. There is no logic that we have some chosen profession where you may be, where you may be, you may receive a salary, and there are those where you must not be and do something. You can do business, but on the other hand, you can't be on the board in your company and so on. It's hypocrisy. I think that hypocrisy is already taught to those who support hypocrisy. They're already... I don't know, since school time... or have had a mother's milk, because it must have been taught - if you are hypocritical, then you will be loved and respected; but if you speak the way it is, then you will have to be afraid of some kind of sanctions, because truth usually doesn't like it. And there's only two roads here, either... and I also fully agree... Members prohibit anything completely else (but then, in such a scenario, I believe that the quality of our Saeima's work will go even further and will want to become even less qualified persons as Members of the Saeima) or, secondly, allow it to be done, as is the case in a normal, developed world, that people can work in their professions, that they can continue to improve themselves. And then there will be no situation that the parliament is blaming about - that the Saeima is taken away from the people. But how will it not be disfellowshipped from the people if a Member refuses to do everything? If the only thing he can do is to drive political tourism travel all summer for public money... instead of working in his profession on evenings or holidays, or outside the working hours of the Saeima sittings, rather than in the day-to-day process in which each member of society is present. That's exactly the moment it's getting away. How does corruption develop? We're hugely big here... Mr Feldman, for example, said: “I have given up everything and I am therefore much fairer.” In fact, there is a much greater suspicion on Mr Feldman: what then did he rewrite his company so suddenly? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Feldman: “Sell!” ) Probably a relative to formally perform... or to a friend to formally meet these requirements. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “The schemer!” ; dep. Feldman: “Good ideas!” ) In fact, corruption is being promoted in a situation where a Member cannot do anything else than being a Member. Corruption in this situation is being promoted. It is encouraged that Members do not become the most able in their professions... the most working people. That is why Mr Krauze's proposal is to be welcomed. Either we ban everyone, or we ban them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U107	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U108	Proposal 6 and this issue are being tripled. We've already gone... I hear here from a tribunal, from a gentleman who, in my opinion, eats punks that we're still talking about pots... We're coming in here... This is the culture here, from this pub... It's normal. But if we look at that, in principle, three people talk only about merging the positions of these Members. One is Schmidt. Valainis in principle, well, just quiet. Crause's talking a little bit. And then Gobzem, who's thrown out of the lawyer's office like a cork. Because he has deceived everyone. All of them! All of them! ( Interface: “On the proposal! ” ) For a long time. You won't have a job after that Saeima. ( UK Rounds.) What are you talking about? What are you making here all the time and you can get out of here all the time? (Applause) I'll bring you some baldrian pills and put you down so you can eat them every time you come here to make you calmer. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Members! Please, after this commission vote... Juta Strike didn't support it here, did he? Do not support, please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U109	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U110	I heard in the city rumors that from next week Artus Kaimiņš would approach the prison much closer. (Laughter) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U111	On the proposal, Mr Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U112	For all those statements that did not meet his promises. And, therefore, in this context, it should also be pointed out that the substance of this proposal is a direct reflection of those corruption issues which, from next week's point of view, will also bring Artuss Neimins closer to prison. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U113	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U114	Given that the debate often goes very far from the proposal and the draft law, I consider it my duty to recall that 6. - The motion of Member Armands Krauze - was not supported at the commission meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U115	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Member Krauze's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U116	Proposal No 7 is the proposal of Member Julia Stepanenko. This proposal also provides for wider restrictions on income for senior officials. The Legal Commission also held a wide-ranging debate on this proposal. The Commission's majority did not support Mr Stepanenko's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U117	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U118	Dear colleagues, Continuing with the votes on the proposals, we can make sure that this draft law is nothing other than revanchism and Kazivism. We will arrive until the date of entry into force, and then you will also see miracles. In general, we were also opposed to this draft law at first, and we also explained that you cannot - you cannot! - address associations, do not in any way cast a shadow of suspicion, a shadow of undue suspicion, to public organisations. But if you really want to wash your hands, leaving that one finger still dirty (Mr. Strique, we are talking about Mr. Budrik), then... So be consistent! Because KNAB representative... I will remind you of the minutes of the Commission meeting... When we asked her about the differences between religious organisations and trade unions from public organisations and whether there should be consistency in order to avoid resorting to one group alone, Mrs Alošina, representative of KNAB, pointed out that the situation in these areas is very similar and that these structures are in comparable circumstances. She pointed out that the financial criterion was confusing for religious organizations. In contrast to the origin of the financial resources of the association, which can be verified, it is not at all verifiable for these organisations. So I would ask the applicants once again: why are you so inconsistent in your decisions? I call on you to support... if you've opened this Pandora box, then go on, not with a certain different Member... Well, in principle, punishment!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U119	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U120	I, of course, fully support the proposal tabled by Julia Stepanenko, which once again highlights what this hypocrisy is between what can and cannot be done. And I have to give examples here. I just know an example myself, so I'll tell you. There is a “dog bag” Ltd. This SIA received funds from companies related to Meroni, such as Airtech. In order to withdraw these funds, Member Neimanis had to hire friends of his friend who did something and then go to ATMs to get 200 euros out of money. For that he has the KNAB process, where he is likely to be extradited for criminal prosecution in the near future. It forms that corruption. Such things consist of corruption, not restrictions on remuneration... legal, easily verifiable receipt of remuneration. What you are offering at the moment is that there is no remuneration in societies; in religious organizations - you may, in political parties - you may, somewhere else - you may. Again, we get to the double. Fight with small cheaters who try to chart their sponsor money through their own SIA and cash withdrawals from ATMs by friends. It must be combated, not by honest workers. And what's bad... exactly what's bad if the whole society knows that... Let's assume, Member Valainis works in such and such an organisation. Well, the public knows he works in such an organization. If he started to act, say, illegally, then it would be much easier to test. Does he then have to pretend that he, as a member of an organization, will not seek to act in the interests of that organization? All of us here are acting in some interest. In total, all the laws that we adopt are adopted - including in our own interests - not in the interests of some mystical society. We are, after all, voting in favour of our country. For the laws that we have to obey. In essence, we are in every vote in a conflict of interest. The question is, therefore, how to catch possible corruptpants, and we cannot catch potential corruptpants by graduating that in societies - there's a bad thing... For example, in a charity society there are bad ones, but for example, in a religious organization there are good ones in the sect. And that's the spirit of all the topics. That is the absurdity that we also wanted to shine on, that the conflict of interest... don't regulate, Artus Neighbours, such cases as are in your practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U121	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U122	8 / 8 - The Member's Armand Krauze's proposal. It was intended to prohibit a member of the Cabinet of Ministers and a parliamentary secretary of the Ministry from taking up his post if criminal prosecution had been initiated in respect of him. The Commission did not support this Member's proposal for Krauze and did not, in fact, have a wide-ranging debate, as it has nothing to do with the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the activities of public officials. This Regulation (Interfaces: Ooo!) )... This regulation - this is a ban on office - is set out in the parliamentary order. The parliamentary order roll is currently under discussion in the Legal Commission, and in essence the issue is to be debated and discussed in the parliamentary order roll, not in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U123	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U124	I think that my proposal has the most direct connection with this law. I understand, of course, that Mrs. Jutta does not want... because it also has the most direct connection with the New Conservative Group, where suspects of serious crimes... it simply works when he is prosecuted, moves to the Ministry as Parliamentary Secretary. There's no... there is no possibility for the parliamentary secretary to influence political and other processes in the ministry. Think about this: the Parliamentary Secretary in the Ministry is the second highest official after the Minister. Two political officials are there. And Jurash is now in the ministry, which is actually responsible for his process as a whole, for what's going on, if? And now I want to ask the question: does the new conservative party really have justice only in words, not in deeds, and you are doing quite differently? On that principle, don't look at my works, but listen to my words. I think that it cannot be allowed to hold positions - so high positions - for those against whom prosecution has been initiated. And this example of a Member of the New Conservative Party, who is suspected of serious crimes and against whom prosecution has been initiated, is, on the part of the New Conservative Party, simply nihilism, cynicism with regard to the rule of law in our country. That's what we're going to do only in the bog, and there's no rule of law here. Here will rather be the authoritarian regime of the New Conservative Party after a while if we continue to do so.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U125	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U126	I just have one question - interesting, which the parliamentary secretary of the Ministry will soon be Artus Kaimiņš (Laughter) In view of any historical events? But if we are talking about the case of Jušas or Zakatistov, it is a classic example. They can't be in the Saeima. In the Saeima, they would receive half of the Member's salary, but in the Parliamentary Secretary's capacity they would receive the full salary and in addition participate in the relevant process. And that is not acceptable. That is not acceptable! You voted, you were also one of the most active supporters of the post of President of Latvia, the President of Latvia who has been speaking today from the Tribunal. CIP and CPV LV! Our President of Latvia, by the way, said in his first address that in our country everything that interferes with the rule of law should be wiped off with a slot. All this should be wiped out! Legality is hampered by the fact that persons who are actually in a position to be tried in criminal proceedings are present in the positions of parliamentary secretaries - Jušas un Zakaitistovs. At least for that time, at least for that time! - as long as the relevant process is in progress. Because no developed democracy - no self-respecting developed democracy! - a person who has such a status in criminal proceedings does not hold the second highest political position as it degrades the state. This shows our country as a small banana republic in international eyes. ( Internouncing call.) And the question is not whether Yuszs is guilty or not. The question is a principled position. If he proves his integrity, we will likely get up and applaud. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “Let’s go!” ; dep. S. Riekstins: “Come!” ) But now you are harming our country by doing this, plus paying more for it than the Saeima's remuneration... which is taken away from teachers, pensioners and all those who do not have enough money. That's enough for Yusch, that's enough for Zakaistov. Neighbours will soon also have a parliamentary secretary. ( Internouncing call.) But this has to change. This must change. There must be no such attitude. You promised the rule of law! Then be a model. Now don't try to lupenize the whole society. It has been a long time since proved that those societies that are trying to lupenate will not develop, they do not become rich. The rich are becoming wise, educated, developed societies, not those who are trying to manage the arguments put forward by those who are unable to come up with any coherent proposal or text. Who can tell serious eyes from the platform that we are fulfilling our promises despite the fact that we are not doing so. There are countless examples in the book. Do not be this example. Be much better! Be an example of what you want to be proud of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U127	The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U128	Hello, colleagues! We seem to be living under the declared uncompromising leadership of the coalition of the rule of law, and, as the uncompromising rule of law stands out to us, you made a declaration by the government. Started with a letter from the Minister of Justice to foreign embassies about what is happening in our country. Instead of really doing anything, he complained to the enthroned, the 13 embassies, about how bad we live in a bad country. Go on. I never... 20 years ago, we would not think that we could discuss the fact that those accused of serious crimes can work as parliamentary secretaries. Politicians at that time did not even think of it in the 1990s. I went through our legislation with the lawyers. It turns out it's not a conflict of interest. He may not be a Member, but a suspect of serious crimes can work, participate in legislative work and so on. In financial crimes, the suspected Mr Zakatistov can, for some reason, work as Parliamentary Secretary in the Ministry of Finance. Well, logic already suggests that it is final absurd. The budget and financial (tax) commission can be managed by a person from whom two million are brought to court for his act or omission during the times of “Latvijas Krājbanka”. You know, I was surprised... When we wanted commissions, I was surprised that a person who was called 12 times in the previous Saeima was elected by the Commission for Mandate, Ethics, and Application (Dep. A. Neighbours: “ Thirteen! Thirteen!’ )... See, I've even made a mistake... Forgive me, Mr. Neighbour, I did not intend to name you, but I did. (A. Neighbourhood sub-scenario) ... A person who is called to account 13 times in the Saeima’s Mandate, Ethics and Application Commission suddenly determines the ethics and morals to be governed by Parliament and among Members. Does that mean that you have to get out and tell me who I am? That's the approach? I am forced to agree with what Mr Gobzem said: that all this law is aimed at promoting, to be honest, corruption rather than combating it. How, then, does this fight against corruption happen to us in reality? Let's assume in which municipality some "left" counsellor is engaged in competitions, makes a "left" contest, receives an appropriate fee. ( Interface: “In Riga! ”) ) Everyone is happy, but after a while someone comes to the same businessman from law enforcement institutions and says: Listen, you had the “left” competition here. It's got to be paid again! I hope very much that the events of recent days do not involve retaliation against individual politicians and persons associated with the political community due to the detention of the former management of the border guard, when a whole series of smuggling companies and smuggling schemes were abolished last year. We're talking about a lot of things. We are talking about security, as we must fight. At the same time, the border guard is without uniforms, without boots. Kinologists, despite my proposals... another five years ago... So far you have to go to the border for your money, keep the animals... And so on. The border guard's officer receives twice as much pay as the NBS, but in words we stand for security. Thank you to Mr Krauze for this proposal, and I call on my colleagues to support these proposals in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U129	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U130	These tears are saying: “How can it be? How can you do that? How you don't have a conscience! Why don't you listen to me? I come so often and I say... “ And John Adamson also rises up in the truce, and so he says. But John Adamson forgot to tell the new one, 13. Saeima - a parliamentary term that Jānis Adamsons receives a pension from the Kremlin. He forgot to say it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “You will forget to say that you receive scholarships from Meroni!” ) And John Adamson did not forget to say that 12. In the Saeima, Kaimiņš has been to the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application 13 times (he did not forget to say that!) , of which only twice he's got it like a rod. In this case, when we talk about this proposal, there is, in my opinion, a very simple thing: there will be a man - there will be a thing. Elementary! Let's go, let's go. I like the ZZS Rupor... Gobzem, you're in this case, Schmidt, you're in this case... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “And you, Meroni Ruppor?” ) But, Mr. Valaiņš, you also need to get up and come, do you understand? Lemberg will ask. And what do you say? What did Gobzem go for you? Do you understand? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Listen, you’re enjoying the last week of the Saeima before you leave?” ) Well, here we go! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “What about Meroni’s money? Last week is this or some more?’ ) Well, here's the level we're here. In any case, the Prime Minister of Moscow, meets here from the 13th floor. The family tells us about how it is right and how it is wrong. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem’s intermediate call.) And one's screaming again... Well, that's okay. Excuse me? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “No, you tell me about Meroni and Baltezer!” ) Thank you. Mr. Crause, hop!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U131	Name to Member Armand Kraus for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U132	Here we are talking about conflict of interest today. This proposal is directly related to a potential conflict of interest, but in the context of the whole draft law, however, I ask all of us to remember and remember one thing: that we should move forward with the lobby law. If we had a clear lobbies law and clear lobbies, then perhaps we would not have discussed these many issues here today.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U133	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U134	I will, however, call on my fellow Members, perhaps on his last sitting of the Saeima, to climb the platform and to tell you honestly what he was then talking about in the Baltezer's talks with those Meroni people... Gobby. ( Internouncing call.) Or... How was it then that the money was there or that relationship with Mr. Cinini when he was under the control of Meroni? ( Internouncing call.) This is a question that again points to duality. The person who lived in extreme poverty in the previous parliament has now washed up after the government has approved, talking about how he will fight against conflicts of interest. It's the man who shows this face of dullness. And that's all the law. That is the law. The law that is now being proposed to the public, saying that this is how we will now prevent corruption and so on. Look at the Member's neighbor! Since you've been in government... his standard of living has been washed, so he doesn't know where it comes from. From the “dog method” that provided advertising services in Meroni? ( Milestones.) Consequently, all these proposals that have been examined today have not been consistent with the interests of society as a whole, but with the interests of the narrow political groups, either to hate one or two people, and nothing more. These are proposals to hate, not to improve the legal environment in Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U135	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U136	Yeah. The Legal Commission... The Legal Commission clearly concluded that 8. - Member Armands Krauze's proposal - can neither be seen in this draft law, nor in the draft law “Amendments to the Archive Law”, nor in the Postal Law or in the draft law “On the alienation of real estate for the installation of the state border band of the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Belarus”. That's why! - the Commission did not support this Krauze proposal. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U137	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - Member Krauze's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 34, against - 46, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U138	Proposals 9 and 10 are interrelated. 9. is the proposal of Member Julia Stepanenko, and 10 is the proposal of the Legal Commission. They provide for the time when the law will enter into force in the transitional provisions of the law. Proposal No 9, which is the proposal of Julia Stepanenko, provided that the draft law would enter into force as far as 1 October 2022. 9. the proposal was not supported at the commission meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U139	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. ( Interface: “The next Saeima will begin in November! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U140	Dear colleagues, This vote will indeed prove whether the draft law-makers and those who support this idea are revanchists or not. For if you turn to your parliamentary colleagues who, if I don’t beg you, are at least 13, who receive a salary in the societies, by this draft law, (Intellect: “ Thirteen?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. “ It’s quite clear, then, that this Saeima really is not the right thing. My proposal (interim) is linked to the fact that specific rules limiting... not all the proposals that are in this draft law, but the specific norms that restrict the receipt of remuneration should not apply to this Saeima. I think that it is precisely the practice that has already been established in other parliaments that should not be dealt with by existing colleagues, at least in this draft law. But we'll see how you vote. I call on you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U141	The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U142	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw the Saeima's attention to the fact that the newly elected Saeima meets in accordance with Article 12 of the Satversme for the first sitting on the first Tuesday of November, when the mandate of the previous Saeima is also terminated. This means that the newly elected Saeima, 14. The Saeima shall meet on Tuesday, 1 November 2022 and not on Saturday, 1 October as indicated in the proposal. Consequently, this proposal, 9th, looks illogical and has not been fully developed. And that's why it's rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U143	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U144	We're talking here about a developed Nordic country... on the way to a developed Nordic country. I would like to remind you of one case in a Nordic country. One of our neighbouring countries, the Scandinavian country, was buying pampers with the name Freivalde in petroltank or at another shopping place because she had forgotten to take her bank card with her, and the next morning the money was returned to the country. She resigned for it! In our country, the second highest political officials are in criminal proceedings, in our country, a member of the Saeima is in criminal proceedings, and we are talking about the Nordic country! We are talking about an issue that is, in fact, a pure revanchism for particular people. And I can tell you, too, how this situation has developed historically. Historically, this situation emerged from the fact that Member Blumberg, who is not on the ground, wanted to avenge Member Digim Schmit and that some other Members wanted to avenge Member Valaini. This is a pre-eminence of these amendments: revanism, a desire to avenge rather than improving the legal environment. In the Nordic countries to which we are seeking, there are no parliamentary secretaries or Members with criminal proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U145	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U146	Colleagues, I do not know whether Mr Agešina is satisfied on 1 July 2020 and whether this is related to the parliamentary mandate, but it is more precise... Yes, one should leave office within a month. Therefore, this date has also been chosen. I call on you to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U147	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U148	Yeah. For Members to be clearer about this issue. Of course, the members of the Legal Commission are more aware of what the debate is about. The July Stepanenko proposal is aimed at the entry into force of this limitation on remuneration in associations, foundations on 1 October 2022. In discussing this proposal, the Legal Commission came to the conclusion that if there is any injustice, the law of innormality and its correction... are being corrected, then these amendments must enter into force as soon as possible and not wait for this wrong regulation to continue for another three years. Therefore, the Legal Commission developed and supported the 10th proposal that the law enters into force on 1 July 2020. And the date was set with the idea that persons would have enough time to give up their remuneration in the society. I don’t think it takes three years to write an application: “Please don’t pay me a salary.” Since in the Commission proposal 9 was not supported, but was supported by proposal 10.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U149	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U150	Proposal No 10 on the entry into force of the law on 1 July 2020. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U151	Members are in favour. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U152	So what? Are we voting?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U153	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of Public Officials”” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 71, for - 5, for - 7. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U154	The deadline for submitting proposals is September 19, 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U155	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 19 September this year. We have come to an examination of the own-initiative proposals. The draft decision – “On the way forward of the 10 370 Latvian citizens’ collective application “A ban on advertising fast credits in the media and on the Internet””. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U156	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, On June 10, 2019, the Saeima received a collective application from 10 370 Latvian citizens entitled “A ban on advertising of fast credit in the media and on the Internet”. On 19 and 20 June this year, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application of the Saeima examined an application calling for a ban on advertising "fast credits" in mass media and the Internet. On the basis of the information documents at its disposal, the Commission found that although on 1 July 2019 amendments to the Consumer Rights Protection Law, which set significant restrictions on consumer credit promotions, it is necessary to continue work on clarification of the Consumer Rights Protection Law norm in order to avoid any uncertainty in its application. The Commission unanimously decided to refer this Latvian citizens' initiative to the parliamentary Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission for further evaluation. Thus, on the basis of the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Section 131.5 of the Saeima's Rules of Procedure, the Commission prepared draft decision of the Saeima “On the way forward of the 10 370 Latvian citizens' collective application “ban on the advertising of fast loans in the media and on the Internet””. Please support the prepared draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U157	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 370 Latvian citizens’ collective application “banning the advertising of fast credit in the media and the Internet””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. The draft decision “On the way forward of the 11 063 collective application of Latvian citizens “Ongoing glucose monitoring system will save children with diabetes from early complications”. Member of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications Andris Skride.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U158	Hello, colleagues! Thus, on 14 June 2019, the Saeima received a collective application from 11 063 Latvian citizens, calling for a continuous glucose monitoring system for children with diabetes who have type 1 diabetes to save from early complications, and on 26 June 2019 the Saeima’s Mandates, Ethics and Application Commission examined a collective application calling for a continuous glucose monitoring system for children with type 1 diabetes. The Commission heard the applicants who pointed to the advantages and importance of this system in order to avoid complications caused by diabetes. The Commission unanimously supported this Latvian citizens' initiative and decided to refer it to the Social and Labour Commission of the Saeima for further evaluation. Thus, on the basis of the Rally of the Saeima, the committee prepared the draft decision of the Saeima “On the progress of the 11063 collective application of Latvian citizens “A continuous glucose monitoring system will save children with diabetes from early complications”” and please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U159	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the 11 063 collective application of Latvian citizens “Ongoing glucose monitoring system will save children with diabetes from early complications”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. Honourable Members! The agenda of the sitting has been examined. But you have to be informed of the questions put by Members. Members Zarins, Rubiks, Agešins, Kucins and Kabanovs have asked the question “On the inspections of OIC power plants implemented”. The name of the question to the Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U160	Colleagues! For almost a year, I had to sleep (I am sorry for the expression!) The Ministry of Economics with questions and requests to finally start real inspections of OIC stations. But the fact that they are now starting... being implemented and already being implemented for more than a year does not mean that there will be the necessary results. It is important what the results of these tests do further. And that is why we have prepared these Members' questions to find out how we are actually dealing with these inspections and what the Ministry of Economics is doing about the results of these inspections. Unfortunately, as we see from the information available, the Ministry of Economics does not react adequately. Moreover, it continues to cover real fraud, real irregularities. There are therefore these questions.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U161	The question shall be referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs. Members Zarins, Rubiks, Agešins, Kucins and Orlovs presented the question “On the Information Report of the Ministry of Economics on Possible Solutions to the Challenges of the Electricity Mandatory Procurement Component and Functions of Energy Policy”. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U162	There have been checks on connection schemes (we are now talking about other inspections), where the Ministry of Economics has stated that more than one third of the connection schemes do not meet the requirements. That's what this is about? For many years, the law has stipulated that merchants can sell only the part of electricity that is left over in compulsory procurement at the increased tariff... for self-consumption. On the other hand, since the Ministry of Economics has issued permits to sell all the electricity produced, many traders use it. In other words, they sell all their electricity at the increased tariff, but they buy the necessary electricity from another supplier cheaply by creating appropriate connection schemes. When I proved it more than a year ago, the Ministry of Economics urgently changed the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers so that it should not be verified before July this year. Now checks have been carried out, irregularities have been detected. The Ministry of Economy continues to cover them. That is what these questions are about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U163	The question is referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs. Members Agešins, Urbanovičs, Adamson, Rubiks and Tutin presented the question “On the reforms of the State Joint Stock Company “Latvian Railway”” that we submit to the Minister of Transport for reply. Members Zarins, Rubiks, Agešins, Klementjevs and Orlovs submitted the question “On the implementation of inspections of OIC power plant connection schemes”. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “I’m talking about it!” ) The word for motivation to the Member Ivars Zarins. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U164	As regards the verification of power plant schemes, the Ministry of Economy has found that in more than 130 plants these schemes do not meet the requirements, namely that self-consumption fraud is possible. To understand what it means to cheat with self-consumption: one station, which has only one megawatt installed electrical power or... They use and sell the full amount that the Ministry of Economics has allocated; we have to pay a million, about a million, euros over the year. Self-consumption for such a station can be about 20 percent. That's 200,000 a year. If this station has not been tested for 10 years, you can calculate for yourself how much one such case costs, how much we have overpaid... 130 stations. The installed capacity there is much larger than one megawatt. What did the Ministry of Economics do? Instead of responding to these cases to submit all these cases to the State Police for possible fraud in particular large amounts, it said: “You guys, we give you another month. Try to hide these violations.” There are questions about this. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U165	The question shall be referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs. Members Cabanov, Rubiks, Adamson, Zarins, Clementyev and Ribakov presented the question “On minority schools”. The word for motivation to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U166	Madam President, Dear Members, Latvian minority schools have a great and worthy history. This year it is 230 years since the foundation of the first Riga Russian school - Katrina school. During the Latvian Free State, Belarusian schools developed especially, which were fought by the Latvian Minister of Education Jānis Rainis. (The intermediate saying, "Not John Rainis, but Rainis!" ) Unfortunately, during the previous parliamentary term, politician Shadurski introduced, in my opinion, a dubious and erroneous reform of minority schools. As a result, the new school year has been in crisis in these schools. Teachers, students and parents are under stress. Our Members have prepared questions for Minister Šuplinska, and we expect a meaningful, not formal, response from her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U167	The question is therefore referred to the Minister for Education and Science. The Members Papule, Adamson, Zarins, Švecova, Goldberga and Lochmele–Lunova submitted the question “On the introduction of the new content of teaching”, which we submit to the Minister of Education and Science. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Time for notifications. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U168	Immediately here, in the voting room, there will be a group of non-attached Members. Please all who are not fractions... I invite you to participate in the formation of the group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U169	The name of Member Juta Stricky.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U170	On the basis of the previous statement, then half-united, in 20 minutes, Saeima... 20 minutes after the Saeima sitting, a working meeting in the Yellow House for Members who are members of the Group of Members for cooperation with the Lithuanian Parliament. We really need to talk about important issues. So that the members of the group... with the Lithuanian Parliament - half-united in the Yellow Hall.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U171	Colleagues! And now a very important statement. This summer our colleagues Anda Čakša, Dace Rukšāne–Ščipčinska and Evita Zālīte–Gross have celebrated their half-circles and round anniversary. We're saying hello to them. (Applause) Name for Maria Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, to report on the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U172	Not registered: Uldis Augulis, Dagmara Beitnere–Le Galla, Aldis Blumbergs, Uldis Budriks, Gundars Dauge, Inese Ikstena, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Janīna Kursīte, Ramona Petraviča, Juris Rancāns, Vita Anda Steela, Jānis Vitenbergs and Reinis Znotiņš. ( Interface: “Vitenberg is! ” ) Wittenberg is.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-05-PT13-2005-U173	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
