ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can start the 2019 winter session of the Saeima. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for changes to the agenda of the sitting and for it to include the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Taxes and Fees”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Members Sprūde, Stepanenko, Benhen-Beken, Liepaja, Gobzem and Petravič are asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Members Sprūde, Stepanenko, Benhena-Beken, Liepaja, Gobzem and Petraviča are asked to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance””. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. And the Commission for Education, Culture and Science is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendment to the law “On the State coat of arms of Latvia””. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? And that's it. ( Interface: ‘ Support! ’) ) Members are in favour. Thank you. The agenda has therefore been amended. The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. The agenda for the sitting will start to be examined. On the agenda, reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Water Management” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Corporate Income Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Lot and Gaming Tax and Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electricity Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pharmaceuticals” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Road Traffic Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Transport Energy Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections (Interfaces: "Yes! Yes!’ ) against... Are Members willing to vote? ( Interreferences from JPN and JPN LV: “Yes! Yes!’ ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law on transport energy to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the Commission responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 48, against - 28, refrains - 9. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Management of Public Shares and Capital Companies of Public Persons” presented by Member Indicicson, Dzintara, Jansons, Teirumnieks and Schnore be referred to the National, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ “A Member has applied to speak about” Ilze Indricksone. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U2	Good morning, honourable colleagues! ( Interface: “Good morning! ” ) The Bureau. We have submitted a draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance”. I call for support to be given to the commission responsible. The aim of this draft law is to introduce greater transparency within public limited-liability companies by bringing the requirements of these companies closer to those of listed companies. The amendments impose an obligation on capital companies to publish additional information to be made available to the public and to all interested parties on the remuneration of members of the Board and Board, meeting of shareholders of members, draft decisions and decisions of meetings, as well as foreseeable risk factors. Reports on compliance with corporate governance principles, prevention of conflicts of interest, anti-corruption policies, the composition of the boards and audit committees and the rules of these committees shall also be published periodically. The amendments also provide that, from 2020, the coordinating body, which is the focal point for the coordination of the Reconnaissances, should monitor the public disclosure requirements of the public limited liability companies of the State and of the large public persons disposed of, and thus of large municipal capital companies. With the entry into force of this amendment, more information on the activities of public limited liability companies would be available to the public. I call for support to be given to the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U3	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Housing Property Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Ljubova Švecova, a Member, has applied to speak against’.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U4	These amendments concern the administrative responsibility of the taxpayers concerned... transfer from Latvian Code of Administrative Violations to a special law “On Taxes and Fees”. It is part of a change in the policy of administrative penalties, decoding administrative liability. I believe that responsibility must exist, but it must exist not in special laws, but in one common code of administrative violations in Latvia. I believe that fragmentation of this type of administrative responsibility does not constitute a uniform and legal approach to administrative penalty policy, but is fragmented and leaves it opaque, incomprehensible and completely customer-oriented. And I believe that, in this case, it is also against the recent recommendations made by the OECD last year on improving the business environment and respect for the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U5	Thank you. So we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -69, against -4, refrains -17. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law ‘Amendment to the Law on Taxes and Fees’ presented by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the member Sprūde, Stepanenko, Benhen-Beken, Liepiņa, Gobzem and Petravičas refer the draft law on amendments to the Labour Law to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Karina Sprūde, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U6	Honourable Bureau and honourable Members! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that 1177 children were registered in the Register of Adoption of the Ministry of Welfare of the Republic of Latvia on 1 January 2019. According to the Ministry of Welfare of the Republic of Latvia, 127 children were adopted in the country in 2016, 83 children aged 3 to 18 were adopted and 119 children were adopted abroad; 127 were adopted in 2017, 93 children aged 3 to 18, 69 children were adopted in the country; 102 children were adopted in 2018, 70 children aged 3 to 18, 49 children were adopted in the country. Section 155, fifth paragraph, of the Labour Act states that ‘in a family that has adopted children under three years of age, one of the adoptors shall be granted 10 calendar days of leave’. No such leave shall be granted to adoptors in a family that has adopted a child between the ages of 3 and 18. Given that the entry of a child is a very important stage in life for all family members and that the entry of an adopted child requires special attention and care from adoptors regardless of the age of the adopted child, it is important to provide for equal support for all adoptors regardless of the age of the adopted child. The draft law provides for an extension of the number of persons entitled to leave to ensure that such leave is due to one of the parents of the adopted child, irrespective of the age of the adopted child. Qualitatively spent time with the child will help him to get into the family faster and strengthen family ties, and providing equal opportunities for adoptors, regardless of the age of the child, will encourage positive decision-making among potential adoptors. Please support the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U7	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the member Sprūde, Stepanenko, Benhen-Beken, Liepiņa, Gobzem and Petravičas refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U8	Dear colleagues, Thank you very much for your support for this idea. This draft law can be seen in conjunction with the Labour Act, as it provides an appropriate benefit for one of the parents who choose to adopt a child regardless of their age. Thus, this 10-day leave, as previously stipulated by the law, can be used within a period of six months from the entry into force of the court decision approving the adoption. And the only difference is that, in the future, on such paid leave, one of the parents, if we support this idea, will also be able to go if the adopted child's age exceeds three years at the time of adoption. Consequently, in order to receive such a benefit, there will be no limits on the age of the child. As already provided for by the law, this benefit is granted in the amount of 80 per cent of the average salary of the recipient of the benefit’s insurance contributions. According to our estimates, given the number of adoptives who adopted children over the last three years and the average wage in the country, such an initiative could cost the country around EUR 50 000 per year. These costs should not be high, but even if this initiative suddenly takes about about a thousand more money, it will only mean adopting more children in the country, and this will be a positive feature. I therefore call on you also to support this draft law and to move it forward without delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U9	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law submitted by the Education, Culture and Science Commission be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda - reports by the Saeima Bureau on its own motions. Dear colleagues, The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications has submitted its own proposal – draft decision “On a collective application of 13 898 Latvian citizens “Undo compensation for Members who have lost the parliamentary mandate!” the way forward.’ Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. Similarly, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications has submitted its own proposal – the draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 945 collective application of Latvian citizens “banning gambling medicinal products throughout the territory of Latvia””. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal in the agenda of today's sitting? None. So the draft decision is on the agenda of the sitting. On the granting of leave. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Honourable Members! The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Dace Melbārde to grant unpaid leave on 20 and 21 December 2018. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For granting unpaid leave to a Member Ivars Zarins from 15 January to 17 January this year. We must vote in favour of granting leave. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the granting of unpaid leave to the Member Ivars Zariņš from 15 to 17 January this year. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The leave has been granted. On the agenda - consideration of Members' requests. Requests received by Members. The Saeima Bureau has received a request from Member Jūlija Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Linda Liepiņa, Alda Gobzema, Didža Smita, Iveta Benhen-Beken, Erika Pucena, Jānis Vitenberga, Janina Kursīte and Ralfa Nemiro, Minister of Foreign Affairs Edgars Rinkēvičs on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' actions in relation to the UN Migration Pact and the UN Refugee Pact. Mr Aldis Gobzems will be speaking on behalf of the applicants to provide a motivation for the request. So the name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U10	Good morning! On the basis of the first paragraph of Rule 124 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, a request is submitted to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Edgars Rinkēvičs, for action by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the votes on the UN Migration Pact and the UN Refugee Pact. Mr. Rinkēvičs! The time when cushions for apples were provided in the back door - against the interests of society - or no decisions were made by the Saeima, has come to an end. The new policy means acting in the public interest, not in their own interests. If we remember... Article 59 of the Satversme provides that “ministers need the confidence of the Saeima and are responsible for their activities before the Saeima”. In this particular case, Latvia has a foreign policy implemented by the Saeima and not by foreign policy, which is the foreign policy of Edgars Rinkēvičs. The Saeima has clearly voted against the UN Pact on Migration and has clearly suggested to the Cabinet that all foreign policy courses related to these issues should be agreed by the Minister with Parliament. Mr Rinkēvičs, you have not done this once again, so I would remind you that, in the current situation, the times when you acted solely on behalf of the state against the public interest have come to an end. This is also the reason why such a request is made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U11	Thank you. Consequently, we shall refer the request to the Requesting Commission. On the agenda - Opinions of the Petitions Commission. Member Mārtiņš Bondara, Ata Zakatistova, Jura Pūce, Ramonas Petraviča, Gata Egliša, Mārtiņš Staķa, Daniela Pavluta, Marija Golubeva, Vitas Anda Steela, Arthur Tomas Pleša application to the Minister of Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola “On delaying the decision of the Minister of Finance to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Latvia of 16 November 2017 in the case No. 2016-16-01’. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Juris Puce, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U12	Good morning, dear colleagues! Good morning, Chairman of the Saeima! The Request Commission has received a request from 10 members of the Saeima to the Minister for Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola, who is in essence related to amendments to the Solidarity Tax Act. I would remind you that at the end of 2017 two judgments related to the norms of the Solidarity Tax Law were passed at the Constitutional Court. And in both of these judgments, part of the Solidarity Tax Act was found to be incompatible with the Constitution. I have to admit that a very important part! In particular, the rates set were found to be incompatible with the Constitution. And the Constitutional Court established an appropriate transitional period on the date of entry into force of its decision - until 1 January 2019. But in fact, the Cabinet of Ministers presented it to the Saeima... submitted a draft law to amend this case on 4 December 2018... more than a year of preparing a judgment... and, in addition, starting alignment with the institutions concerned only last year, October 2018,... This delay led in fact to the amendment of the Solidarity Tax Law within very tight deadlines. We all remember, fellow Members, at the last sitting last year... at one meeting, two readings, 10 minutes for the submission of proposals... And there was a situation that the Saeima had restrictions on the exercise of its legislative functions, ensuring that the discussion on the amendments to the tax law would be appropriate... Anticipating this in good time would allow for an assessment of the alternatives and alternative options to be offered. The request commission received a reply from the Ministry of Finance... a written reply to the request and examined that reply at its meeting on 2 January. Unfortunately, neither the Minister of Finance nor any other official of the Ministry of Finance, nor the Parliamentary Secretary, nor the representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, nor any official office, took part in the sitting. Therefore, in fact, the Request Commission had to satisfy the applicants’ hearing and reading of the written reply. The result - the Request Commission, voting in favour of seven and not a single Member, admitted that Members' request was admissible. The Request Commission calls for this request to be supported by the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U13	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U14	Madam President, Dear colleagues, honourable colleagues! Well, after Mr. Puce's comprehensive report, it is difficult to say anything, but this is still something that has... While studying at the Faculty of Physics and Mathematics of the University of Latvia, I was taught mathematical analysis by such a professor Bul, and he said that there are in essence three types of learning or knowledge. The first is the simplest: man - man. Well, the professor tells, and the student is able to ask questions. The professor answers. This is the simplest form of cognitive knowledge. The second is a bit more complicated: man - a book. You can read everything, but you won't ask a question to the book, can you? Well, that's it. And there's the third kind of knowledge: man, God. Man is God. It's up to you, isn't it? Starting with the wheel and ending with the evidence of mathematics theorems and so on. As Mr Pouce reported, we were, of course, expecting on 2 January. We were waiting for someone from the Ministry of Finance. Ms. Liepiņa, President of the Commission of Inquiry, repeatedly asked: "Is the Minister for Finance here? Has anyone from the Ministry of Finance come to tell us about the demand?” So we could do the simplest form of cognitive knowledge: a man is a man. It wasn't! There was no minister, no one in the ministry. The minister was not, because she had gone on vacation, Maris Kučinskis had given the Minister a vacation. But the minister has two “caps” – Dana Reizniece-Ozola is both the Minister of Finance and the Member of the Saeima. As you have seen, only Dace Melbārde and Ivars Zarins have just asked the Saeima for leave. Dana Reizniece-Ozola from January 2 to 4, when the Minister had a vacation in the Cabinet, as a Member, continued to work. You could have come here as a Member, wouldn't you? See... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. U. Plant intermediates.) And I'm glad Mr. Planty... I'm glad that Mr. Plantis is talking about something because he's talking about him! - was left to replace Dana Reizniece-Ozola. He could have come on January 2 too! Maybe Dana Reizniece-Ozola hadn't told Mr. Planty that he had to come? Mr Kučinska said at the time when his government was approved (January or February 2016): ‘The government must be a team!’ Well, where's the team spirit, Mr. Plantis, showing you didn't come to the minister's place on vacation? What's that?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. U. Plant: “Mr Bondara, you will not teach me what to do!” ) Do... Well, neither Minister nor Uldis Augulis came, but one of those super-rich ministers' office people could come! Yes, the Minister's office is paying a solidarity tax, and the solidarity tax is only paid by the super rich! Well, someone could've taken a champagne in the morning on January 2, because you need it, right? - Come to the Request Commission and tell us how it really was. ( Internouncing call.) Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ( Internouncing call.) Oh!... Learning in the United States was this (Military Calles: “Ooo! ” )... Learning in America was: You could have had perfect knowledge, but if you didn’t come to lectures (Interface: “Sorosist!” ), you couldn't get the highest mark. More! If you didn't come to a couple lectures, it could be that you're deducting from the course as a whole. Minister! I understand that you are not meeting your responsibilities - you can neither come nor send others to the committee meeting. You can order us, but because you fail to meet your responsibilities, it is time for us to end the minister! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U15	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U16	Good morning, colleagues! I am in favour of the substance of the request. The request was about the fact that the Ministry of Finance had not submitted amendments to the Solidarity Tax Law in due time in accordance with the judgement of the Constitutional Court. However, I would like to mention that this draft law was, in a way, also a draft budget. And the budget should still be designed for the new government. That's what you're... so we've all agreed together... At least that is the understanding here. But given that the formation of the new government, as we all see, is not going well, and we still do not have the new government, I think the Minister of Finance was very successful in dealing with this situation, and we already adopted the relevant amendments at the end of December, as the Constitutional Court had decided, and these errors were corrected. As a result, this request lost its substance at all. If this is just about it, then it is not really justified. The draft decision which was adopted. That was a strange decision concerning the solidarity tax. I don't know how we, the majority of the Saeima... It had to be respected, but... I think that the new Minister for Welfare, the Minister for Finance - irrespective of who will be in this post - will have to think very carefully about this. Because it's unacceptable: the situation that these big payers are now... We've taken them off the pension ceiling... and low wage earners who receive EUR 430 per month - these will be those who pay large pension beneficiaries... That is the proposal that you, the majority of the Saeima, supported. I call for this proposal not to be supported and for this matter to be reconsidered once again in the future, as it is really wrong in substance: we are merely increasing inequality: we are making the low-wage recipients pay for the high-wage recipients. And beneficiaries of high wages will be able to have 20-30 thousand euros of pensions. Is that what we really want? I don't think so. I call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U17	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U18	Good morning, Madam President of the Saeima and fellow Members. I would like to tell you a little bit about the process of adopting a solidarity tax, so that you can have the confidence that everything has been done correctly and in time, and considering the proposals put forward by the government to the Saeima. The solidarity tax was adopted in 2015, under the leadership of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Reira and Mr Asheraden, and indeed the tax was very controversial, because it was adopted, it can be said, at last minute, in the budget package. But it played a very important role or tasks: one, of course, to provide the financial resources needed for socially responsible measures in the 2016 budget at that time; one, to reduce inequalities. Because it was a time when it was understood that, given that the ceilings on social contributions were abolished in 2014,... It was then that the wealthier part of society paid lower taxes than the wealthier part. This is, of course, not the only element of progressivity, but it is very important. In 2016 and 2017, when working on the new tax policy, the government tried... And I thought it was more than enough to compensate... organise a wide-ranging debate with the social partners on solidarity tax, discuss whether such tax is necessary and, if so, what it should be. Various options were considered, for example: abolishing the solidarity tax by introducing a second-level social contribution ceiling... by limiting the short-term social costs for the beneficiaries of higher wages. But the collective decision - the decision of the government, the decision of the social partners and also the decision of the Saeima or the legislator - was to maintain the solidarity tax by changing it and providing part of its funding for health care, partly personal income tax and partly pension savings in public and private funds. In the end of 2017, there were indeed two such decisions of the Constitutional Court. One was initiated by 37 natural persons, the other by nine legal persons. There they challenged not only the rates, but generally the tax as such, the arrangements for payment, the subject of the tax. The Constitutional Court adopted two decisions which, in essence, said that solidarity tax was not a fault. The only problem is the rates - the fact that they are different because, at the beginning of the tax, compulsory national social security contributions, which are different depending on which social group you belong, were taken into account. But about the fact that this task was also not simple for the Constitutional Court, the fact that in both decisions several judges of the Constitutional Court had a different opinion on different aspects of decisions, and moreover sometimes even very controversial. And, of course, the government, the Ministry of Finance, when analysing these decisions and preparing its proposals on how to change the rate, took this analysis into account. A number of aspects of the work process, which I think should also be taken into account. The March 8, 2017, issue of the weekly letter “Journal of the Republic of Latvia” states that the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Court is not currently established in Latvia. And, in my opinion, this is a question worth thinking about, because the decision of the Constitutional Court provides in principle that the legislator or, in this case, the legislator - the Saeima - should resolve this issue in substance. All this year... more than a year ago, the government has also not received a delegation from the Saeima, from the legislator that something needs to be done. And if something needs to be done, what exactly needs to be done? I assume that if the delegation of the Saeima had been received, the government would have taken this into account when drawing up its proposals. In the absence of a legislative delegation, of course, the government itself, in this case, the Ministry of Finance, voluntarily included it in its task, realizing that it would have to be done and dealt with by someone, and it was also working on it. We have taken a number of aspects into account. Firstly, of course, the real analysis of solidarity taxpayers and the implementation of previous years' payments, which was available in March this year. Secondly, we also discussed with other ministries... It's very important that the Ministry of Welfare... State Social Insurance Agency. Thirdly, we analysed, of course, the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Fourthly, we also expected a ceiling on the social contributions planned by the Ministry of Welfare, which, of course, has a significant impact on solidarity taxpayers. Given that the solidarity tax was rapidly increased by several tens of percent, its number of payers decreased and these ceilings were in fact only adopted in November. And fifthly, of course, we also discussed with the social partners. The intention of this government, at least that of the Ministry of Finance, has not at any time been to abolish the solidarity tax or to make a significant change, because we promised the public that tax policy will not change substantially. And if someone asks me, do I feel my political responsibility for submitting such a bill and at this time... Yes, I feel completely responsible. And I feel that I have done everything in my best conscience, because, to be honest, if I had received the task that the Saeima voted for at the end of the Saeima - that the tax burden was lightened by three and a half thousand of the most prosperous members of society - I would hardly have made such a proposal from the Ministry of Finance. It still seems to me that the most appropriate solution was the one approved by the government, which affected only 250 people, while maintaining this tax burden for the rest of the wealthiest part of society. This is about content. About the process. Mr Bondara, I also think that the Saeima is not a resort where you can sit and do nothing, or a stage where you can put your hands in your pockets. I'm sorry I don't have pockets to put one hand in, to hit the other hand at the breast and to play the theater. It is necessary to work and the Saeima must also be able to make decisions. This issue was addressed at four meetings of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. And that is, in my opinion, one of the record numbers if we think about how much time is devoted to making individual decisions. Options and analyses were sufficiently well prepared, unless it was the intention of the Saeima to completely abolish the solidarity tax on the substance, which was seriously changed. The current government, and the previous Saeima too, would certainly not have that intention. Finally, in substance. It is no secret that the solidarity tax has been the apple of the dispute for a very long time, in fact since the first day of adoption, but not only because it was probably adopted more quickly than some of the public would want, but also because there has been a very strong lobby of very wealthy people - the "greek-doubters". They have tried to influence the previous governments, the previous ministers, the previous parliament, ready for some thousand of their revenue to actually demolish the government if it were necessary. And unfortunately, it seems that these "dividing ravines" still keep... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M. Bondars: “Call Surnames!” ) retains some influence over some political forces in this Saeima as well. Instead of saying clearly and clearly that we do not want a solidarity tax and we have promised someone to abolish it, trying to find various arguments why we cannot make a decision... Why should we have something else... Go out there - you don't know where, bring it - you don't know! Well, that's not the practice you have promised your constituents. That is a comment from me. For not being in the Saeima, I am, of course, sorry. This vacation was planned for a long time before. There was a break in the work of the Saeima, and at the end of the year I also informed the Saeima Commission that, unfortunately, I would not be able to attend the meeting myself. That is why a written reply to about 10 pages had already been prepared for the sitting so that Members could discuss the substance of the debate. And officials, if they are invited on next occasions, will of course be very happy to come and tell everything at expert level, and will certainly be happy to receive such a call. The demand is, of course, political. And the minister must be who should answer the questions. I really will continue... In any case, I have tried so far to be present wherever I are asked to respond to the substance and to discuss with Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U19	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U20	Good morning! I think the champions of good work have entered the frustration of a particular... or on a long vacation or looking at the public from a nine-storey house roof and spits on it. This is not a political demand, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Mr Augulis, Mr Kučinska and all the others elected from the ZZS in this Saeima! This is a request that the decision-making authority has submitted to the executive, and no matter what it is. And, excuse me, how many people work at the Ministry of Finance? Reizer-Ozola alone? It doesn’t matter whether she has one “cap” or two “ hats”. One - leave is granted, the other - leave is granted... How many employees are there in the Ministry of Finance who can come, even on 1 January, if there is a request, if there is a sitting? How many people came? Zero! How many older experts did you mention, Reizniece-Ozola? You know what? 64. You know at all, how many employees do you have? Maybe you don't know how many chapters you have, let's see? Because I think you could have sent at least one person from each chapter to a meeting of the Petitions Commission, where the newly elected parliament is asking for an answer, no matter what question. And there is no meeting of the Commission on Petitions where you have to talk about the particular solidarity tax - how many times you are on the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission or have dealt with it... It doesn't matter. What is important is that you simply show absolute indifference from your side as a minister or how, I don't know, one of the government's representatives... Mr Kučinski, you include, because if employees do not do their job, you have to regulate that they need to be where they need to be! You're in, that's a fact! I call for the new government to be approved as soon as possible so that such a wedding can no longer take place. That is what I call on the new Members... and also the National Association (Laughter) , The New Unity... Well, the rest of you got it, right? Please confirm this request.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U21	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U22	In contrast to my colleague, I call, of course, not to approve the Solvita Āboltiņa Government as soon as possible. But if we're talking about Dan Reizniece-Ozola, then... Similar to the question of Edgars Rinkēvičs and the question of why there is a foreign policy of Edgars Rinkēvičs and not the foreign policy of the Republic of Latvia, here is, by nature, one question, Dana, which is important. You have not understood one thing, and this is probably true of several ministers. The Minister is under the authority of Parliament, and it is organised in democracy. I ask you to read Article 59 of the Satversme, in which it is clear and clear that the Minister needs Parliament's trust and the Minister reports to Parliament. You too must account to Parliament when Parliament demands it, not when you want it. That is democracy! And that is also the new policy that needs to be put in place in this House. To ignore Parliament's request is not only disrespect for Parliament, but it is also disrespect for the people of Latvia! Mrs Reizniece-Ozola, if we are talking about content, about a solidarity tax, then I must also deal with issues relating to old or new policies. These are issues that should have been resolved for a long time and which we also talked about at the previous sitting of the Saeima. You too had to exempt small pension beneficiaries from tax for a long time (Dep. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “We did it! The most rapid increase in the non-negotiable minimum for pensions!” ), for a long time, you had to reduce taxes on small wages rather than delay the issue of solidarity tax for a year. That is why there was this parliamentary request, and that is why the Minister had to come or at least delegate to Parliament to account for what was and what was not done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U23	The name to Member Martin Bondar, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U24	As you heard, colleagues, everyone is guilty! John Reir is guilty because he accepted a solidarity tax... their controversial solidarity tax was adopted during John Reira's time. The Union of Greens and Farmers then... What are you! They were not even shot away from the government! It wasn't! It's okay that Dana Reizniece-Ozola was the Minister for Economics at that time. Ha-ha-ha! I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I (Laughter) Yeah, well, what's up yet? The Saeima was guilty, didn't give the assignment! The task was not to work with a solidarity tax. What was it at that Saeima? Was there no coalition of the Union of Greens/Farmers that led the government? What was the head of the coalition that came from the Union of Greens/Farmers? Couldn't you make a deal? Bad relationship with Mr. Kučinsky? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr. Reizniece-Ozola: “The old Saeima accepted... “ Horror! Horrible! Horror, Mrs. Reizniece-Ozola! And the new Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is still to blame! Four times they watched, people gathered there who don't understand anything! No one's got anything in there right now! Did you, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, not hear what we said - that we will resolve this issue under the new budget... within the framework? No one would have paid solidarity tax in January and February. ( Internouncing call.) One of the critical skills of the 21st century leader is the ability to work in the team. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. U. Plant: “You can’t even set up a government!” ) The search for the guilty describes the fact that there is no such team. It just doesn't! And, as I said in my first speech, it's time to end the minister! Thank you, Mrs. Dana Reizniece-Ozola, for your time in the Prime Minister's chair, but it is time to stop! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U25	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U26	The Bureau and honourable colleagues. This is not a meeting of the Petitions Commission. And, Mrs. Reizniece-Ozola, this debate should have been... they were supposed to be on 2 January - not here. Given that this is the gesture of Mrs Reizniece-Ozola and, more generally, of the entire outgoing government for the newly elected Members, that ministers may not appear, Parliament may not be able to respond, I call on you: please support this request! And I call for this debate to end, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U27	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Request Commission? No, no. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Mārtiņš Bondara, Ata Zakatistova, Jura Pūce, Ramonas Petraviča, Gata Egliša, Mārtiņš Staķis, Daniels Pavļuta, Marija Golubeva, Vitas Anda Steela and Arthur Tomas Plišs, the Minister of Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola “On the Delay of the Minister of Finance to Execute the Judgment of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Latvia of 16 November 2017 in the case No. 2016-16-01”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 59, for - 22, for - 9. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Take a vacation!” ) The request is accepted. On the agenda - request by Daniela Pavļuta, Jura Pūce, Andra Skrides, Daces Rukšāne-Ščipčinskas, Arthur Tomas Plesa, Vitas Anda Steel, Ilmars Dūris, Mārtiņš Staķis, Arta Pabriks and Inese Voika to the Minister of Health Anda Čakša “On the responsibility of the Minister of Health by introducing the Law on Health Financing and Access to Health Services for Citizens from 1 January 2019”. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Juris Puce, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U28	Dear colleagues, At its meeting on 2 January, the Panel dealt with another request made by 10 Members of the Saeima, which deals with an issue which is, in fact, very important and very important right now and which is also of political importance and has a very high level of responsibility towards citizens. Briefly, the substance of the request. In particular, at the end of 2017, the Health Care Financing Act was adopted, which provides for the introduction of so-called state compulsory health insurance. The Health Financing Act provides that health services are to be divided into so-called ‘service baskets’ available to citizens according to their different status as regards social security contributions. This law has an impact on the availability of health services and, of course, also poses risks to this issue. The request made by Members in December draws attention to the situation that, although the entry into force of this system of baskets was foreseen for January 2019, it was in fact impossible. At that time, it was suspected. Although the Minister and representatives of the Ministry repeatedly pointed out at the meeting of the Social and Labour Commission of the Saeima that January 1 will be able to cope with this situation, now, as we know, the situation has developed that in fact, the part of the Health Care Financing Act does not work on service baskets. The Health Minister attended the meeting of the Commission on 2 January and answered the questions in full, expressed his position. It must be acknowledged that the officials of the Ministry of Health said at the meeting of the Commission on 2 January that during January the service basket system will be able to start working. Yesterday and last night... A week has passed and the situation has already shifted to the end of February. But the Social and Labour Affairs Commission is currently working and will probably take decisions to ensure that the norms of the law are transposed at least in time to enter into force and to ensure compliance with the rule of law. At the moment, there is a situation where respect for the rule of law is not guaranteed without the state actually being in a position to enforce the law itself. The discussions in the committee meeting were active, but this topic is very important. As a result of the discussions, the Request Commission, voting by seven votes in favour and one vote against, recognised that this request was justified and admissible. The Request Commission therefore invites the Saeima to support this request today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U29	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Andris Flyre.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U30	Good morning, colleagues! Mr Pouce has already told us well the substance of the matter, and this request is in due course. We know that the promise was made in December - everything will work. In the last days of December, we saw that the system was not working, so in fact, society was misled. What was the next step by the Minister for Health? The next step was the search for the guilty. The search for the perpetrators was started at the National Health Service, but it may be necessary to remember that it is the fault that needs to be searched for. And it should also be remembered that the law was adopted more than a year ago. This is about a team. Let us also remember that this important sector was actually managed by Mr Kučinska from 22 December to 6 April, because the Minister for Health was on vacation. So an important sector seems to have been without leadership. It's the responsibility of all the team of good champs. I assume it was forgotten about this law... or memory is bad. But if there is a memory bad, you should go to a neurologist or eat curd more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U31	The name to Anda Chakša.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U32	Hello! Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, Thank you, Mr Skride, for reminding me about this holiday. 21 January continues, and indeed it was the happiest day in that year. I became my mother for the third time. My daughter was born, and I also wish you father's happiness. But beyond the demand. In fact, I think that we are on the same side of the barricades, because I am really glad that many who said during the pre-elections that the law should be abolished are now talking about its implementation. And this is a very important law. I am also shocked that because of the IT problems, the second stage of this law has not been able to enter into force from 1 January or - more precisely - has been delayed. And just like you, I also want clarity as to why this delay has taken place. But why do I call it the second stage? Because the first stage, which by its content, impact and weight is much, much more important, began already on 1 January 2018. And this first stage covered 97 percent of Latvian citizens who already make social contributions when working under the normal tax regime from 1 January 2018, plus an additional 21 group, which the country automatically provides. All these groups, plus these 97 percent of the Latvian population, receive the full amount of healthcare services from 1 January 2019. What did this law give us? Was that really important? What was its effect? This one percent shift to healthcare in 2018 amounted to 85 million. You too, Mr Skride, last year's salary, wage fund 30 per cent, thanks to this law. And these data on the rise in wages... It is not only from data from the National Health Service, but also from the media, when analysing hospital data, has been confirmed. Without this law, there would not be this increase in pay, and I do not know if we would talk about public health care today. But then, returning, of course, to the second stage... Yes, accurate data records have been delayed. And, I have to say, this is a very, very heavy project. Only a few of the institutions that had to connect to a single platform are under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. And in general, this data exchange... this platform is already in place, but the quality of data exchange still needs to be checked. Knowing the Ministry of Health's experience with e-health implementation... and I am not ashamed that we have drawn many IT projects forward to work. Today we can see that both the e-prescription and the disability page can be prescribed within a reasonable time and do not need to be sent to patients after the prescription. Likewise, this project will "be gone" in the next month. And it is important that all citizens are now able to receive healthcare. Yes, it must be recognised that the bonus is three per cent for those who have not made voluntary contributions: they have not made these contributions but may receive a full basket of services. What does society mean? If we look at the last survey on the confidence that the healthcare sector has gained, then we see that, starting with six points in 2016, 33.2 points have now been reached. So I think it's good that we have this law. And I acknowledge, of course, my responsibility for the fact that, as a doctor, I have not managed to be a very good IT manager, but this is a question that will be resolved in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U33	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U34	With the introduction of the Health Care Financing Law and accessibility of health services baskets to citizens from 1 January 2019, we once again met with the system in the Republic of Latvia... It's not the first time, it's the last... I hope that maybe the last... But in any case, not for the first time... This system is comparable to the train running when the rails are not yet ready. The train is already running, but we do not really know where it will be going, because there is simply no rail. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Riena: “We know that!” ) In my opinion, therefore, the laws of both the Parliament and the Cabinet of Ministers should be properly written and implemented, even though the drafters of these laws and regulations themselves understand what and to what extent the legislative act is regulated. Laws have to be written for people! The Health Care Financing Act has now led to a situation where people do not understand what the law regulates and to what extent. At the end of my speech on this issue, I would like to say that a project must not be introduced, even if it is not true whether and how it will work. Otherwise we face problems, as is already the case with e-health, which costs more than in our neighbourhood and so on. In my opinion, this is a question of working in the team, because if we were all together, the entire parliament, this health-care project would be implemented by negotiation, rather than by realising an individual idea, this health-care system would already have been improved many times. I therefore call for future innovations that affect society as a whole, but to be introduced on the principle that we first build rails and only then start a train. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U35	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U36	Hello! I have such things as, as you say, bad news for all so-called champions of good works and so on - you don't have to be IT managers, you just have to stop reshaping IT purchases. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Thank you. Thank you very much. You have probably heard that the system in question is being developed by 'ZZ Dates' - if I am not mistaken - for about six and a half million. Do you know who the biggest customers of this company are? Of course, without Ventspils City Council, Liepaja City Council, Jurmala City Council and Jelgava City Council? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “No!” ) Of course, Riga City Council (Laughter) Rēzekne City Council and Daugavpils City Council! Those Members who have come to this Saeima... elected directly from Riga City Council... Well, there's not a lot of them here... Fortunately, it gave us a very bright opportunity to get acquainted with IT systems at the Riga City Council. So, unless someone plans to schemate and steal money in IT purchases in the future... I warmly advise you not to use such a... to conclude such dubious transactions with a company that has discredited itself for many years in various large city procurements and IT systems managed with the help of SAVE... So what's managed by the SPIRIT and ZZS... Then you won't shoot yourself in the heel. That's it, well, just a recommendation. And then you won't have to come to the Saeima Tribute and regret that you're not IT managers: yes, sorry, sorry, I tried very hard, but for me those bad ITs somehow... they replaced me. I saw a press conference where you spoke, where you spoke... employees of the undertaking in question. Do you not see yourself as being unable to do so? Who then closed that purchase? It's not a parliament. Think about it! This is a warm recommendation for anyone who plans to chart for the future as well. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U37	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Request Commission? No, no. Please call me! We will vote for a Member Daniela Pavļuta, Jura Pūce, Andra Skrides, Daces Rukšāne-Ščipčinskas, Arthur Tomas Plesa, Vitas Anda Steel, Ilmars Dūriša, Mārtiņš Staķis, Arta Pabriks and Inese Voika, Minister of Health Anda Čakša “On the responsibility of the Minister of Health when implementing the Health Care Financing Law and Access to Health Services for Citizens from 1 January 2019”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 59, for - 24, for - 5. The request is accepted. On the agenda - replies of the Cabinet Members to Members' requests. The reply of the Minister for Economic Affairs to the request of Members of the Saeima ‘On the legality and legality of the State aid scheme for subsidised electricity implemented by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Economics’. The reply of the Minister for Economic Affairs to the request of Members of the Saeima ‘On the legality and legality of the State aid scheme for subsidised electricity implemented by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Economics’. The name is Arvil Asheraden, Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U38	Hello, colleagues! I thank you for having had the opportunity to talk about the OIC issues and also about the specific request, but before that, I would like to outline a little bit of the context of the problem, which seems important to me to understand the situation as a whole. Why are we talking about OIC at all? It must be said that this OIC saga actually has a very long history, which began in 1995. The main support for the electricity sector in the country started because of the country's economic independence and its energy independence. However, when it comes to the period since we joined the European Union, we have become part of a common energy policy, where the European Commission's Green Paper on a European strategy for sustainable, competitive and secure energy provides for an agreement that there is a common energy policy in the European Union. And this common energy policy in 2009 was crowned by the climate and energy package and the renewable energy targets of Directive 2009/28/EC, which also includes a binding green energy target for Latvia. That's what we have to do in 2020 to reach 40 percent... It has to be said that the European Union's policy does not, for any moment, foresee that in any way we are going to abandon this objective. And the Paris Agreement... Commitments related to the Paris Agreement... that followed in the European Union, it is expected that by 2030... provide for both ambitious green energy targets and a 40 % reduction in gas emissions compared to 2019. And so on, and so on. I would like to say that these green energy targets are binding on Latvia and will have to be met. And if Latvia fails to meet this target in 2020, Latvia will have a specific sanction mechanism. This will have to be done. If we look at the situation that developed, of course, we have to say that in 2009... The regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers adopted by the outgoing Godmanis government opened, to be honest, hell gates for this situation, and over the coming years 1000 permits were issued, and Latvia entered the list of countries that provide the greatest support for green energy in the next 10 years. And it's more only in Germany, Italy and Denmark. Overall, we see that this support has been more than one percent of GDP in 2016, or EUR 266 million per year. That was the situation that I received as an economic minister, and this government received this question as a solution. It has to be said that the government has acted with great responsibility over these years, significantly reducing the burden on OICs. On 8 March I spoke here in the Saeima with a substantial assessment, and I said: this mechanism, as Latvia has introduced the OIC, is a major macroeconomic error in Latvia. I invited the Prime Minister to support the appointment of a high-level working group, which was convened, and this working group drafted a whole series of... more than 12 proposals to abolish the OIC system. And so, based on the task force report and their commitment, the government did... So the government has been presented... And it is very important that the government is coherent... There have been more than 167 harmonisations, and in the Committee of the Cabinet of Ministers the government has approved the programme and report on the abolition of the existing OIC system. Without going into the details, I can answer that we... about how it looks in general, and this is important from the point of view of the facts... At the start of government’s work, the OIC’s support was €266 million per year. At the end of the government's work, it is less than EUR 80 million a year. So it's 187 million a year. The submitted programme provides for a reduction of the OIC to 106 million per year, i.e. a further reduction of EUR 80 million. As we can see, the follow-up of the programme means that Latvia can work with the support of the OIC of EUR 65 million in an effective way and solve this problem with regard to the European Union, as well as effectively ensure economic work. It must be said, too, that this programme provides for a very serious safeguard mechanism for the economy, which is very important. Based on research by both Scandinavian and Latvian scientists, we came to the conclusion that Latvia's optimal support for electricity totals 0.3 percent of GDP. The programme therefore provides for the introduction of such a safety mechanism into legislation, on which the public is entitled to verify each year that the total amount of aid does not exceed that level. So I want to say that I have fulfilled my promise that I will work on the abolition of the OIC system. This model foresees that, from 2022, we are moving towards market-based OIC support, in line with the practice of other European countries. With regard to the specific request. It's got nine questions at all. The first question concerning the operation of the Ministry of Economic Affairs concerns support for section TEC-2. So there's a question... I'm not going to go into the legal scenes, but it's generally... So... What, please? Yes! Overall, this situation therefore applies to 2013, when the country submitted the alignment with the European Commission, and this harmonisation has now been notified to the European Commission. The European Commission has not yet adopted a final decision. Colleagues who do not know the situation, that means this... For each Member State of the European Union, it has been found that State aid is being granted and therefore has an obligation to coordinate it with the European Commission. The European Commission can accept this as inadequate or, on the contrary, inadequate. If this is the case, the Member State shall continue to grant the aid, but if it is not the case, the Member State shall be obliged to recover the unlawful aid from the beneficiary. In the case of Latvia, a notification has now been submitted and we are looking forward to a decision by the European Commission. We have no reason to believe that the aid provided is illegal because it is consistent with national legislation. That is also the answer to the second question. The third question was why the Ministry of Economics is implementing aid to economic operators under point 52 of the transitional provisions of the Electricity Market Act, which has not been agreed with the European Commission. This is about wind stations that received support before joining the European Union, and the question of support for wind stations was submitted to the European Commission. The European Commission left the case open, considering that it was not necessary to respond to it. The next question is why the Ministry of Economics, by setting up a high-level group, did not intend to carry out a competent and comprehensive assessment of the legality of the system for supporting subsidised electricity; if such an assessment is at the disposal of the Ministry of Economics, please submit it. This is clearly an important issue and we must say that, when we set up a working group, we have focused mainly on abolishing the OIC system. The task force received a mandate from the Cabinet of Ministers for three tasks: to assess the macroeconomic impact of OICs that we did; to find mechanisms for removing OICs, which we did; and to find mechanisms for green energy in the future and sustainable mechanisms under a community agreement; and to do so. With regard to the legal assessment, we assume that the government acted legally and that government lawyers - both those in the relevant ministries, in the Cabinet of Ministers and in the State Registry - are constantly verifying and following the legitimacy of government action. A legal assessment was developed for all 12 proposals adopted and developed by the Working Group. They were all accepted. It is also clear that Parliament wants to understand once again the legal assessment of the system. I do not see any problem if this Parliament, like the previous one, were to order the issue of a list of all responsible or licensing agents. In the same way, the Petitions Commission can present a task to the government in Parliament, which means providing such a legal assessment. The government itself has the task of the Cabinet of Ministers regarding this OIC report and the OIC cancellation action programme. The same as paragraph 2 has been written by the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance - to provide legal assessment. And that's understandable. Parliament has the right to make sure of this once again, and there is no doubt that if this is necessary, such an assessment will be made as soon as the government takes such a decision. Then there is the last question: what is the legal basis for the public statement by the Ministry of Economics that if Latvia stops providing excessively generous, illegal aid, Latvia may lose EUR 100 million in legal proceedings? I have to say that... by reference to the various information mentioned above... In the opinion of the Ministry of Economy, there are currently no grounds for considering the State aid granted as incompatible with the internal market of the European Union. The amount of aid received by economic operators is limited in accordance with European Community rules. And in this case, we believe that there are very high legal risks if we simply delete these articles from law and, without providing sufficient legal basis, stop providing this support. Regarding sources... On the level of the undertaking. Within the working group, financial institutions did not provide everything - I must say, not everything! - the credit institution's information on bank loans... Let us say so, bank loans to this sector. That is at least EUR 180 million. The Latvian Renewable Energy Federation has said that the total amount of litigation could reach one billion euros. We believe that these legal risks are fundamental. In this respect, we believe that the programme proposed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs - to abandon the OIC system within three years and to work under the European Community agreement - is reasonable. The question of whether an economic operator is eligible for aid if it does not fulfil the conditions for aid and carries out fraudulent practices to obtain it, I can answer that the economic operator does not have the right to receive such aid. And the Ministry of Economy has carried out appropriate checks. At least 27 licences, two criminal cases have been revoked during my life, and an application for supervision has been submitted to the Public Prosecutor's Office regarding the manner in which it has been implemented. Is there a legitimate expectation of unlawful aid? I can answer that there is no such legitimate expectation. And if the aid is unlawful, the economic operator must repay it. This is briefly about this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U39	Colleagues want to debate. The debate is due 15 minutes. Will you have six, Mr. Zarins? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “Nothing!” ) No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, All right. So let's start the debate after a break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! ( Internouncing call.) Name of the Saeima Secretary Maria Golubeva. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U40	Not registered: Vjačeslav Dombrovskis (Interface: “No!” ), Imants Dūritis... I'm sorry... Ilmārs Dūritis, Kaspars Girgens, Inese Ikstena... Yes. Alexander Kirštein (Interface: “There was! ” ), Ivan Clementyev, Rihards Kohl. ... Yes. Ieva Krapāne, Linda Liepiņa (Interface: Yes!) )... Yes, Arthur Tom Plesh. Dace Rukšāne-Šchipčinska... Yes, Mārtiņš Staķis... Yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U41	Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U42	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber! On the agenda shall be the reply of the members of the Cabinet of Ministers to the request of Members. The reply of the Minister for Economic Affairs to the request of Members of the Saeima ‘On the legality and legality of the State aid scheme for subsidised electricity implemented by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Economics’. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U43	Hello, colleagues! I listened to the answers given by the Minister. I am familiar with what the Minister has written. I am in front of this, and unfortunately I must admit that once again I have seen the validity of this request and the need to carry out a comprehensive legal assessment of the existing system of state aid for subsidised electricity and its compliance with both European Union and national law, and also how it is applied, because without such an assessment all its manipulation is possible, all that has just been said to you from the triangle that the Ministry of Economics is doing. And that is why I will now go through the replies of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and I will show you how all this is done if there is no evaluation, and what the Ministry of Economics is actually doing. You will be able to judge yourself if it really is dealing with ending this afer, or if you are looking carefully and desperately for an opportunity to continue this afer, but only doing so... actually is printed in the corner... or like a puppy who put his little mouth in his beloved slip, and he says, “Look at what you have done!” And only then is he forced to admit something. Otherwise, nothing happens. So, colleagues, again, what is the story about? If we're talking about this so-called... I'll just use the abbreviation OIC... Article 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states that, in order for a State aid system to be legal, Latvia, as a Member State of the European Union, is entitled to implement State aid, such aid must first be brought into line with the European Commission. If this is not agreed with the European Commission, such support is illegal. This has been recognised both by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and by the Ministry of Finance, with which we have debated. Go on. What does the European Commission do when it assesses State aid? It assesses three matters of principle, and it is important to understand. Consequently, the existence of the aid, the legality of the aid and the compatibility of the aid are assessed. These are three different things. What is the Ministry of Economics doing, and why do I mention it? In its answers, it often mixes these different things - one thing is being asked for someone else. I mean, very often when... and these issues are the legality of the aid... Very often, the Ministry of Economics instead talks about the coherence of aid - whether it is coherent or not it has been compatible with the principles of the common market of the European Union. In order to understand you, I will take to everyone an understandable analogy of road traffic regulations. You stop on the street policeman and ask you, ask... What is usually required? Driving licence and vehicle technical passport to make sure that you have the right to participate in road traffic and that you have not stolen this car. The Ministry of Economy answers in this dialogue: “But I drive according to the rules.” Yes, you were driving according to the rules, it is very good that you have followed them, but the fact that you were driving according to the rules does not remove the requirement that this car should not be stolen and that you have the right to participate in road traffic at all. And that's the question we always ask! We ask: “How is that car there? It’s stolen or not stolen? Show the documents!’ The Ministry of Economics answers: “But I drive according to the rules.” And now we're going through these answers, concrete things. The first question asked to the Ministry of Economics: on what legal basis the Ministry of Economics is entitled to infringe this European Union... Article 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and to provide support for TEC-2 before being agreed with the European Commission? Why are we asking this? Because there is a very clear formula provided by the European Commission and laid down by law. So if Latvia wishes to provide such support, it must be agreed with the European Commission. If the aid is not compatible, such aid shall be unlawful. This is clearly stated in the European Union Regulation (EC) 2015/1589. (The regulation is a law that goes beyond any national law and must be respected.) The regulation says that if such aid is granted in breach of Article 108, it is illegal. In 2017, when assessing the OIC system, the European Commission very specifically indicated to the Latvian Government that this aid had been implemented in breach of Article 108 and is therefore illegal. And that is why we are now asking the Ministry of Economics to explain why, now that the Ministry clearly knows that the aid is illegal, because it has been told directly and unequivocally, it continues to implement it. What does the Ministry of Economics answer? And colleagues, especially those who care about the rule of law in our country, I call on you to listen to what the Ministry of Economics is doing and to see how we share these principles of justice. In particular, the Ministry of Economics answers that... What is it as a legal provision - aid... guaranteed charges for electric power installed in the power plant... TEC-2... is provided in accordance with Section 28.1 of the Electricity Market Act. So what the Ministry of Economics is trying to say in full seriousness to us as legislators is that they can, by means of national legislation, waive the requirements of the regulation, or what is laid down by the regulation of the European Union. I'm sorry, either we're being considered here to be totally rude and idiots who don't understand anything at all, or it's simply a maximum of legal nihilism and an attempt to lie and feed something here, apologies, or absolutely... completely inadequate cases! Go on. What does the Ministry of Economics say in its answer? The Ministry still does not answer what this norm is. Why are we asking for it at all? Because the Ministry of Economics seemed to have asked for it. The Ministry is beginning to explain history further. It moves to history and says: “We have not given it because understanding of it has evolved... “ And so on. Okay. We're not going to discuss it. Let's not discuss whether it's... whether you know the law or understand the law... whether it relieves you of your responsibility to do it or not. We will not discuss the fact that the decision of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Latvia that the Supreme Court of the Republic of Latvia, you see, has decided in 2010 that it is not state aid (although we clearly know that it is the competence of the state court – to decide whether it is state aid or not). We are not discussing this here now. We are simply talking about the fact that, even if you thought you didn't know, you didn't understand what you were doing, and you had some reasons why you did so, the European Commission made it very clear in 2017: this is state aid, it is illegal. And with regard to TEC-2, it was very clear that this decision... with this decision... Points 96 and 96... They're making it clear... I'll read it so that I don't... So, paragraph 96... Sorry that I will read English because, you see, the Latvian Government did not give up on the Latvian translation when it received this decision. Give me the reasons.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U44	I recall, Mr Zarins, that the working language of the Saeima sittings is a state language.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U45	Then I'll translate it later.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U46	Okay.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U47	The Commission notes that read to the TEC-2 is outside the scale of this decision. The Commission therefore informs the Latvian Government that this decision... TEC-2 is not included in this Decision. Reconciliation. So it is still not harmonised. And that's why it was the TEC-2 question. Why would you continue? The Ministry of Economy is unable to name any rule. Go on. Yes, and there is this game going on, that they are beginning to talk: you see, we have already agreed with the European Commission that it is coherent, that it is compatible. Yeah, it's very good that you've driven by the rules. In fact, you have not come to the end - there are hits, and the state of Latvia committed to paying 80 million to Lithuanians and Estonians in the form of interconnections. Here we go! It is obvious that this aid is illegal and the Ministry of Economics has not been able to name a rule why it would be entitled to do so, because there is no such rule at all. Go on. The next question was whether you considered such a decision... such aid is lawful? Why did we ask? Because the Ministry of Economics is trying to claim it all the time. The answer of the Ministry of Economics is unique to this. It starts - in accordance with the rules of European Union law, the European Commission is the responsible authority that decides on this. But if the European Commission is the decision-making body, it has made it very clear that the aid is illegal. All the more! It is here that reference is made to this provision of European Union law, which makes it clear. But what does the Ministry of Economics do? Once again, it extorts from this rule of law one single narrow rule with which it tries to play, that is to say, it is talking about a country... the compatibility of the aid again. And they say: if aid is compatible, then the European Commission does not have to ask any of us, it is all right. And again, there is this one manipulation that is being carried out. Therefore, if the aid has indeed been unlawful, but has subsequently been declared compatible, which is the case for Latvia, there are special laws that foresee what in such a case... the competence of the European Commission and the competence of the Member State. In this case, indeed, the European Commission is not obliged to deal with the country of Latvia, and that is very good. Neither do we. We are talking about the consequences of this illegal and coherent aid, which comes from national legislation. In addition, once again, these same European Union legal provisions make such cases very clear. I will probably be forced to read English and then translate. There is a document issued by the European Commission - it is called State Aid Manual of Procedures... Thus, a guide to the application of State aid procedures, where it is determined how Article 108 is applicable, and also to what action is taken in the case of Latvia where the aid is unlawful, but it can indeed be harmonised at a later stage. It follows from these two different cases. The first is what the European Commission needs to do. The European Commission does not have to punish a Member State in this case; it does not have to demand anything. The second is from the national legislation of the Member State itself. There is a very clear statement. This is the third chapter, which is specifically about illegal aid, which states that the courts of the Member States must suspend the granting of unlawful aid or even order the recovery of unlawful aid. Here is another special document called the Commission note on the environment of State aid law by national courts. Consequently, the Commission’s statement on the way in which national courts must implement the State aid rules. And it makes it very clear, very clear, that national courts are obliged to recover the damage caused by such unlawful aid, regardless of whether it has been declared compatible. So, colleagues, we really see: there are actions that can cause hundreds of millions of losses, not just the hundreds of millions that the Ministry of Economics says about, but the hundreds of millions that are on the other side. As a result of the action of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, these claims for hundreds of millions of euros can be brought by OIC payers who have been forced to pay illegal aid. The illegal aid that the Ministry of Economics has implemented seems to be knowing what it is doing. On the other hand, if we are talking about one story in this request, where was... when the question was asked about the legal basis for the statement made several times by the Ministry of Economics that by stopping the provision of excessively generous, illegal aid, Latvia could lose hundreds of millions of euros in legal proceedings; please submit this justification... Thus, the keywords here were ‘excessively generous, illegal support’. The question is very simple: is there any legal certainty at all with regard to unlawful aid, even if it has been harmonised? Once again, the legal rules of the European Union are clearly defined - no, in such a case, there is no legal certainty at all. That's one thing. But where do these risks really appear? And why does the Ministry of Economics really fear all these risks? Here I will not talk about conspiracy theories, the interests of sponsors and similar individual parties... I will talk about a specific point. So, where is the problem? If the Ministry of Economics does not want to recognise its illegal activities... that they were really illegal, that they had not complied with these standards, and are trying to insist that all this is legal and correct, then the businessmen who have committed these unlawful acts say, “Well if you say that all this is right, pay us in the horn!” ( I am sorry for this expression.) That is exactly what the Ministry of Economics is doing... in this way, models, and it can really make it possible for someone to have such a claim right... that he didn't get anything... that no unlawful aid has been received because the Ministry of Economics insists that the aid is lawful and that it is due to be paid. And that is a very serious problem, colleagues. And that's why... I've only a minute left, so I'll shorten. And what's interesting? On the one hand, the Ministry of Economics is trying to tell us that it can be done. But the question is: do you think that an economic operator is eligible for aid if it does not fulfil the conditions for aid? The Ministry of Economics says no, it's not legal. But no further reason is the Ministry of Economics... Regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers allowing to violate the conditions and receive this support. The Ministry of Economy has been asked here whether there is legal certainty with regard to unlawful aid, and the Ministry of Economics responds (and then comes back to the contradiction): if an economic operator receives unlawful aid, there is no reason to believe that it would have legal certainty. But what about all these proceedings, the Ministry of Economics? And that's what I'm trying to show by this request, that's what the Ministry of Economics does... The Ministry is very careful to manipulate it not to actually sort out this area and put an end to it, but to be able to continue it, and to look for a wide range of covers. And so, of course, there is a need for some specific measures to do this in some way. Therefore, colleagues, I believe that the work of such an Ministry of Economic Affairs is not justified. It undermines the rule of law and the foundations of state democracy... will base these principles on their own. First of all, the way in which the Ministry of Economics has responded to this request, so that it does not... When we, the whole Saeima, voted and told the Ministry of Economics what they had to do, they did not. They provided the same information that they had already submitted and that we found unsatisfactory. And so, colleagues, I have called on my colleagues to support my initiative and to say... request the resignation of the Minister for Economic Affairs. We will also discuss this further, I hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U48	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U49	Arvil Asheraden, what is the feeling of allowing you to steal your people? What is the feeling of allowing our country's entrepreneurs to lose their competitiveness as a minister for the economy and as a cover for OIC afferists? What is the feeling when you climb into the parliamentary tribunal and know that you will have to lie to the general public with a serious face, that you are working carefully on the abolition of the OIC? Revocation after three years, after another 700 million have been stolen, and when there will be a newft at the expense of pensioners, teachers, police officers, honest businessmen... Mr Asheraden, OIC means the most expensive electricity at least in the region. This means poverty for the nation, but wealth for some of your sponsors. Mr Asheraden, if you were an honorary man, you would have resigned yourself. But in the spirit of Solvita Āboltiņa's Unity, it's your business card. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “Aldi, stop!” ) You are saying that Latvia may be deprived of legal proceedings. Really? Who proves this? Which documents prove this? Only the fact that... You don't want to defend your country, but you're defending OIK aferists! At the moment when the recipients of illegal afex support will feel fear of the reddish sun - at that time all the talks about litigation against the state of Latvia will disappear as darkness after night. I would also like to turn to you, the New Conservative Party. This will be the next time you will prove whether you are political supporters of new policies or sponsors of Āboltiņa Unity, and the addition of politicians who have lost trust in old voters and society. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Bordan leaves the hall. (Laughter) I call on Mr Asheraden to resign himself, but if the coverage of the OIC is more important than the interests of the people, then I call on him to vote today in favour of the withdrawal of Asheraden from the office of Minister for Economic Affairs. And in this respect, I must also say that anyone who will support Asheraden in his post by voting against the abolition of Asheraden, with or without a vote, will clearly show the desire to continue the OIC field as it has been so far. State support, by the way, is needed for the poorest part of the nation, so many ordinary citizens of our country, not for some OIC millionaires and major sponsors of the parties. And that is the story of the OIC, whose years do not want to be resolved by our authorities. The time has come to change this quickly and now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U50	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U51	Colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! In his report, the Minister recalled an earlier history of state aid. And rightly reminded! That is true: support is being provided from the mid-1990s and second half of the year even before we joined the European Union and liberalised our electricity market in 2007. The difference between that time and that time is that it was clear at that time: this support is in the interests of certain people, corrupt character, but it could not really be called illegal in a way, because the Cabinet of Ministers adopted regulations, the Saeima passed laws. It is quite good to see this process in history - someone understood what was voted on, but a very large number of Members did not understand, naive votes in favour of the independence of the electricity market from Russia. As a result, we made certain people rich in politics, created a pension fund for them, they built HES on the small rivers, severely damaged the environment of Latvia - until now there is a problem. The second phase, i.e. from 2007 to 2017, began then and then the third phase. I'm going to talk about two stages now. Since July 2007, when the electricity market in Latvia was liberalised, we are subject to all the norms, regulations and so on of the European Union. We do not seem to argue that this is state aid - it is, of course, also established by the European Commission in its report of 24 April 2017. We do not argue that State aid is an exclusive competence of the European Commission. No one in any administrative institution has really argued that it is an exclusive competence of the European Union, so any state aid can be launched... issued in accordance with the decisions of the European Union, the European Commission and not sooner. Any aid granted earlier than harmonisation is unlawful. Moreover, such treatment and provision is not limited to State aid in the European Union. This is the attitude and rule with regard to any European Union funding, including the Structural Funds, and also with regard to projects in the Structural Funds - before they are finally harmonised - no payments can be made in advance. If they have been carried out, they have been illegal and have to be repaid. Even if, in this case, we respect the rules of European Union law, the aid granted until 24 April 2017, the date on which the European Commission gave its opinion, is not only illegal, but must also be recovered from the beneficiaries. If we followed the right... In all other cases, we respect European Union law, with the exception of this. And there is one interesting episode in this regard that directly affects the Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvil Asheraden. About a year ago, during the debate on this issue in public television broadcasting, the Minister admitted that he entered the office at the time he was serving as a minister... direct quote... he has been interested in something that Europe thinks about this aid, which has so hurt electricity prices that it has ruined the competitiveness of Latvia's big producers. He has taken an interest and learned that we have not coordinated, even started to coordinate with the European Commission. And then followed the most interesting. The Minister said: “And then we quickly started to do so.” I don't understand this. If the Minister finds that illegal state aid is being paid, then I think the only legal action is to stop it immediately, to clarify the reasons for it, to find out the officials who have taken such a decision and have paid such aid, rather than to try to harmonise it post-factum by misleading the public, misleading the government, misleading the parliament and - the worst! - misleading the beneficiaries of the OIC that, if the European Commission harmonises, the aid they receive could become lawful. The report of the European Commission of 24 April 2017 in a very clear and very brief and laconic section on the rule of law (point 3.2) makes one sentence: this aid was started to be granted in breach of Article 108(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Further consistency. European Union law. The same Treaty and the final rulings of the Court of Justice of the European Union make it clear that such aid must be recovered; national courts are obliged to recover it, not that it may or cannot be recovered. There is an obligation to recover the aid. It is an episode until 24 April 2017, i.e. an episode... In particular, all the support that has been provided so far can in theory not be lawful, in theory it cannot be legal. Such theories simply do not exist. And then the third saga begins. In theory, as of 24 April 2017, the way in which the Commission harmonises the further aid... it effectively harmonises the aid which may be granted from that date. They very specifically define what is to be supported and what is not to be supported. They state, for example, that there may not be more than 90 per cent of the profit margin there; they state that only that part of the energy that has remained after consumption may be placed on the market (in the sense that you first use yourself and only return the balance). And a few more regulations. The interesting thing is that, from now on, the aid is illegal, because we have not complied with these rules in any case. It's even worse. We now say: the wonderful plan for 2020-2022! Then the OIC will be cancelled... and so on. The Ministry is proud to have carried out checks at 40 conditional stations, 27 of them found irregularities and took away licences. In fact, after 24 April 2017, the first work to be done by our government and the Ministry of Economics as the responsible authority had to be immediately checked for compliance of all stations with these harmonised standards. After 20 months, 40 stations have been tested (intensity - on average two stations per month). We still have 330 stations running (I will not talk about those who have received a license and even not work) - 330! So, by doing simple mathematics, we see that at this pace we will have tested whether they are working at a much less legitimate level, twelve and a half years later. We need twelve-and-a-half years to make us more... In the meantime, we will continue to pay, even without making sure that its stations actually exist, the amount of aid agreed by the European Commission. No, seriously? What? Is that the way we are going to proceed in our country? And I'll tell you something else. I won't talk long anymore. In the context of the government, there are different lines between the parties - who will, who will not. Our party has not drawn such lines, but it must be time for us to draw such lines. And it's not about lots, it's not about people... We believe that if we can start a new policy, then there are no bad or good parties, there are people who are either implementing it or not. And that's our red line, this is OIC. And it will not be enough with a declaratory sentence in the government declaration. We want a public written agreement between the parties that are planning to build a government on a single legal issue... In fact, on the understanding of its illegality and on a specific date on which we put an end to this illegal aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U52	I closed the debate. Does the Minister for Economics have anything to add or explain? No, no. Consequently, the Minister for Economic Affairs has responded to the parliamentary request and the question has been examined. On the agenda - consideration of draft decisions. Draft decision submitted by Members Zarina, Krišana, Kucina, Lochmeles-Lunova, Tutina and others on distrust to Minister for Economic Affairs Arvilas Asheraden. Mr. Zarins, will you speak on behalf of the rapporteurs or in the debate? On behalf of the applicants. On behalf of the applicants: Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U53	Colleagues, today we are in a rather different situation. We will have to debate a ministerial resignation in a government that has already set its mandate. Unfortunately, there are two fundamental reasons why we need to do so today, however strange this situation is. The first reason is what we have been talking about today in substance. And I'm going to say a few things to make it worth thinking about what's actually happening here. And the second, I think, is no less... very principled and very important - if we really... if we have an important rule of law in our country, the principles of the state system that are recorded in the Constitution are important to us, namely that the sovereign power of the state of Latvia belongs to the people of Latvia, which it exercises through its presupposes, and that the executive power must be accountable to the leaders of the people, then we simply do not have any other options than to consider such a demission today and vote on it. For that is, what has been done by the executive - it has simply ignored the principles that have been enshrined in the Constitution of our country - that we are a democratic republic, that the executive authority must be accountable to the leaders of the people and provide the explanations that it is required. We have not received them. More than that. It is simply clearly ignored, although in the past this request, which we talked about, was supported here in the Saeima sitting, and so the whole Saeima, the whole nation of Latvia, determined - we want answers to the question, as is the rule of law of the OIC system. And certain things that show whether it is legal or not. No replies were received. The same reply was submitted to the Saeima. That's one thing. The other thing is, if we're talking about the substance... Colleagues, it must be understood that, in fact, what we see... I think it has already become clear to many that, in fact, what is happening now, which the Ministry of Economics is doing, it is not doing to end this area, but trying desperately and carefully to cover it. And it's very simple to prove it. You have just heard certain facts, concrete reasoning. I suggest that you think about principles now. If you were an economic minister, the first thing you would do if you wanted to deal with this situation - I would probably try to understand and evaluate what in this situation, it is right in this system, what is wrong, what is legal, what is illegal, how to separate the ash from the grain, so that you understand what to do. Why has the Ministry of Economics not done so all these years? All the time, more than a year when we raised this issue, the Ministry of Economics has not done so. Even this high-level group, which was created with such a pump before the elections, did not forget to give such a task - to assess the legality of the current situation, its compliance with European Union and national rules and how they are applied. Because that would be the first thing to do if you wanted to deal with this afer. Why not? If this is not done, then very successfully can create such a nightmare with all of these... these bogs with grain are mixed together and say: you see, we cannot do anything with them - if we force it, then that and that will happen. Although, in fact, it is very simple - a great deal could be done. If we separate the bran from the grain, then we really have to take care of the grain, and the bran is this illegal side... Not only can we, but we also have a duty to deal with what has not been done for a long time. And why not? What did the Ministry of Economics do? You hear all these hero stories. I could see it as reasonable to show that these things look quite different. Somehow the same tests have been mentioned. These checks started only after we asked the Ministry of Economics to account here. Did the Ministry of Economics not know itself that it was necessary to check? What should we do with this? And even when they forced me to check here, they came and again began to tell stories about how they checked. And then we began to ask specific questions: “Who has been specifically tested? What stations have been tested? What did you test? And please give me the documents about those stations! On what basis have you left these permits to them?’ Then, suddenly, the Ministry of Economics said: “Oh, no, no, no, we will continue to check.” And so they checked this 40 station for six months. Six months later, we asked them again, “What have you really tested there?” And imagine - after six months, the Ministry of Economics could not answer a simple question - how many of these stations are actually built and actually working. Six months is checked by 40 stations and told as a hero story. Then they tell us how many permits they have cancelled, but they keep silent that in almost all of these cases this station has not been there at all. That means these stations... Those authorisations should have been withdrawn without any checks. And then the hundreds of millions that seem to be... they have been taken out of the people's shoulders due to the self-free, pale activities of the Ministry of Economics. It's only default that real... the millions are actually zero, because those millions are counted on condition that these stations had been built and would have been working at full capacity. There's no one there. And they can't be there at all. This means that the real contribution is not hundreds of millions but zero. Why does the Ministry of Economics tell such fairy tales? Because it has to show this "heroster" - that it is doing something about this OIC sphere as if it were doing something about it. But in fact, it continues to cover it. Another of the stories I will give you as an example. At one time, we had a request for one specific rule to be observed by all these businessmen. In particular, the Electricity Market Law for more than 10 years has established that the merchant of the increased tariff is entitled to sell only the amount of electricity remaining after his own consumption. What did the Ministry of Economics do? We caught it and proved that this is not really under control, and that in fact what the Ministry of Economics has done - a framework that not only provides an opportunity, but even motivates businesses to cheat. In particular, the Ministry of Economics, when calculating their procurement... the volume at which the operator can sell at the increased tariff shall be taken into account for all capacity installed by the operator, irrespective of the capacity required by the operator itself. This, in turn, gives the merchant the opportunity and strong motivation to sell all its electricity at this increased tariff, but to buy the electricity he needs from another supplier cheaply - from Latvenergo. There is concrete evidence for such criminal activity - these are connection schemes. We have shown that this is an important factor that needs to be monitored. What do you think the Ministry of Economics did? The Ministry of Economics urgently amended the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers - provided that the Ministry would not start to control this norm; that it should not be controlled until 1 July 2019. And the argument that has been confirmed by the Ministry of Economics in writing... They said: “Well? If we do this, we need economic operators to change these connection schemes, and if we do not give them time, as we say, to change these connection schemes, then it will happen that we catch them in fraud and we will have to take them away." That's what they said! Not only do you know, it does not only cover up, but it also helps all these irregularities to happen. Go on. Another very basic story in terms of the legality of this support. So this... was agreed with the European Commission. In order to coordinate this OIC support, the European Commission identified cases of principle to which... the reservations the European Commission was prepared to accept that this aid scheme was being harmonised. And one of these reservations was the prevention of overcompensation risks. A overcompensation mechanism - IRR (internal rate of return - 9 per cent) was introduced. And it was also discussed what the principles should be, that all the aid provided to the operator must be taken into account and that these costs must be calculated in such a way that the operator can add, not just some of the costs but only those that would be justified by the particular... that marks should be fixed at a specific level, which may not be exceeded. What did the Ministry of Economics do? Formally, in order to take account of the fact that the Ministry is fulfilling what the European Commission has requested, the Ministry made such regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, but later entered a reservation in these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers: if the businessman does not agree with all this, then the businessman may submit his calculations, which have been approved by the auditor. And they may include da any expenses. The key is that they are accounted correctly. And as a result, this norm does not work. In addition, the Ministry of Economics has provided in these Cabinet of Ministers for the fact that not all aid is taken into account, but only the aid resulting from this last scheme, which is the law on the electricity market. In essence, the European Commission's decision is therefore not complied with. This means that, by its nature, the Ministry of Economics continues to provide illegal aid. And they all know. Despite the fact that they've been told it's all completely accurate... as I mentioned to this kitten who's got scooped. And even then he's trying to get away and not listen. Colleagues, do you think that there is little hope that anything will change? We know all these facts! We know all these facts, we see the action of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. How do you think we can allow this and say: “Yes, this action is appropriate, it is lawful and in accordance with the principles laid down in the Constitution of our country, and it is in accordance with the principles that we have come here to carry out and which we have sworn to our people.” Obviously not. So, colleagues, if you matter to us... And it's gonna be... I think that this vote will be very principled, very important and important, it will show whether those political forces who have stood up for the rule of law in a country that claims to be important to them are really important, even more important than some political pillar to be in a new government. So, my fellow Members, I am calling for support for this request for democracy and indeed for our actions to show that this country is legal and democratic and that these principles are important to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U54	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U55	Colleagues! For those who do not know, I will remind you that in the state budget of Latvia money is received from about 5000 entrepreneurs. Around 90 per cent of the budget consists of taxes paid by 5000 entrepreneurs. The Ministry of Economics has not studied how many companies from Latvia have left Latvia, how many companies in Latvia have been hindered due to the OIC environment. And today, I would like you, honourable Members, who also receive your wages thanks to these tax-paying entrepreneurs, to show them our support, a clear signal that the OIC may end faster, and I call on you to vote in favour of this request for a resignation, to support Mr Asheradena's resignation precisely on behalf of Latvian businessmen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U56	I closed the debate. Does Mr Asheraden want to add something? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Are we ready to vote? ( Interfaces: The debate has already closed!) ; “Let’s vote!” ) Please call us! We will vote on the draft decision on distrust to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvil Ašeraden! ( Milestones.) Please vote mode! Please get the result! ( Milestones.) For - 35, for - 53, for - 1. ( FROM THE GROUP: “The rule of law is over! ” ; dep. R. Kols: “You go to Riga City Council! The rule of law!’ ) Consequently, no decision has been taken. (Applause) Dear colleagues, Members of Parliament, Pavlut, Pūce, Pabrik, Staķis and others are asking for a break at the sitting of the Saeima after item 40 “On distrust to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvilas Aseradens”. ( Subtotal: “Why? ”) ) How long do you ask for a break? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “For a year!” ) An hour? For how long is being asked... Is that so? It's an hour. So by 12:45. Do Members have objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Do Members have objections? So we have to vote. Colleagues! We will vote in favour of the adjournment at the Saeima sitting for an hour. Please call me! Let's vote for a break for an hour - by 12:45! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, A break is announced until 12:45. Colleagues! The registration must be made before the break. Please call me! Please register the Members! The name is Marija Golubeva. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U57	Not registered: Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Ilmārs Dūritis, Kaspars Ģirgens, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Ivans Klementjevs, Ieva Krapāne, Linda Liepiņa... And Ralph Nemir... It's Arthur Tom Pelles, Eric Pucken... Yes, Jutt Strike... Yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U58	Interruption until 12.45. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U59	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can continue the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft decision on the repeal of the mandatory procurement component. Are Members willing to debate? Let us start a debate. Name to Member Armand Kraus. Mr. Krauze, will you speak on behalf of the applicants? On behalf of the applicants, Member Armands Krauze.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U60	Colleagues! Today we have a draft decision of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on the abolition of the mandatory procurement component on our agenda. Today is 10 January - as if such a insignificant date, but... Now, in fact, the third month since the government works... Family, I'm sorry, but there's still an old government. The old government is still working! The new Saeima works, but there is no new government. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Zakaistov: “Do not burn salt in the wounds!” ) And what this Saeima did in those two... Well, to be more... months? We have not actually made any decisions. We wouldn't even get a salary. We couldn't have set up a commission for almost a month. ( Internouncing call.) And that's what I... I say this for all of us, yes, because we are here. What should we actually have done, and what could we do at this time? What we have promised the voters. Most parties have promised voters to cancel the OIC. The fact that there are no governments does not mean that Members cannot prepare an appropriate project here. It has long been possible to prepare such a project! Unfortunately, this has not been done. We had to split posts. We have now made so many sub-commissions as... He didn't talk about it at all in the previous Saeima... Why? ( Internouncing call.) We divide the posts, right! So we have to get to work. And the decision of the Saeima... What does the decision of the Saeima mean? Last year, the Saeima, by its decision, instructed the Prime Minister to prepare a report on the OIC. What is the result? It's moving. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Zakaistov: “Who moved?” ) It was really moving. The report showed certain responsible names, and the case went ahead. Where, though, has it stopped? This apparently has stopped somewhere in the ministry because nothing has been done. That is why we, the Saeima, must decide that the OIC should be abolished by 31 March of this year. What is more, the truth must be removed, not the fact that the name is changed, maybe included in some other payment, perhaps hidden somewhere else, but, as a result, paid - who? Still, all citizens, those who consume electricity, pay. Of course, this must be done legally. And when it comes to the rule of law, there will now be a great opportunity for the candidate for Prime Minister - probably Prime Minister Kariņš - to actually launch the foam that Mr Kariņš in 2005, when the OIC was laid foundations and the electricity market law was passed here in the Saeima on 5 May... Karin was the Minister for Economics. Now, see what a coincidence! At the time the Minister of Economics gave start to OIK, as the Ministry led this bill, will now be able very successfully to liquidate OIK in a very short time. Of course, legal aspects are important in this decision, but even more importantly, citizens' bills and what is promised to people. I therefore call on us to support this draft decision and remember what we have promised our constituents in party programmes so that citizens... and, by the way (Dep. A. Neighbours enters the hall: “From the beginning! What was that? I didn’t hear it!” ), we can still look to the right - there are also actors who have promised to liquidate the OIC! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Of course!” ) That is why we must vote on this draft decision! I invite you to support the draft decision!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U61	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the abolition of the mandatory procurement component! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. ( The grass is oval.) Decision adopted. ( Insights: “Ivar, learn to speak! The cargo explained everything in four minutes!” ) On the agenda - examination of Members' requests. The reply of the members of the Cabinet of Ministers to the request of Members. The reply of Prime Minister Māra Kučinska to the request of Saeima Members “On the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 24 April 2018 No. 172 the task assigned to the task set out in the working group on the abolition of the system of compulsory electricity procurement. The reply of Prime Minister Māra Kučinska to the request of Saeima Members “On the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 24 April 2018 No. 172 the task assigned to the task set out in the working group on the abolition of the system of compulsory electricity procurement. Name to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U62	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Honourable Members! Starting with the current government, I did not receive a letter from the previous Prime Minister, which would advise me on what I should do in the first days. Therefore, during our entire lifetime, perhaps too little we have used the method that is very effective in politics (and you know it very well) - possibly to lull everything that has been before and then, of course, let go. But none of us, either at that time or now, have changed the idea that the current OIC system is both illogical and unfair and should be abolished. I am very pleased that we have just voted to increase the pace. However, paying attention and also trying to answer a little... Although I have submitted a written reply to all the questions raised in the request... so that there are no misunderstandings... I was in Brussels - the Council of Europe - during the Panel's meeting... So let's not use those arguments... But in the declaration we clearly and lightly recorded it, at that time perhaps not yet exploring properly what is in the belly of this bear, because we remember how many years we have been saying that we have to get off the gas needle, Latvia must be green. We recorded even the last, currently existing, National Development Plan... As Latvia was already in the first line of green energy use, we wanted to add a new... And, of course, the workers used it, and the OIC continued to flourish and flourish. The first people who came to the government and met with us with the Minister for Economic Affairs and who were indignation (and they had the greatest basis for it!) , were the big, electrical-intensive manufacturers – Brocene Cement Plant, Valmiera Glass Fibre, Latvijas Finieris, unfortunately, the no longer existing “Lestuvė Metalurgs”. And they said, “Okay, now finally began to listen! We can't do it anymore! We are exploding parties from this burden that has appeared!” And I am very pleased that there are no accusations at least now on the part of the big producers. That's what we did. But I'm also drawing attention to... I am saying in particular to the next Minister for Economic Affairs, because it seems that it is very simple to make such decisions in words. Lobbys who stand behind every one of them in the Cabinet of Ministers... in particular, representatives of small HES, who have been imposed additional rules to free up money to compensate large producers... in order to reduce prices. The paper that is being attacked by butter through the air is all in front of us if we want to make a responsible decision. Any reform, any decision, always has opponents. And these opponents don't remain silent. And the worst thing a politician can do is to be subject to the first pressure that comes from the edge. Next, work on the economy has not been done. The work not done in the economic field concerns medium-sized entrepreneurs. They are waiting for our support. For large producers already prices, electricity costs are very reasonable, even the best currently in the Baltic region, while for smaller ones, such as metalworking, companies are waiting for all of this. However, a little bit about the past. The decision of the Saeima mentioned by Mr Krauze... This indeed led to the aggregation of what has happened in previous periods. And in 1995, when the double tariff for green energy began, the small HES at the time... and, for the consequences, only to be terrified when the double tariff was paid. What was later changed... At the time, nobody even dreamed that someone could get a five-fold tariff that had gone away and that... I just want to say that this is the picture. We were forced to face up to this problem with all our responsibilities. Could he do better? Of course. There's no things you couldn't do better than you couldn't do sooner... There were insufficient places, possibly resources, for the Ministry of Economics. It is also true of the small test capacity that can... where the existing HES must be checked. Energetics who are... you will meet with the specialist from the point of view of the rather ticky ministry. You're gonna make it up... But all the specialists who have gone to the lobby, who oppose and who do not want this extremely legal, legitimate support that they received under its legislation... They don't want to get away from it. On the rule of law. I've been thinking long before I sent my answer. And I also understand that Mr Asheraden has already recognised this very well with regard to one of the big turbines, but the issue is still "touched in the air"... With regard to the rest, however, I would like to say that the political decisions of the past must also be treated legally, and therefore all the chronology that was without... Before... together with sending the Saeima, reading and getting to know... And here's a whole line of ministers of people who have been state secretaries... Well, I'm not supposed to start analysing the Saeima as a prime minister, nor did I make an investigation commission. I sent the prosecutor's office and I have no answer from the prosecutor's office that they would have brought this matter back. So... Next study. I do not know whether Mr Asheraden has talked a lot about this, but an independent company of auditors has also looked at how we have controlled the issue of station licences and so on. Maybe it's a secret... I don't know if he said... but this extremely terrible opinion on total control has also been given back to the prosecutor's office. It is a question of the rule of law in the past. For what's going on... If you say, the rule of law... with the European Commission... on the approval of the aid... if in that sense, yes, it is possible that Brussels could have spoken more intensively. I can also admit that, when it comes to the rule of law and the creation of a high-level group of experts, which, though, consisted of more than 20 people, and where in fact everyone most wanted to lobby the existence of their industry... whether they could study the rule of law there, I do not know, but we said on Monday that... is the decision of the Government Committee's minutes... To make the Ministry of Economics up to the information report... step by step, we get out of the OIC... studies. The rule of law is also what we are going to do. Why is this information report now 2022? It may be 2021, it may be 2020. I hope that you will be able to speed up, so there is a task, so you have to work, but then just make sure that the country of Latvia does not fall into endless negative proceedings. That's gonna have to judge... already have to judge with dissatisfied box owners who call them power plants... with various who have submitted... I think a whole row of cases has already been brought before the court, but those courts will be... I think there are enough arguments there. But I repeat: there have been decisions of that time or other kind, but they were legitimate. Most of the people, I think, just as the majority of Parliament is sitting here... a large part did not even know what it was talking about, because the slogan from this platform was “Dependence from Russia – no! No gas! No gas! We'll live green! We will be seniors!” . No one was really talking about the economic aspect. Therefore, understanding the rule of law... for the future... of course, we have to be in this report... On Monday we examined the information report by step in the Cabinet Committee. I would not say that it is perfect, it is not improving. There are a great many points where perhaps there is still something to be done, but that is the work of the new governments and, I think, of the new minister. And most of all I really want to wish you finally to get in (Interior: “After all!” ) and on 22 days... how I understand, either this month... also to establish a government. Well, remember that 7. ... October 6th and long over. You have to stick your hands and work! But working in government doesn't mean simply saying "work in government"... There's these wasted paperwork, there's shouting, there's work... All this is still in front of us. And, as I also said in the New Year's speech, all reasonable decisions, all those aimed at a better state, will continue to be supported, despite the fact that we will be in opposition. But every step and especially the fulfillment of the promises that I will not hide are... was just fantastic and with whom you won the wish... You could say that those promises were fantastic! If I were a constituents and didn't know anything, I might think maybe maybe someone would finally bring something to me. Have a good future for all of us! And don't let us talk about a thing like OIC in four years' time! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “After three months!” ) Let's go!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U63	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Janis Bordan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U64	Dear colleagues, As you can all make sure, I have not been the author of this request. And I'm not going to go into a special study, and I didn't mean to debate. My political action is largely not linked to various hypocritical statements and attempts to speak only from the perspective, but, hearing Mr Kučinski's position and looking at the document that was put before me today, I had a question. And that's why I wanted to come to the podium. I see that maybe this question... Mrs. Chakha, I don't see in the room... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Chaksha raises his hand.) And that's it. Mrs Čakša has had a very positive contact with me on working matters, and I have noticed that she is logical, with discernment and also professionalism, especially in the field of medicine. I have a question: what is called this disease... What is the diagnosis if a person writes to himself a request or answers a request for... Regarding OIK, it itself says that it is impossible or impossible to liquidate OIC by 2022 and speaks of the rule of law in the sense that public expenditure must be taken care of and everything must be rational... Is that so? Everything you have heard before is not repeated, but the essence was that it is possible to act on the OIC by 2022. But I have before me a document that this same person has signed - that he is ordering himself, his ministry, the Ministry of Economics, to abolish the OIC by 31 March this year! That's... What's it called? I don't know, I'm not a doctor, but I think something doesn't go together. ( Internouncing call.) Because I have not heard and I do not see in this document that this is being assigned to another government minister. ( Internouncing call.) That means... I don't think... I... There is really a question: what is this disease called? ( The term “schizophrenic is called! ”) ; dep. M. Bondars: “Dual identity!” ) But there is a positive aspect that I also take into account - that Mr Kučinski and the whole group of the STECF are already working on the opposition regime. And that is what I like, because at last we see - there is a normal position and an opposition: a partnership and a fisheries. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U65	We are continuing the debate. Name to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U66	Mr. Bordan, I am fine with my diagnosis, Mrs. Chash can confirm (Laughter) , and I have never, never in my conscious life, doubted. Yeah, a little provocative. I think for a moment that you can sign this or not, because its chances that you will be able to go out of this still election time by 2022, the sense of pre-election time, you will come down on the ground, you will understand that there is work in front of you, and you will create something, is not one hundred percent. But I hope so. I have already said that I feel at the Brīvības Boulevard as stuck at the airport - neither come here properly nor go back and start working. So if someone thinks I enjoy the office of Prime Minister right now, he's wrong. So the task, regardless of whether it's... I very much hope... We can come in, I'll admit. Then, with Mr. Asheraden's honorable... and I said you voted! ( Merry laughter.) We're working on it, and we're gonna have to come up with... We should turn the paper upside down and read the text - 31 March... April 1st, if you don't have to, by the way... is not the liquidation of an OIC, but the submission of the entire package, which shows... You will give it to the Saeima to vote... which shows how to get out of the OIC as soon as possible. And, by the way, since the Energy Law is the most important thing, we have spent some time in vain. If someone had big ideas, he could have done his job in the Saeima. Because those regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers... they could still be adopted, but the main thing is legislation. And some provocation from my side, I'll admit. I think that on our part is an answer to the big bidders so that you can get to work... and would have been properly combined... Because at the time when the previous Saeima, including my own, wrote that it was necessary to make a report on everything that had been before, I think, why are I being asked? But... Well, the most important thing, however, is, I ask again, two things. Create a government! ( Merry laughter.) That's one. And then, change this empty talk about concrete works as soon as possible! Whatever the topics we are talking about at the moment - health, education - but no one can tell us that we would not have done anything and that we would not have taken what Latvia needs most and not have tried to turn it all. Everything is not complete yet, so I very much hope that you will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U67	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U68	Colleagues! When I came back to this question, or subject, I did not hear the answer to the question about the substance of this request. Why did the Saeima vote on it? That is, why did the government not want or give such a task - to carry out an evaluation of the rule of law? This is a very important issue, a very fundamental issue - especially in the current situation, when the whole Saeima has unanimously said that the government must prepare, by 31 March this year, a plan by which we put an end to an OIC in a legal way. I have a question then: what... How will this be possible without an evaluation of the rule of law? If the government, ever since it started to work on this issue, took a year and could not get it, how will this be done in these few months? Perhaps this can be done. First of all, however, this should be a political will. Answer why you didn't do that, you haven't provided here. The only thing I found here and what I have to say was to empathize (maybe I can also embarrass others)... the answer is that it is said in the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Ivars Zarins, but Ivars Zarins has not said anything like this. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Kučinskis: “You’re such an OIK symbol!” (Laughter) Well, sorry, but it was a post factum... what you have already accepted. Here we go! But then, Prime Minister, in response to the Prime Minister's rhetoric, when your task force had worked and when you yourself had fallen all that the task force had done... Mr Asheraden said that if someone has a better plan to submit it to the Cabinet of Ministers, it can be dealt with more quickly by the OIC, and he will personally support it. The working group employed 26 people for almost half a year. Within three days, I prepared such a plan alone, just as I had been asked, I submitted it to the Cabinet personally to you, explaining both the context and very clearly what are the five simple measures for which this is an elementary measure... if they were implemented, perhaps we would no longer have an OIC. Unfortunately, it was not only this proposal that was not supported. You even... Although I applied myself, I wrote that I was ready to come to the Cabinet of Ministers and answer in detail, to prove the feasibility and validity of each of these events, you... What did you think? In order not to have a debate on this, you thought that you would be looking at this issue without a debate. This simply shows how ready you were to deal with this issue. And here, too, the simple question: why was there no evaluation of the rule of law? Why didn't you put it to the working group? Have you answered me? I'm sorry... And that is, I think, an important nuance. Colleagues! As we have all supported this issue today... the fact that there could also be an alternative solution to quickly deal with the OIC afēr, then... It's the rule of law. And if there is no evaluation of the rule of law, then, apologies, these fairy tales that you have heard here (on the one hand, fairy tales, on the other, danger stories, how can or cannot be done!) - It's gonna go on. And the ring's gonna go on. Who benefits from this ring tooth? This ring Danck is good for those who continue to receive this support - in many cases, I am sure illegal support. And they pay these millions! Every month, it's millions that sink into someone's pockets. In the pockets of those who have been there, the sponsors appear to be those political forces who have covered this afore. You will now have the opportunity to choose whether you participate in it. After this vote, which I saw... on the resignation of the Minister for Economic Affairs... I really have legitimate concerns about the rule of law in this Saeima too: how capable the political forces that have come here and talked about the importance of the rule of law will be; that, indeed, these principles will be more important for them than for their mutual political arrangement, for the benefit of such transactions. Because it will depend on what will be the solution that we all voted on today. Because, as you have seen today, this understanding of the rule of law can also be very significant in this Saeima. And fearing that society as a whole would not be completely disappointed when this rule of law could have serious problems for this Saeima, I will not ask for the Prime Minister's resignation, because I expect that there may be similar votes that will ultimately cross the principles of the rule of law and the promises that some good political power has entered here in the Saeima. That's why I thought... I give you the opportunity to do my homework and come with really well - thought decisions. And what has been voted on today... Those who will have to do it can be sure that you will be closely monitored so that these works are done... and how they are done! And if there's the same aphere as it was before, then, sorry, I think it's gonna be very obvious to society... will be able to draw your own conclusions and perhaps you will have to go where many have already gone - away from this place.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U69	I closed the debate. Mr Kučinska, do you have any more to say? No, no. Thus, Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis's response to the parliamentary request has been heard and the question has been addressed. ( Internouncing call.) Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Taxes and Fees”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science is asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State coat of arms of Latvia”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. We have come under the heading ‘Provisions of draft laws’. On the agenda - draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Korea on Air Traffic”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U70	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, honourable Members, The Foreign Commission worked with the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Korea on Air Transport”. Three proposals have been received by the Commission. The proposal is from the Saeima's Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U71	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U72	The proposal also comes from the Legal Office of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U73	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U74	Proposal No 3 also from the Legal Office of the Saeima. And supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U75	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U76	I therefore call on Members to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U77	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final reading of the draft law on the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Korea on air traffic! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - Draft Law (Interface.) ‘On accession of the National Defence Department of Canada to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Italy, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of National Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre of Excellence of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation for Strategic Communications and the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Defence of the Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, as well as the staff of the Chief of Transformation of the Supreme Command of the Federal of the Republic of North Atlantic on Strategic Strategic Strategic’, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U78	Colleagues! The Foreign Affairs Commission worked with Law No. 25/Lp13. Three proposals were received by the Commission. 1. is the proposal of the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U79	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U80	The proposal was received from the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U81	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U82	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U83	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U84	I therefore call on the Foreign Affairs Commission to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U85	Please call me! We will vote on the approval of the draft law “On the accession of the National Defence Department of Canada to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Republic of Lithuania, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre of Excellence of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation for Strategic Communications and the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, as well as the staff of the Chief of Reformation of the Supreme Command of the United States on Strategic Communications of the North Atlantic Treaty! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the law on the holding of persons in custody”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Juris Jušaks.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U86	In its meeting of 18 December, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined and supported the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Detainment of Persons” (No. 20/Lp13) for second reading. No proposals were submitted. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U87	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on the law on the detention of persons in custody! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U88	The deadline for submitting proposals is 15 January this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U89	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 15 January this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U90	Colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”. We have received four proposals. 1. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U91	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U92	2. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U93	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U94	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U95	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U96	And 4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U97	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U98	Thank you, colleagues. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U99	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U100	January 17th, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U101	Thank you. Deadline for submission of proposals - 17 January this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Private Partnership”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U102	Colleagues! We have also received four proposals for this draft law. Proposal No 1 - the proposal of the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U103	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U104	2. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U105	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U106	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U107	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U108	And 4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U109	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U110	I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U111	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Public Private Partnership"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U112	January 17th, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U113	Thank you. Proposals are due by 17 January this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Defence and Security Procurement”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U114	We have received seven proposals for this draft law. Proposal No 1 - traditionally the proposal of the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U115	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U116	2. - The proposal of Viestur Silenieks, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence. Partly supported and already included in proposal 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U117	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U118	3. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U119	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U120	4. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U121	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U122	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U123	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U124	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U125	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U126	7. - The proposal of Viestur Silenieks, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U127	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U128	And that's all. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U129	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on defence and security procurement! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U130	January 17th, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U131	Thank you. Deadline for submission of proposals - 17 January this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Taxes and Fees”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Juris Pūce.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U132	Hello, dear colleagues! So we are working on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” (No. 80/Lp13). The draft law has been prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers and submitted to the Saeima. The budget and financial (tax) commission of the Saeima decided to split it up when examining this draft law, and in a few minutes we will look at the second part, the part, which will be seen in an urgent order (at least its encouraging commission). Hopefully you will support it. This, in turn, is not an urgent part; their commission will continue... The nature of the draft law. The draft law is designed to clarify the norms related to the electronic working time accounting system and the common electronic working time accounting database. The legal framework in the field of tax administration is also improved, providing for a new way of strengthening tax debt liabilities - a guarantee issued by a credit institution. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined this draft law and supported it for its first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U133	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U134	The amendments to this law provide for one essential thing. It concerns the construction sector in general, but it is important to understand that the figure and the word ‘1 million’ in Article 107 and Article 116(7) of that law are replaced by ‘200 000’, which was a partnership offer. What does that mean? This means that the adoption of these amendments will significantly increase both the administrative burden and the records to be kept by small and medium-sized enterprises. I believe that this type of provision is not acceptable and is critical, so please pay attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U135	I closed the debate. Is there any more to be added on behalf of the Commission? No, no. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -69, against -no, abstain -15. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U136	24 January this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U137	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 24 January this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Mr Daniel Pavluts.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U138	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues and colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has prepared amendments to the Construction Law for the second reading. As we have said before, they are related to the implementation of the construction information system, so that everything related to the harmonisation of construction projects, to the receipt of building permits, takes place fully in the digital environment. Those who want to work with the paper will continue to bring the paper, digitize it and further view it digitally, get a piece of paper if it chooses. But in general, we're going in the direction of modernity. Five proposals were received by the Commission. All were supported. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U139	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U140	2. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U141	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U142	Proposal No 3 was also supported following objections from the Centre for Public Policy PROVIDUS.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U143	The proposal was submitted by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The proposal is supported. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U144	Thank you. 4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U145	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U146	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U147	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U148	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U149	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U150	24 January this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U151	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 24 January this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Taxes and Fees”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U152	Dear colleagues, This is the separate draft law mentioned by Mr Pūce – the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Taxes and Fees” (No. 192/Lp13). The essence of the draft law is to provide that the electronic record of working time and the information to be provided to its database should be provided not from 1 January of this year but from 1 September. Why has the deadline been postponed? It is no secret that construction is a sector where the shadow economy has so far been extremely high. And one of the solutions to reduce this was to introduce electronic time accounting, initially at company level, and then to set up a single system. The government's original goal was to try to agree with the industry itself that it would be made by the merchants with their resources, but in discussions with the Ministry of Economics as responsible policy-makers of the sector, the government came to the conclusion that it would be useful to entrust this system to the State Construction Control Office and build it on the basis of the single construction information system. As such a decision was made last year by changing the original concept, of course, the State Building Control Office needs time to incorporate a new model into the existing construction information system... Module H2. And for that, too, these few months are foreseen. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks to support the draft law at both first and second readings, determining its urgency and doing so today, in one sitting of the Saeima, without re-visiting it at the meeting of the committee.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U153	Thank you. So, first of all, we must vote in favour of declaring the draft law urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Taxes and Fees” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Taxes and Fees”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. And the Commission is asking for this to be discussed today in the second, final, reading. Does one of the Members object to the second reading of the draft law at this parliamentary sitting - without re-examination by the committee responsible? ( Interface: “No. ” ) There are no objections. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Taxes and Fees” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you. The law is passed. ( Intercretion: Thank you!) ) On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the State of Latvia””, first reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Raivis Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U154	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! This is a technical amendment, but at the same time an important amendment to the law “On the State coat of arms of Latvia”. Its essence is to ensure that the State Security Service, commonly known as the “Security Police”, can continue to use both the State coat of arms and other coat of arms, other than the State coat of arms, emblem and logo in visual identity. The case is that with 1 January 2019 amendments to the Ministry of the Interior system institutions and administration of prison places with special service levels have entered into force and according to them the State Security Service is no longer part of the institutions that have the right to use the coat of arms according to the law “On the Latvian State coat of arms”. The proposed amendments to the law grant this right to national safety authorities. This means that they would apply to both the Office for Constitutional Protection and the Military Intelligence and Security Service, which had already been provided for in this Law, as well as – according to the new wording – the State Security Service or the former Security Police. In order to allow the State Security Service to legally use the relevant symbol as soon as possible, the Commission asks to support the urgency of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U155	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the State of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent. The Commission is asking to support the draft law at first reading. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the State of Latvia””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against - 1, it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U156	Ladies and gentlemen, if there is no objection, on behalf of the Commission, I ask my colleagues to examine it now and to support it at second, final, reading as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U157	Are Members opposed to the examination of the draft law without re-examination by the committee responsible? There is no objection. Please call me! We will vote for support for the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the State of Latvia””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, We have reached the agenda for our own motions. Draft decision “On 13 898 Latvian citizens’ collective application “Undo compensation for Members who have lost their parliamentary mandate!” the way forward.’ On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - Member Janīna Kursīte-Pakule.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U158	President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, On 28 November 2018, the Saeima received a collective application from 13 898 Latvian citizens “Cancel compensation of Members who have lost their mandate!” . On 19 December 2018, the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications listened to the authorised representative of the applicants, who indicated that the existing compensation procedure gives members of the Saeima undue privileges, and therefore called for changes to the Law on the Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions. Members of the Commission supported further progress in the application and proposed that it be referred to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, which is competent for the Law on the Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions regulating Members' Compensation. Therefore, on the basis of the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Section 131.5 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, the Commission prepared the draft decision of the Saeima “On a collective application of 13 898 Latvian citizens “Cancel off compensation for Members who have lost their mandate of the Saeima!” further progress”, which provides for this collective application to be submitted to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government for further evaluation. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U159	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the collective application of 13 898 Latvian citizens “Cancel compensation of Members who have lost their mandate of the Saeima!” the way forward’! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 945 Latvian citizens “banning gambling medicinal products throughout the territory of Latvia””. On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - Member Janīna Kursīte-Pakule.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U160	Dear colleagues, On November 29, 2018, the Saeima received a collective application from 10 945 Latvian citizens entitled “banning gambling medicines throughout the territory of Latvia”. On 19 December 2018, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima started its initial assessment of the application and heard a representative of the applicants, who pointed out that a much stricter regulation of the gambling sector was needed, with the exception of casino luxury hotels. At the same time, the gambling tax forms part of the revenue of the state budget. Having assessed all the information received, the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications decided unanimously at its meeting on 19 December 2018 to prepare the Saeima’s draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 945th Latvian citizens’ collective application “banning gambling medicines throughout the territory of Latvia”. And we propose that it be passed on to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission for further evaluation. Please support the prepared draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U161	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Juris Jušas.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U162	Welcome again, colleagues. It has now come to me as one of the drivers of this initiative. And I would like to remind you that the author of the initiative is the New Conservative Party, which, in response to the critical situation with regard to the consequences of gambling and the fact that it is no longer possible to delay, launched this initiative. Thanks to the participation platform ManaBalss.lv, the necessary 10,000 - and even more - were collected in a very short time! - signature. And the fact that these many thousands of signatures were collected in such a short time indicates that this is really a real problem. The problem, which at the moment leads to the self-destruction of the people of Latvia. We all see it very well and we know that we all have an individual experience. One of our loved ones, friends, has certainly faced this tragedy. This is certainly not an entertainment, as the entertainment industry is trying to do. This is the way in which the nation is made poorer. Families and individuals are being brought to ruin. We know that every year the gambling industry... In 2017, it had an income of 280 million, and last year they may have been very similar; perhaps even more from this gambling business. It is money, it is the amount for which the poorer people of Latvia have been made. And it is wrong to believe that tax would not be paid on these revenues if the amendments to the law were adopted, which would result in a very substantial, radical restriction on the distribution of these gambling medicines. It's money that would go into the economy anyway, it's money that families would have used much more meaningfully and more suited to their needs. I would like to say that the situation we are seeing today in Latvia with regard to these gaming halls - you will not see such a situation anywhere else in Europe. This gaming hall is degraded by the urban environment. These gaming halls, as I said, are not a place of entertainment for people to spend their free time. Unfortunately, these are places... These are the last places of hope for people who are already on the verge of poverty. They're going there in the hope that they're finally winning. But we know very well that these gaming halls do not give this opportunity in the long term. All these people are losing. And, of course, these gaming halls bring not only this economic damage, they really degrade people, they destroy and destroy families. And, of course, it must also be said here that many criminal ideas are actually born in these gambling halls. We know that to satisfy their addiction to gambling, these people are prone to crime. It's fraud, it's theft, it's even murder. Of course, we are very well aware that the main value in Latvia and anywhere else in the world is a man. However, we can see that there is now a legal business that does not bring absolutely no benefit to society. No use! This business is unfortunately only with devastating consequences. If we do not respond and do not make radical restrictions in the shortest possible time-frame... Because if we leave this business in four-star and five-star hotels... These are the places where tourists arrive, these are the places where really people who... the rare people to whom it could be entertainment, then let them go there and have fun! But the first thing we need is at least to remove these gaming halls from the human eyes, limiting their availability as much as possible. In launching and guiding this initiative, we have carried out a survey and a study. More than 80 percent of Latvia's population supports radical restrictions on gaming halls, and we already see that on average between 80-85% of the population of Latvia is opposed to it in a number of cities where an additional gaming hall has been tried or proposed to be opened and where surveys have been carried out. I believe that we must not ignore the will of these citizens, all the more because we are aware of all the tragic consequences of gambling addiction. It is an official disease, it is actually a huge loss because we have these dependent people. And there are also the complexes going up there. It's not just gambling addiction, it actually goes along with alcohol addiction. The most strange thing is that we have been looking for almost 30 years to see how this industry is expanding and developing, but we have not seen absolutely no research, no official data, which would point to this possible and actual damage caused by this legitimate business. And we know that there are really thousands of people suffering from this disease. We see the critical consequences of this disease, namely the ruined lives of people, the lives of families. We see that people are forced to go into economic exile in order to pay huge debts. I call on all really to support this initiative with the greatest responsibility and to adopt these amendments as soon as possible so that we can take away this evil from the Latvian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U163	The name of Member Juta Stricky.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U164	No wonder I think no one will talk here against. For no reason, I think that today I will all vote in favour, because no one will dare to object to such obvious things as Mr Jušas spoke about. And why don't I think someone will try to put this draft decision in a drawer, drag it in the length, don't look... And what I wanted to say is we know all the dependents. All of these sponsors are dependent! ( FROM a faction: “Observations! ” ) Anyone who receives money in donations or otherwise depends on the operators of gambling business. ( Interface: “It will already depend on you, on coalition! ” ) I therefore promise that we will follow closely the draft decision and will not forget about our task and our promises to the voters for a day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U165	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? No, no. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 945 Latvian citizens “banning gambling medicinal products throughout the territory of Latvia””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda of the sitting has been examined, but I must inform you of the question put to you by Members. Members Zarins, Krišāns, Lochmele-Lunova, Agešins and Adamson submitted the question “On the implementation of aid for subsidised electricity generation for economic operators without coordination between the European Commission”. This question has been tabled as a matter of urgency and is referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs for a reply. Please call me! Members' registration regime! Dear colleagues, On 24 December, our fellow Member Ritvars Jansons celebrated the round anniversary and we congratulate him. We welcome the Members on foot. (Applause) Thank you. Time for notifications. The name of Member Arthur Rubik.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U166	Hello, colleagues! All those who wish to take part in this cooperation with the Belarusian Parliament are welcome in five minutes' time in the Yellow House for the formation of the group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U167	Name to Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U168	Hello! Yesterday the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission decided to encourage the establishment of a Subcommittee on Financial Sector Supervision, whose main task will be to monitor compliance with the Moneyval recommendations. That is why we ask the political groups to nominate their representatives, to a maximum of two before Monday 14 January at 6 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U169	Name to Member Andris Flyre.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U170	On behalf of my Member, Andra Skride, I call on all those who wish to cooperate with the Austrian Parliament to gather here in the Yellow House within 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U171	Thank you. Name to a member of the Secretary of the Saeima. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U172	Not registered: Boriss Cilevičs, Anda Čakša, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Ilmārs Dūritis, Kaspars Ģirgens, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Ivans Klementjevs, Ieva Krapāne, Arturs Toms Plēšs, Jānis Reirs, Andris Skride, Vita Anda Steela... Yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-10-PT13-512-U173	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
