ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-04-PT13-535-U1	Honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room! Sir, Dear Members of the Saeima! Ministers! Excellency! Welcome! Ladies and gentlemen! On May 4, 2019, the Saeima opened its formal sitting dedicated to the 29th anniversary of the restoration of Independence of the Republic of Latvia!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-04-PT13-535-U2	Name for a solemn address to Ināra Mūrniece, Speaker of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-04-PT13-535-U3	Sir, Dear Members of the Saeima! Ministers! Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear people! May 4 is the celebration of the rebirth of our people. Our country-wide celebration. The historic vote of 4 May 1990 restored the independence of Latvia. Fifty years of occupation came to an end that day. Our country was alive, and it won. Today we have gathered in the Saeima just like 29 years ago, when the members of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Latvia met here. This house still has memories of the great magnificence, excitement and joy that were reigning here and behind the walls of the Saeima at that time. In Latvia and everywhere in the world, where Latvians live. There has been a number of decisive votes in this Chamber, but the adoption of the Declaration of Independence is the most important event in our country's modern history. Sometimes we talk about such decisive events in the history of our nation or country as incredible success or a happy coincidence. However, when we look at them at the distance of time, it becomes clear that our actions have been very purposeful and very pragmatic, we have gone in the right direction. Nothing has happened by chance. The foundations on which all our decisive decisions are based are clear and unshakable! They gave strength 29 years ago. They are also inspired now. The state of Latvia is built on a rock. These rocks are formed by the people. Values that are important to our people are doing so. The national consciousness, the spiritual heritage of the generations, and the unwavering need of the state are the sources of our strength. Our rock is also our ambition and our ability to work. Today we are aware that both the establishment of our country 100 years ago and the restoration of its independence have been a joint, persistent work of many patriotic people. This country was built by poets and writers who inspired it; teachers and public figures who taught and explained; lawyers who wrote documents. A nation that embodied and brought forth the will of the kingdom. On this beautiful holiday, I thank all those who had and value the country of Latvia. Thank you to all Members of the Supreme Council who voted for the restoration of independence 29 years ago! All who worked hard were gathered together, organized, and planned for this day to come. A nation that inspired Members and gave them courage. Latvia's accession to the European Union and NATO have also been a long-standing, self-free work 15 years ago, involving hundreds and thousands of our fellow citizens. Politicians, diplomats, officials, society, patriots of our country in all parts of the world. Thank you all. We made our geopolitical choices together with the restoration of national independence. We have not changed and will not change this choice. Thank you also to the Members of the Saeima, who voted in favour of the preamble to the Constitution five years ago, by introducing several eternal clauses into our constitution. They strengthen the foundations of our country and the democratic system of the state. This was an important step forward in strengthening the long-term statehood of Latvia, which was also carefully prepared. Another rockstone on which we can base our future. Ladies and gentlemen! Together we have decided that this year is the Year of the Heroes in our country. We honor heroism and courage. Courage and self - sacrifice. Faith for victory and higher idea. We honor our armed forces, because this year it is 100 years since the establishment of the Latvian army. We take a closer look at the events of Independence War and see with which self - sacrifice and purpose it was fought. The Latvians are like bees. Our soldiers were thus characterized by the sculptor Kristaps Gulbis. The bees do not attack themselves, but if they are offended, they defend, fight, and are ready to die for their home, family and freedom. It was the Latvian army that was born 100 years ago. Since the restoration of our independence, we have strengthened our security step by step. On 23 August 1991, the law “On the Landguard of the Republic of Latvia” was adopted as one of the first laws of the re-established Republic of Latvia. Currently, it is the largest component of the National Armed Forces, which can be proud of its high level of professional training. We have a modern armed force capable of facing any kind of threat. The Latvian army is now contributing to strengthening international security, and at the same time, it is strengthened by allies from other NATO member states. In our armed forces, the hero is alive. ‘ Whatever it requires, we will protect our country!” – this is the promise of our soldiers to Latvia. And that's a great power! We, the co-legislators, have in recent years introduced the necessary changes to the law so that the armed forces can immediately protect the state from military aggression, without waiting for the decisions of individual officials, so that everyone can take part in national defence in case of war or invasion and so that everyone can respond much more flexibly. But heroism also exists in peace. Inspires heroism. This is demonstrated by those who, at crucial times, are able to break the boundaries of everyday life beyond the limits of their personal lives. Where self - sacrifice begins, heroism begins. I will mention in particular the dissidents Gunar Astra and Lidiya Doronin-Lasmani. We view them as a standard of self - respect, honesty, and also heroism. Both of these people are like bright verticals who want to be like them. Such verticals also help to be clear about the horizon. Thank you to all those who remained faithful to the idea of independence during the Soviet occupation! Those who stood firm and fearless in their views. Today we are looking at the heroes of the new centenary. We gather stories about people who inspire and entertain others. Those who are selfless and purposeful work to make Latvia better. Honourable Members! We have strong verticals. What is our horizon? What would we see if we missed a look at our country? Next to the castles we would also see the huts. Both, it's too much in this landscape. I am talking about the inequalities that exist in our societies, which are seriously worrying people today. For many inequalities in our country, the scale of which would allow it to be managed much better. Manage so that everyone can feel happier. Equal opportunities are one of the key principles which must be managed in a democratic, legal and socially responsible country. This applies to social protection, health care, education, any public goods. We must make a very targeted effort to reduce the risks of poverty and invest our efforts in this for all institutions! I believe we can do that. Our fellow people do not have to suffer because they have lived in Soviet times or have worked in a job where more pensions could not be earned. Our many children’s families do not need to live poorer because they want to be richer. Experts who have chosen a profession, who follow their heart’s voice, and who serve society through their work, do not have to feel undervalued because of abnormally low wages. People with disabilities should be given greater social security, and more access to society should be possible. Our great political goal must now be to make Latvia both richer and fairer. We need to step up our efforts to make people more prosperous, to give them more equal opportunities and justice. We can do that! Colleagues! The main source of happiness for people in Latvia is family, health and love. This is also reflected in public opinion studies. Family, health, and love make people happy. Money as the main source of happiness is not considered. However, it remains to look only on the other hand so that we can see that it is the lack of money that most suppresses people. No, people don't dream of castles. They just don't want to live in huts. If we have been able to work hard to achieve very high national goals, then we must also be able to overcome the current major problem – inequality. It hinders the country from developing more effectively. It makes it more difficult to call compatriots more actively from economic emigration. It weakens the sense of belonging to its own country. It does not make people feel happy. And it ruins our strength. That's what's going on in our barn. Ladies and gentlemen! Honourable Members! Everyone here! In these years, we as a nation have grown up and become more mature than 29 or 20 years ago. With the development of almost incredible pace, we have grown politically, economically and legally. But we are now facing a new turning point. When Europe stands at a crossroads. It is changing, and it will be different in the near future. And the reasons are different. The world is now living under the changing global paradigm. The technological industries have changed the flow of information, communication channels, the labour market, our whole life and our perception of life. Human opportunities and expectations have changed. But politics seems to have become more complicated, boring, remoter. The European Union's governance is indeed heavy and slow. The citizens of the countries of the European Union feel too much "regulated" in various areas. And sometimes there is a feeling that Brussels has become a kind of citadel or fortress, which is not easily accessible and which is not flexible enough. However, Brussels must be a strong centre, united with us by a continuous, lively link. Many look forward to the elections to the European Parliament because they are aware that the composition of the Parliament will be much different from that of the past. Like our 13th. The family is different from several previous families. As in Estonia, Finland and other European countries, Parliaments have changed since the last elections. However, public support for a single Europe is greater than ever, and support for the euro is also a record high. Sociological data suggest this. It is democracy that is born in Europe, it is Europe that has given the world the ideas of humanity, equality and solidarity. Europe respects the culture and traditions of its peoples, respects its national identity. Europe has managed to remain rational through the centuries. Deal with trials. That is why populism will have no future in Europe in the negative sense of this word. The sense of community and the foundations on which the European identity is based are stronger than the turn of the age. History proves this. Sources of Latvian force also flow from Europe. We did not lose the European identity during the 50 years of occupation. Like Lithuania and Estonia. And we're not going to lose. The European renaissance will take place. The spirit of Europe is strong and viable. It is this awareness that we need to go to the European Parliament elections in just three weeks' time. Let us vote in favour of those who are capable of preserving and strengthening Europe. For those who value Europe. It is our civilisation, it is our opportunity to strengthen our national sovereignty while strengthening our European sense of unity. Ladies and gentlemen! When we think about Latvia, we have the happiness and privilege to build on strong foundations. However, we must continue to strengthen and expand these foundations. We need to be aware of our ability to work purposefully and hard. The Saeima and the government, Mr Kariņš and the honourable ministers, face a number of important challenges in the coming years. The main challenges at present are reducing inequalities, strengthening state security, combating corruption, regularising the financial system and supporting families with children. The government, which, although long and difficult, has immediately taken on one of the most pressing tasks of the present time – to sort out the financial system. The government's commitment not only to implement the recommendations of international organisations on the fight against financial crime, but to go further and build one of the best financial systems in Europe, is encouraging. This is very necessary to restore confidence in our financial sector. It is also very important that we are working hard to develop a comprehensive system of national defence. We are a country that honours the commitment of NATO member states to provide two percent of gross domestic product for protection, and we want to increase this contribution. Strong transatlantic cooperation is a crucial prerequisite for Latvia's security. Working together with the United States and Canada can make us feel secure. Together with Estonia, Lithuania and Poland we have written a new page in NATO history, implementing NATO's expanded presence in our countries. As part of the NATO Battle Group Latvia is currently helped to protect the soldiers of nine countries. Thank you for that. Particular attention should be paid to combating corruption and mitigating corruption risks. After several searches and detentions at the end of last year, people began talking about the KNAB Advent calendar, which reveals new violations. We are witnessing that a large municipal company, one of the largest employers in the country, has become a kind of symbol of how many possible corrupt transactions and irregularities can be in one institution. I hope not only for the active action of KNAB and other law enforcement authorities, but also for the day when there will be a clear conviction in society that corruption is being combated in a targeted way. Early or late selfishness, greed, fraud will be punished. Thanks to the more active functioning of KNAB and other responsible bodies, such hope continues to be valid. One of the most important promises of our politicians for the future of our people is to build Latvia as the most friendly country for families with children. But the family is one of the main sources of human happiness. Couplas and strong families are one of the strong pillars of our country. Therefore, the fundamental task of our policy is to make people in Latvia feel happy. Make them feel safe in their country. Pray for your country. And I would like to be its future with my children. Dear people! All Latvian patriots! History and today show that the power of our people is greater than we ourselves. Our nation's government is stronger than foreign powers and conquerors. The country of Latvia has been born and reborn in the most difficult circumstances, but we have always been based on love for Latvia, against our language and against the heritage of generations. That is why we have a future. And that will be our ambition and our capacity for work. Our country is built on a rock. We ourselves are this rock. Congratulations on the day of restoration of Independence of the Republic of Latvia! The life of the sun for Latvia! God bless Latvia! (Applause) ( The national anthem of Latvia is being played.) Honourable Members! Mr. Prime Minister! Ministers! Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! Everyone here! I declare closed the official sitting of the Saeima on 4 May 2019. I invite you to celebrate the holiday together in the Saeima Red Hall!
