ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber! We will continue to examine the agenda for the meeting on 28 March 2019. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law - “Amendments to law “On meetings, moves and pickets”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U2	Good morning, honourable Members. The Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs is asking to review draft law “Amendments to law on meetings, moves and pickets” at second reading. Three proposals have been received. There is a proposal from the Member, Mr Schnores. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U3	Members are in favour. Let us start a debate. The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U4	Dear colleagues, Unfortunately, I was unable to attend the committee meeting when this issue was discussed, so I have to speak here. Colleagues, freedom of assembly is one of the fundamental human rights and this amendment proposes a new restriction on fundamental rights. In principle, this can be done if the restriction is in the legitimate interest of the public and any restriction must comply with certain requirements. Firstly, the restriction must be a legitimate objective. Secondly, which is very important, the restriction must meet the criteria of proportionality. The restriction must be necessary for a democratic society, which means that the legitimate aim cannot be achieved by other, less fundamental, means. In this case, I do not see any analysis of proportionality. And I understood why. In order to assess proportionality, the essential requirement is that the restriction should be clearly defined. And how can this restriction be clearly formulated here? Form outfit in stylized form... Those Members who were also working in previous Saeima recall the debate on the existing rule on the restriction of the use of symbols. Stylised... And there was a lot of interpretations. What is a five-star stylized form? Does this also apply to the Chinese flag? And so on. With regard to uniforms, this is even more difficult. Well, what? We're gonna get the skaters on as experts? Almost any outfit can be considered as a stylized military uniform, because the military style is now quite widespread. Colleagues, I repeat once again: here, in fact, the initiators of the amendments, continuing to fight against the ghosts of the past, want to impose a restriction on fundamental rights, which is very vaguely formulated. I really do not envy those police officers who will have to implement this rule. Are we really hoping to expect any police officer or security firm employee to assess whether the wear of a participant of a particular event is a stylised military uniform? Colleagues! I believe that such amendments cannot be accepted (in particular to the third reading!) without an evaluation, without expert opinions. And I call for a 'no' vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U5	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U6	Dear Boris Cilevič! We shouldn't open a discussion today from this platform... what has already happened in the Saeima Commission, where you weren't... This commission was your colleague, Mr Nikonov, who could pass on that information to you. The police will not have problems in this case. The police have common sense and are able to distinguish between uniforms and sweatsuits. And if we go into this proposal, then... Member Snore asks for the following changes: “... to use, also in a stylized manner, the flag of the former USSR, former republics of the USSR and Nazi Germany, uniforms of the forms of armed forces and repressive institutions, armions and anthems, Nazi svastics, marks of the USSR” – SS! - "and the symbols of the Soviets - the sirpi and the hammer with a five-star star;..." Very normal proposal! In the Commission, it received the support of all the parties, except... SELECTED MEMBERS. The Commission has had this discussion. We have talked about this. This disputation should not be opened here. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U7	Name to Member Edvin Schnorem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U8	Good morning, honourable colleagues! I would like to remind Mr Cilevičs that this law already in its current form prohibits the use of Soviet and Nazi symbols in a stylised manner. So that's... This... You said that freedom of assembly is limited... and so on. That is already the case. From all this long version, which Mr. Neighbours has now read, my proposal is only about uniforms... include them there. And why? Because... I remind you... that since 2013, the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia has included an article that we condemn Nazi and Communist crimes. And these crimes were committed by people who were dressed in forms. And so it's quite logical that these forms are also prohibited from exhibiting at public events. That is also the essence of my proposal. Indeed, all the members of the Commission supported this proposal, but only SAVE. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U9	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U10	Dear colleagues, First of all, I would like to clarify. Mr Cilevič said that there should be no change at third reading. But we are working on this document at second reading. And that doesn't mean... I'm sorry... and that means that, in principle, if Mr Cilevičs believes that there are some improvements to be made, these are possible. On the substance of the proposal, there is also an opportunity to listen to an audio record of our sitting, in which you can hear... and those who have an interest will be able to hear that we have been discussing this proposal for quite a long time, trying to understand how to apply this rule, what is the scope of the norm, and whether it will be easy for the police to work on such amendments. And all the questions were answered. But when it comes to the substance of the proposal... We are talking about the law governing the order of demonstrations, myths, pickets, and it must be understood that we are not talking about human privacy. If, for example, he has a uniform at home, he can store it and there are no problems. But if there's a political event like a headquarters or a demonstration... I have a question: why should a person take part in such a uniform, either by the Nazis or by the USSR? I don't see the point. It is no secret that such symbols are used in our society to bring about disloyalty. If a person has political considerations, the aim is to focus on some of the problems, please, you can take part in the events and express your views, but is it really easier to express your views if a person has a uniform - that is something that I very much doubt. I also asked during the commission meeting about the stylised way and how the police will be able to work, but we really... I want to repeat: we received answers. On the substance of the question... Well, there's no doubt, I think, colleagues... Mr Cilevičs' concern is not whether anyone will come to the event in the Nazi uniform, because it does not walk, and it is clear to everyone that, if it were to happen, there would be a great deal of indignation and reaction in society. The issue is the uniform of the USSR. But I ask you to note that in the law from the very beginning we are talking about two totalitarian regimes. For us one regime is not better than the other. We realize that one did a lot of evil, and the other did too. We therefore ban symbols of both regimes, but there is no real need to take part in uniforms. Consequently, I believe that we can support the proposal in question. And for the third reading, of course, if there is any good idea, proposals can be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U11	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U12	Good morning, honorable Bureau! Thank you, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, This proposal is, of course, not about clothing. This proposal... Its objective is completely different: to compare the ideology of communism with the ideology of national socialism. ( Interface: ‘ That’s it! ’) ) This attitude is based on a deliberate distortion of historical events (NA intermediate: Ooo!) ), but, reinforced by legal norms (Interface: “Oh, yes!” )... but, strengthened by the rule of law, deceives and offends those who fought against the Nazis in the Second World War and won heavy battles. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Col’s intermediate call.) Veterans of the Soviet army who participated in the war, as well as the memory of partisans and grims, are insulted. This proposal has a very high political burden. With this proposal, we can divide our societies further. I understand that for those who were incarcerated in concentration camps without investigation and trial, it was not important that a flag spread over the barrack - red with a fire in a white circle or red with a sickle and a hammer. Emotional assessment of events and history can be made, although emotional attitude is always superficial, but the politician cannot rely on experience, but on facts and analysis. There was no symmetry between the Soviet regime and the Nazi regime. ( The utterances: “Uow! ”) ) The history of the Soviets was both a history of spiritual prosperity, loss and fall, and a history of heroic works, victories, and losses, and a history of errors and crimes. However, in the history of national socialism there is only war, the shooting of civilian prisoners and the chauvinism declared to be state ideology. But first of all, it was a terrible war and only a war. When making a decision, please remember that, by supporting this proposal, we are like an aggressor who was fought by the whole world, a country that suffered the most and won. We know well that it was not only the Soviet Union that won that war. There were many injuries and wounds on the body of national socialism that injured these predators, but the Soviet army made a deadly wound. I would also like to remind you that the condemnation of Nazism would not even be possible, our conversation would not even be possible if Soviet troops had not gone their difficult way from Volga to Elba. And today it would not even be a question whether the Soviet regime was guilty if it had not been a victory that the whole world acknowledged before. I will quote the speech of the former German President, Rihard von Eszeker, with whom he addressed the Bundestag on 8 May 1985, in connection with the 40th anniversary of the end of World War II and the national socialist tyranny in Europe. ( The utterance: “Time! ”) ) He said: “On August 23, 1939, Germany and the Soviet Union signed a no-attack pact. The secret additional protocol provided for the forthcoming division of Poland. This pact was signed to give Hitler the opportunity to invade Poland. The leaders of the Soviet Union were fully aware of this, and everyone who understood politics was aware that the German and Soviet Union pact would have consequences for Hitler's invasion in Poland and, therefore, for World War II. But this does not reduce Germany's responsibility for the beginning of the Second World War. The Soviet Union was ready to allow countries to fight each other so that they could participate in the division of territories." And then the most important, gentlemen! ‘ However, the war initiative came from Germany and not from the Soviet Union. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Butan: “Who signed the Molotova-Ribbentrop Pact?” ) It was Hitler who decided to use force,” the German President said. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Butan: “If you don’t know history, don’t talk from the barn!” ) “The beginning of the Second World War is always in the middle. Noise in the hall.) will remain related to the name of Germany, not to the Soviet Union.’ ( Milestones.) That is why the international court in Nuremberg criminalised the Nazi regime, not because the Soviet Union, together with its allies, won the war and became the founder of the United Nations and a member of the UN Security Council. With this proposal, its authors offer the Saeima to review the results of the Second World War. It will offend the Latvian community and may become another international scandal that will only make Latvia more ashamed. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Herbs-Gross intermediate call.) I call for this proposal not to be supported. Thank you. ( Intercretion: “Uow! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U13	The name to Member Boris Cilevič for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U14	Thank you. Colleagues! However, I call for a return to the legal dimension of the problem. Mr. Neighbours! I am very pleased that you have learned to read very well and have excellently read this text, which you have already read. Unfortunately, I really... I did not participate in the committee sitting because I had to take part in the Constitutional Court sitting. I'm so sorry about that. One of your colleagues from the Russian Parliament has ever said that Parliament is not a place for discussion. I think you're... you will agree with such a statement that there is nothing to discuss. Unfortunately, however, there is something to discuss. You are Chairman of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, but you did not say a word about fundamental rights, so that is the key issue that we should all think and care about. Mr. Schnore! Thank you for your comments, but it is also about that... the symbolism is already prohibited, and it is about a uniform uniform without a symbol ban. And how will you then determine that... Without a symbol all uniforms are very similar. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Cols: “A red star... “ And then... It is a great pleasure for me that Mr Judine understood everything, but I would like those Members who heard the police answers and explanations, well, to share with others, because I really find it very difficult to imagine what criteria can be distinguished from a stylised uniform in the military style. Because actually... Yes, thank you to Mr Judin for setting at least the legitimate aim. Well, I don't think you convinced me. However, I would like to emphasise the most important thing. I am very sorry that no one in the parliament of a democratic state is willing to talk about fundamental rights and the situations in which fundamental rights may be restricted when discussing this issue. I really regret it, and I still believe that such amendments cannot be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U15	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U16	Dear colleagues, I'm really ashamed that 13. The Saeima has such a check, which is located in the bags of the cheque and still represents the Kremlin's narratives here in the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia. 12. The Saeima was too cowardly to punish and exclude such a Member for at least several sittings. Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications, I hope this, 13. In the Saeima, Igors Pimenovs will be excluded from the work of the Saeima Member for at least several sittings for a gross violation of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia. (Applause) From the fraction DECLARES: “In prison at once!” ) Regarding the very nature of the proposal. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zariņš’ intermediate call.) Let us remember that the first ally of Nazi Germany during the Second World War was no other country than the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. The USSR was the first ally of Nazi Germany, and together they destroyed the independent state of Poland; together they began hostilities against Finland, occupied the Baltic States, the Romanian region... In this situation, I think it is also particularly shameful that Boris Cilevič, who in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe says that we are defending human rights, does not want to defend the human rights of the Holocaust and the victims of political repression. Human rights do not see their more powerful uniforms on independent streets of Latvia. It is their human rights - not to look at those who have repressed them, who have killed their family members. I call for this proposal to be supported. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U17	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U18	Dear President, Honourable Members! I was also somewhat provoked by Mr. Pimenova's speech. Come here and lie that the Second World War was not initiated by the Soviet Union, forgetting about murders, rapes, shooting thousands of Polish officers... Mr. Pimenova, you've never heard of it, of course, if? You didn't learn it in the KGB courses. Next. A huge number of Occupants and their descendants, after this army invasion, remained in Latvia and live here. This community is too big to live in one territory with culturally and mentally different Latvians and not hinder its development, contrary to the experience of European countries. And that's what we see. Mr. Pimenov! In the country, without any justification, the so-called five-star symbolicly-designated occupying armies remained Soviet extortions, army, officers of the home system, propagandaists, specialists with families and a closed agency. They're working here. And by the end. All the Latvian Members should remind us of what we have put in the preamble to the Constitution. Latvia still does not understand that only Latvian nation members are responsible and can decide on existential national and state affairs. Therefore, it is not possible to allow the Kremlin propaganda, which continues in both the media, the Riga City Council and the Saeima. I call for support for the proposal. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U19	The name to the Member, Andrejs Judin, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U20	Concerning amendments: Colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to at least three aspects. First thing. We are not talking about a person’s birthday or meeting friends or participating in some other activities in a dress. The law applies to public events - demonstrations, pickets, myths. And so it's not human private life; there we shouldn't interfere and limit. We are talking about public measures. The second thing. It must be understood that a person appears in such a uniform, not because he has nothing to wear, and that is the only clothing he can come to the event. He's doing it to show you something, to show you something. Given that its form is related to totalitarian regimes, well, I am sorry to see it as an indication that a person is supporting them, a person wants to say something to the public, a person wants to justify the actions of the regimes in question. I think it is unacceptable in a democratic society, it is unacceptable. You like it or you don't like it, but the form is a symbol. And this symbol, which is a symbol of totalitarian regimes, would not be useful. I can only repeat that we talked a lot about it in our commission, when we looked at it, and none of the Members voted against this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U21	The name to the Member Atm Lejny.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U22	Colleagues! I... It had already been said earlier what attacked Poland. But I would just like to remind you, on the basis of a verbatim report, that there was a treaty called the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact. Are we here... someone on the left has also forgotten that there was the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact... 23 August 1939... What led to World War II? Because when the Germans invaded Poland with Stalin’s consent, the English declared war against Germany. It's Poland the same. When did the Nazi army enter Poland, what happened on the other side? The Poles had to fight on two fronts! On the other hand, the Red Army came in. And that was not enough! Do you know that a joint military parade took place in Poland following a joint victory in Poland: in Poland, the Nazi army marched together with the Red Army over the bodies of Polish soldiers? And who taught Stalin, the Soviet Union, how to build concentration camps? Look at the photos! These were the German Gestapo officers who traveled to Russia and taught them how to install concentration camps. ( INTERCREATE FROM THE GROUP: “Lies! ” ) There is no lie! Everything's in the archives! Melly?Oh, no, Ree, is that a lie?Oh, no, Did you hear that? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) And more. Finally, I want to tell you what happened in the Baltics? What promises Stalin did not make! ‘ We will send troops only against the chitleric Germany, so that they will not attack you, we will protect your neutrality.” Did he protect our neutrality? Grossly... Then she lied! Then she lied! The second day we took over our country! At the same time, they worked with Nazi Germany in Poland. Remember that, please. No false news anymore! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U23	The name to Member Igor Pimenov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U24	Thank you. Dear Members, Both Member Leienny, Member Dombrava and Member Kirštein are unlikely to answer better than the former German President Rihards von Esper, but I would simply like to say even more articulately than I did before, Mr Ati Leieniņa. ‘ Anyone who understood politics was aware that the German-Soviet Union Pact would have consequences for Hitler's invasion in Poland and, as a result, for World War II." The war initiative, however, (Dep. R. Col’s intermediate call.) continued by the President, “it came from Germany, not from the Soviet Union. It was Hitler who decided to use power. The beginning of the Second World War will always be linked to the name of Germany and not to the Soviet Union." ( End quoted) I'll just go on with one sentence. That's why the International War Tribunal in Nuremberg criminalized the Nazism regime. I would simply like us not to forget the obvious facts and these quotations, because otherwise the new generation will study a completely different history than it was. ( The utterances: “Uow! ”) ) Please do not support this proposal. ( Insight: “Courageing the National Hate ”!) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U25	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U26	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! I simply believe that I have to tell you before the vote why I voted and on which I voted. In particular, this proposal is no longer about uniforms. It's about having a Balagan to have a debate (dep. J. Kursīte-Pakule: Debate! ), because when you have to adopt a budget that cannot place any of your promises, when there is no idea how to develop your country, there is an old, good medicine (Interviews from NA and UK.) - Victory monument that could be broken down, painted or played around it. Now, forms. The incentive, which in no way... allow a full interpretation of which form. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Herbs-Gross intermediate call.) But there is one good thing - the knowledge of history will be promoted, the police will open their books, explore the forms and try to adapt them to reality. My call would be simply to stop taking part in this Balagan (from the UK Group: “Go away!” ), because the Second World War, gentlemen, has long been over! You're just left here. ... You're the only soldier you've left here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U27	The name to Member Artus Neimins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U28	Dear colleagues, I would ask for a little silence. There has been a very unpleasant precedent, while we are talking about it, it will be possible or will not be able to be in our free country in one or another form of dress. Recently, a telebridge with Russia Today was made on “Latvian Television”. ‘ On Latvian Television, on national television. Currently we are in the building of the highest decision-making power of Latvia, and there are currently two propaganda channels in the Kremlin. ( Intercretion: “Tri! ” One is RenTV, the other is Rossia RTR, which is still banned from broadcasting in Latvia. Here is the first operator – Rakurss.lv. The other - Baltvideo News, which is from Russia Today. And the problem is one. They really have accreditation. The terms of accreditation in the Cabinet of Ministers were developed in 1998. At the moment, accreditation rules do not allow these people, who are not loyal to Latvia (Interface from the Group: “What connection to the proposal?” ), which makes up our country as a negative country, get out and get out of the way. Please stay away from the provocations that this flank is trying to do right now! Please don't go any more, don't talk, all of you, or you're going to be in Moscow today for distorted speeches, for assembled texts. Please support this proposal, and let's go! Please, National Union, come on, because that is just where it is needed! The Cabinet of Ministers, in turn, hastened to change the terms of accreditation, including - regarding the Saeima, so that such cases no longer occur. It's a really dangerous signal. I do not know where it is even more dangerous if we have Russian television here in the building of the highest decision-making power, in an official way. What are we talking about? (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U29	Colleagues! We are continuing the debate. The name to Member Edvin Schnorem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U30	Dear colleagues, With regard to what Mr Pimenova said about who has caused the Second World War and how it has happened. I would like to point out that in Latvia the Second World War began on 17 June 1940, when the Soviet Union occupied Latvia. What this occupation has brought to Latvia can you make sure by participating in the... On 25 March, going to the measures, talking to the oppressed... Tens of thousands were deported to the Soviet Union, hundreds of thousands have suffered from occupation. And to tell you here that the Soviet occupation is better than the Nazi occupation, here in Latvia, to do it - well, it is not particularly adequate. That is what I would like to point out. What Mr. Cilevič said about freedom. I really don't think I'm going to see that day when Mr Cilevič will climb here in Parliament and say that human rights are to walk in the form of Nazis in public. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. B. Cilevičs: “Stylised!” ) If there is such a wish, it can be done in private house, but in no way in public or in Latvia. And the last thing I would like to emphasise is that human rights... Here in Latvia, human rights are also the case for those who have suffered from these occupations, both from the Nazis and the Communists. And they have the right not to look every year at the celebration of the occupation and at the people dressed in these forms where these crimes were committed. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U31	Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U32	Honourable Members! The family has done its job. The Criminal Law of the Republic of Latvia contains a norm that justifying crimes against peace is a criminal act. Nazi Germany and the Communist Soviet Union committed a crime against peace, both responsible for the Second World War and equally responsible for this crime. The justification of the crimes from this tribunal is not acceptable. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U33	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U34	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! Today I am listening to this debate and I understand that perhaps many are out of place. We are still in Latvia. We are neither in the Soviet Union nor in Nazi Germany. And when I separate my home... and definitely you also distinguish your family albums and see your ancestors in Latvia - Latvia's country, the first free country! - forms in clothes, we're proud of that. We are raised, we remember how our ancestors fought and defended Latvia. And what has to do with some Nazis or the Red Army? Of course, as a citizen of the Republic of Latvia, I do not want to see people walking in the streets in Nazi forms, nor do I want to see people walking in the streets in the suits of the Red Army. That is why I believe that it is precisely for patriotic reasons... because we are Latvian citizens - Latvians, Russians, Poles... and our ancestors, who lived in the times of the first free state, respect Latvian uniforms, as well as our ancestors, both Russians, Latvians and Poles, hated those who conquered the country of Latvia, both of them. That is why I think this proposal should be supported. We cannot by any means allow people to walk in the streets of Latvia, present-day Latvia, free Latvia, in the forms of the Nazis or the Soviet Union. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U35	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U36	Good morning! It's not funny, Juta Strike, to be indecent in the parliament. There's no orangutans, but the Saeima... the President of the People. What I want to say is that the war is quite out of date. It was, of course, interesting for me to listen to the reasoning that was being heard both on the one hand and on the other. Both sides are right in this argument. ( Interface: “Ooo! ” ) But it is not true for both sides in the sense that... I'm going to turn to position from the beginning. And I will point out to you that this debate does not in any way contribute to demographics. Where were you talking about many children’s families yesterday? You're in silence! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Lejiņš: “Speak about the thing!” ) Where were you to speak yesterday? ... when were other issues about the development of Latvia's country to be decided? ( Intersidental names of those in the position.) I am also addressing the other side. I understand that the National Associations and this flank love dance - it is a scenario developed for years, but it does not contribute to the development of Latvia's country. It has nothing to do with it. I wonder about you that you are talking only about forms. The forms of soldiers. I have to say that nobody is good at war. There's no good in the war! There's only the bad in the war. Kill both sides. But there is another point that is important to say. If we are with self-esteem, then we should climb into the barn and not be afraid to say that in 2019 at the Freedom Monument, soldiers form uniforms. ( Intercretion: “And they were punished! ” ) And such soldiers, who are yelling at the Freedom Monument in 2019, must be expelled from Latvia! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “And those who eat pups! What to do with them?” ) It is necessary to talk about this from the parliamentary tribunal. I think we devote too much time to what happened when we did not know. That will not make our country better. We need to talk today about the future development of our country, when there will be a demographic explosion and how we will protect our country... Forms of soldiers in the future. I had initially intended to vote in favour of the proposal made by the National Alliance. When I listened to the debate, I changed my point of view. I changed it again. And why did I change this view on several occasions? ( The interns of NA and UK Members.) Because this issue, which we are debating at the moment, is not the most topical and essential issue. In fact, this is a minor issue for the development of our country. We do not need to have discussions in our Parliament about almost 100 years of history. ( The interns of NA and UK Members.) We need to have discussions in our Parliament about how we see our country in 20, 30, 50 and 100 years' time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Zālīte-Gross: “Who wanted to leave this country, his dear country?” ) And what I also call on Members who do not, at times, behave here in the way that the fronts of the people are faced with flying and searching for pieces of cardboard by parliament... I call on Members to call our country not "this country", but in any future discussion Latvia is called "our country". ( Milestones.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U37	I closed the debate. Is there another explanation in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U38	Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U39	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Schnores's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 67, no, 22, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U40	2. - Schnore's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U41	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dace Rukšāne-Šchipčinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U42	Hello, colleagues! I'm a little bit on another subject. I strongly support Mr Schnore's proposals, but I would like to draw attention to others - those from the Ministry of Justice that came up earlier and that we have seen once.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U43	Colleagues! I must remind you that, according to the Rules of Procedure, we are currently debating only proposal 2 and not the previous legislative texts. The agenda contains proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U44	All right. I will simply say then that some important proposals will be put forward for the third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U45	Thank you. Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U46	Madam President, Honourable Members! Thank you very much for such a meaningful debate. The positions are selected. But I have a wish to tell you that the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia has been restored for 25 years. Many thousands of laws and other documents have been adopted, but not every quarter of the century the Latvian legislators have not drawn attention to the clothing of people walking on the streets of our cities. In a free and democratic country, people have the right to express themselves according to their own perceptions of beauty, although others do not like it. Yes, it happens that among the inhabitants of Latvia there are people with honorable awards they received at the fronts of the Great Fatherhood War. But they look best at military mundiers. Why, though, should they be ashamed or ashamed of their reward or form that they have received legally from their country? It no longer exists, but when the USSR existed, it was an internationally recognised state. Some former paratroopers, seabirds, are not much older than me. They too like blue berettes. Don't forget about the reconstructions either! The reference to the Communist repression of the Latvian people in this form is, in my opinion, meant... On this basis, the traditional form of the pre-war Latvian army can also be banned, as some police battalions on the back of the vormachta acted so... and even the Holocaust participants were wearing this form. Remember that in 1993, the honorary guard at the Freedom Monument was taken away by the armor-captures, because they reminded us of the form of the mermacht! It seems to me that there are some subcultures in Latvia, such as the subculture of motorcyclists. They use the so - called Hakenkreuz. This is what they have subculture. We respect all minorities, don't we? Dear colleagues, Latvia has been a member of NATO, the largest and most powerful military organisation for a period of one and a half decades. And there is no need to be afraid of a few dozen people who took part in public events in the form of the USSR. The carrying of the former form of the country is by no means a mass phenomenon. However, this type of ban is provocative because it inevitably leads to conflicts between law enforcement authorities and older people wearing such a form. Conflicts can also have tragic consequences. We must not plant the police against the elderly. And don't let Latvia's unfavorably talk about the Republic of Latvia! Different channels were mentioned here... But you give them informational basis. Will you have the courage, Members of the National Alliance, to personally detain the old men in the Soviet monasteries with the red stars? Some of you are landguards. Do you have the courage to laugh at those who cannot answer you? Drug addicts are more in danger to Latvia's order at festivals. In this respect, I would like to remind you that today's military form with pixel mask can be bought in any fishing and hunting store. People of good will in Latvia will find an asymmetric answer for those who today offer to destroy the monument in Pārdaugava or to reconstruct Viktors Araja, Bende, the team member Herberts Cūkurs, or to ban the form of the Red Army. This amendment jeopardises Latvia's national security and I demand that it be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U47	The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U48	Good morning, colleagues! We recently, on 25 March, spent the day commemorating the victims of the Communist genocide, remembering those victims, tens of thousands of Latvians who were forced by the Soviet regime from Latvia. And the servants of this regime were dressed in Soviet forms with stitches - those that we are trying to ban today with this proposal. Prior to that, similar repression against the people of Latvia was carried out by the Nazi regime. All in all, these two allies of the Second World War, the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany, repressed hundreds of thousands of Latvians – both Latvians, Russians and Jews. Big deal! Therefore, I regret that this Saeima of the Republic of Latvia is free to hear the propaganda of the Kremlin from the left flank. And I think that the vote on this proposal and the previous proposal... there is no distinction between who of us is in favour of a government that is in the position that is in the opposition. These votes show who of us is a member of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia and who is simply an agent of the Kremlin with the task of representing the interests of the Russian Federation here in the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U49	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U50	Yeah. On behalf of the Commission, I can add that indeed the forms are banned, but all the awards received, including medals and medals, can be held wherever they want and whenever they want, anywhere and wherever they want. That is why I would also ask for support for proposal 2. This was supported by the Commission. The only ones who abstained were SATISFIED.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U51	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Schnores's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U52	3. is a technical proposal, a proposal from the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U53	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U54	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U55	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Meetings, Steps and Pickets” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -69, against -21, refrains - not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U56	10 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U57	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 April this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to Land Books Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U58	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has drafted the draft law “Amendment to the Land Book Law” and asks to support it at the first reading of the Saeima. Private transactions can also be made in electronic form, with a secure electronic signature, but we have no regulation in law so that the relevant documents, together with an electronically certified request of the sworn notary, can be submitted in a land register in a secure, clear and uniform manner. Therefore, the draft law provides: if the transaction is electronically closed in private order and the signature of a private person on the request for reinforcement is certified in accordance with the procedure laid down in the section “Electronic acts and attestations” of the Notarial Law, the notary shall be obliged to submit the request for reinforcement and the documents attached thereto in electronic form in the Land Register according to the principle of one-stop shop upon the request of a private person. Indeed, this draft law is necessary for the process of strengthening the transaction in the Land Register to continue to be as effective and modern as possible, and for the submission of documents in the Land Register to take place under the supervision of a sworn notary, thus reducing the number of operations carried out and the time spent by private individuals. This amendment to the law will of course not prevent persons from continuing to use paper form. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U59	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on Land Books Act! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U60	On behalf of the Commission, please set 11 April this year as the deadline for submitting proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U61	April 11th?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U62	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U63	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 11 April this year. Colleagues! The agenda of the sitting has been examined. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Time for notifications. Dear colleagues, Today's birthday is celebrated by Member Vladimir Niconov and we welcome him! (Applause) Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U64	Colleagues, use this break! And Members who are in the group of MEPs to facilitate cooperation with the Japanese Parliament are invited to the Yellow House to elect a new group of leaders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U65	Name to Member Andris Flyre.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U66	Colleagues! I remind you that there's a blood bus at the Saeima today. We call on our colleagues, on those present and on the workers - those who want to - to donate blood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U67	Name of the Saeima Secretary Maria Golubeva. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U68	Not registered: Gundars Dauge, Jānis Dūklavs, Vita Anda Steel and Jānis Vucans.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-04-PT13-529-U69	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting. The agenda for the meeting on 4 April will be discussed at 10.05 a.m.
