ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take a seat in the Chamber so that we can begin the sitting of the Saeima on 28 March 2019. Colleagues! Let's start the Saeima sitting! First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. The Legal Commission is asking for the draft law “Amendment to the Land Register Law” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft decision “On extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the Law “Amendments to the Law on Public Welfare Organisations” (No. 198/Lp13) for the second reading until 11 April 2019.’ Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Dzintars, Kiršteins, Strīķe, Zakaitistovs and Paviluts are asking to exclude from the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Tobacco Products, Plant Smoking Products, Electronic Smoking Devices and their Liquids”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Internouncing call.) Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of excluding from the agenda of the sitting the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Tobacco Products, Plant Smoking Products, Electronic Smoking Devices and their Liquids"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. Reports by the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. ( The ring of noise.) Do I sit for you... Is the negotiations between the parties not hindering? ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer. (See the box below.) The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “On the implementation of the Multilateral Convention for the Prevention of Tax Base Reduction and Profit Shifting Measures with respect to Tax Conventions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Road Transport” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law presented by the President of Latvia on the termination of the status of a non-citizen for children be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. On the other hand, Members Pavļuts, Kaimiņš and Judins are asking to refer the draft law “On the termination of the status of non-citizen for children” to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. We will therefore first vote in favour of the motion put forward by Members. Are Members... Is that so? I have to ask before the vote: do Members have objections to passing on the draft law to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, making it a commission responsible? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are therefore no objections. The draft law has been referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any other proposals for Members? Please turn on the microphone for Alexander Kirštein! Please turn on the microphone for Alexander Kirštein! ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U2	And the microphone, I'm sorry. How can we... if we are in principle opposed to commissioning, we have not debated how we applied... then we must vote. How can we hand it over to the commissions?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U3	Yeah, so... The question was: do Members have objections to passing the draft law on to the Commission? Members...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U4	We're already... We had already applied for a 'no' debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U5	So there was no objection to the change of commission if? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “That’s it!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U6	I don't understand...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U7	So, Members want to talk about the transfer of and against the draft law? Okay. ‘ On” applied to speak by Daniel Pavluts.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U8	Dear President of the Saeima, members of the Bureau. Members, Members! On 4 May this year, 29 years have passed since we declared that the Republic of Latvia is again an independent state. 29 years have passed. Twenty-eight years will run this year, since we are de facto an independent country with all the advantages, opportunities and responsibilities that result from it. Today, we have a draft law that has been re-submitted (because it has also been presented 12. The Saeima) has submitted the President of Latvia, and it intends to terminate the granting of the status of non-citizen to the children of non-citizens of the Republic of Latvia. 12. The Saeima lacked the courage to address this issue, which can mark the dividing line between the previous period of our independence and the future: a new direction of development. There will be people who will say: “What will happen if other people come and their children are born? Will they immediately become citizens?’ No, no. Friends, this is about non-citizens of the Republic of Latvia. Who are they? Who are the non-citizens of the Republic of Latvia? These are people who lived in the Republic of Latvia during the USSR and their descendants, who have also become non-citizens under the conditions of an independent state. You know what this status is called in English, this connection to Latvia? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Alien!” ) Alien - aliens. Colleagues! You could think that this decision poses some threat to the Republic of Latvia or to Latvians. I fear that such arguments will sound like this. I am not convinced by these arguments at all. ( Internouncing call.) How many people are there? How many such children could there be? Our cautious calculations show that in the form in which the President of Latvia has submitted this bill today, next year, from 1 January 2020, the non-citizens of the Republic of Latvia will not be granted such non-citizens children to whom it would apply, to whom we would no longer grant... has the right to choose the status of non-citizen... There could be about 30... about 30 children! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (A. Leanny's intermediate call sign.) Our group, Development/About! , in its pre-election programme, it has been said that the division of Latvian society should be terminated. We can get and solve this issue. We can put an end to the inherited status of these USSR citizens and to the inheritance status of their children (Dep. Mr Riekstins: “We can’t!” ) if their parents choose it. Do we really need to continue creating new non-citizens of the Republic of Latvia? ( Milestones.) We provide an opportunity to create non-citizens of the Republic of Latvia. What I want to stress today... We could think that with 30 children we will have solved the issue. But no! We believe that there is a need to go further. We will encourage discussion. Not today, not today... Let us ask the committee responsible to think and discuss, and to weigh whether, however, the abolition of citizenship should be extended to a wider range of children. What do you think are the number of children under the age of 15 who are not yet able to make a decision on this? How much is it? According to the database on Citizenship and Migration Administration, it is 2933. Could these children, if they were to become citizens of the Republic of Latvia under the age of 15 and could not be non-citizens anymore... Would this change anything in the Republic of Latvia's sovereignty and statehood? I think absolutely nothing. Just in the right direction... Only to improve the prospects for a more cohesive society, to eliminate the historical situation in which people have become hostages to historical circumstances and domestic obstacles. Almost all children have strong ties with Latvia. For almost all of them, Latvia is the only home now and hopefully also in the future. I call on us today to support the transfer of this draft law to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs as a responsible person and I very much hope that we will be able to discuss with you without worrying about Latvia's future, but raising expectations about it... that 2933 children of non-citizens could become citizens of the Republic of Latvia in the near future. That is our decision. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U9	“Pret” has applied to speak by Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U10	Dear President, Honourable Members! Here we have to say that the lawyers of the Presidential Chancellery are engaged in their mastery. Yesterday everyone saw the news that this issue has been resolved in all countries. And if we do not like the Institute of Non-citizens, it is clear that we need to introduce the so-called Institute of Residents. If a child is born to a non-citizen of Latvia, for example, in Switzerland, the child will be resident in Switzerland. He will be resident in Luxembourg, he will be resident even in Germany... In most European countries, birth does not give rise to the right to citizenship. Here is an extremely interesting precedent: the creation of an institution for the granting of collective citizenship. And it doesn't matter if they are two children or 20 children. What if 200 children? What are we doing? But if two thousand children... if there is such a precedent? What if 20,000 children? Where, then, is the limit to which you can do so and beyond? Collectively, Latvia cannot grant citizenship. It is established in the judgement of the Supreme Court in 2016, as well as in several other judgments. Why have the lawyers of the Presidential Chancellery decided to violate this principle and disrespect the decision of the previous Saeima? Hope... I will answer: in the hope that the new Members do not know the history of Latvia. And... I also understood from Mr. Pavlut, who said that so many years have passed... Why does the Institute of Non-Citizenship still exist in Latvia? I will count on a few points about which the President of Latvia and the President's Registry lawyers have not said... has not shown any interest. Restoring national independence did not solve the problems of national and demographic issues caused by the Soviet occupation. The Russian-speaking community is too big to contradict the experience of European countries... so that living in the same territory with a culturally and mentally different nation - the Latvian people - does not interfere with its development. In Belgium, Spain, Switzerland and elsewhere, different peoples live in their historical territories but are not confused in schools and other places. In the country, without any justification, it was allowed to remain for Soviet extortion, army and home affairs officers, propagandists and military specialists with families. Russification policy vis-à-vis children continued and continued in the media space and schools with Russian teaching language. Latvian public and cultural employees associated with the check not only have not freely admitted and regretted their sins, but continue to influence public opinion in order to distract attention from the tragic situation. It is also promoted by the list of KGB agents at slow... declassification delay. The Latvian Government has not concluded an agreement with Russia on the need for compensation and repatriation of former citizens who have not engaged in Latvian society in the hope of the restoration of the Russian Empire. The main task of the Latvian legislator and government remains to achieve improvement of the demographic situation of the Latvian people and complete elimination of the consequences of occupation. For no reason is it absolutely of interest to the lawyers of the Presidential Chancellery. And now for human rights. This draft law seriously ignores the rights of parents. Why are you, Mr Pavilut, and the Development/About Group? Do you think, for example, that these families, some may not expect to travel to the United States after two or three years, or to Germany, Israel or other countries? Why will we now put on their children with citizenship? Next. Why do we want to take away the advantages of business travel to Russia? We're creating problems for them because people... just as they will be Latvian citizens, they will need to have a visa. Maybe they've got birth there, maybe they're going to emigrate there in a few years, maybe they want to do... and want their children to take over the so-called business, property and communication of their parents. Many, maybe... and they have the right to celebrate the 9th of May... They hate to live in small countries where fate has brought them into a foreign geopolitical space, and they say to their children: “Let us endure, and the Russian Empire will be restored, and then you will be citizens of the large, indivisible empire.” We repeat the Turkmenbeshi experiment. Several years ago, a law was passed in Turkmenistan: within two days, all the citizens of the former USSR who lived there had to choose: either they accept Turkmenistan's citizenship or remain citizens of other countries, with the only possibility of leaving or in some way...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U11	Mr. Kirstein, the speaking time is over!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U12	Yeah. I'll finish it. The last sentence. The state of Latvia is not a totalitarian state with the right to children...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U13	Mr. Kirstein, the speaking time is over!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U14	... Unfortunately, the opportunities for raising children belong to our families. I call for this to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U15	Thank you. We have to vote. Mr. Judin, you're going to talk about... You will also have a proposal to hand over the draft law... Please turn on the microphone for Andrejs Judys!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U16	That's the microphone... My proposal is for a referral to the Commission. Please also define as co-responsible the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U17	Okay. ( Milestones.) Colleagues, after the procedure, we can at the same time vote in favour of passing the draft law on to both the responsible and co-responsible commission. Please call me! We will vote for handing over to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs of the draft law “On Disappointment of the status of a non-citizen to Children”, establishing that it is the commission responsible, as well as to the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Public Solidarity! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 61, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the Member Reizniece-Ozola, Čakša, Augula, Vacana, Krauzze and Valainis be referred to the Legal Commission by means of the draft law on the “Law on the Release of Natural Persons from Debt”, which states that it is the committee responsible. ‘ “A Member, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U18	Good morning, Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! This is the second time we ask the Saeima to work with a new prepared bill – “Law on the Release of Natural Persons from Debt”. What is insolvency of a natural person? It is by nature an opportunity, a means of getting out of the debt burden within a certain period, then continuing without debt, but the existing insolvency framework for natural persons requires that, in order for such a tool to be used, the debt must be at least EUR 5 000 and the cost of it must be EUR 1200. Colleagues, Latvia has about 35 thousand people, whose debt is between two and five thousand euros, not reaching the insolvency threshold of a natural person. For those of us who have a good salary, the amount may seem small and easy to give, but imagine what the family has to keep, and the income may be a minimum wage or a little above it. This is an impossible mission. I think this is also reflected in the fact that 39 percent of people, admitted in the PTAC survey on the purpose of quick credit, that they have taken the quick credit in order to be able to repay the previous credit obligation, i.e., that a person is in a whirlpool wheel that cannot leave. Another 27.5 percent of people say that they have taken fast loans to buy food and pay bills. These are expenses that do not generate any value for additional assets, which do not enable people to sit back and implement development-oriented measures; this money is simply consumed. In order to give such people the opportunity to return to the normal economy, to receive legal remuneration without fear that the bailiff will, as they say, be in the tail and take away the means necessary for survival, it is also our duty to give the opportunity to those who cannot repay their debts in a simplified procedure - not wanting to, but cannot repay their debts! - and of which the amount of debts is up to five thousand euro, out of them. And that is exactly what this draft law provides. Of course, we still have quite a lot to discuss whether there is a need for any further regulation, which is not currently provided for in this draft law, on increasing financial know-how, because it is extremely important. Lack of financial capacity - that is to a large extent why a large number of people have gone into debt. We have rather done in terms of limiting the interest on late credit or penalty interest and have placed greater responsibility on so-called 'quick credit providers', making them assess the person's ability to repay debts. But so far, you can see that it doesn't work. Too seductive are ads, where a person sees that for example, Mairis Briedis, a sniffly photographed, says: “Don’t look at me, look at me!” - another easy, quick credit. People themselves admit that up to now they have been motivated to take credit because no one is asking them where they are going to use it and that it is fast and convenient and easy to do it. Financial practice is low, and that is why it is our duty, as politicians, to increase it as well as to prevent the consequences of its disease, if it can be said, because quick credit is a disease, I would even say a disease. I ask you to support the transfer of this draft law to the Commission, to work with it, to improve it if necessary and to adopt it as soon as possible. If you do not, we will, of course, once and for once every week, submit it until the support, however, will be, or the government at least will come with its own proposal, or concrete solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U19	Ms Juta Strīķe, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U20	Undoubtedly, such a law is very, very necessary. This legislative package at the Ministry of Justice is already almost complete. It will be submitted as soon as possible. For the project proposed to us today. ( Insight: “Propose you! ”) ) So what can I say? Melo champions! Whoever's stealing, he's lying. Whoever lies, apparently, he is also stealing. Because this project has been taken from the Ministry of Justice at an undeveloped stage. It is very negative, not of quality, and, if it is adopted in this version at the moment, it will in no way work. And I'll explain why. Because it is most important to adopt, at the same time, amendments to the Civil Procedure Act, which are not currently being proposed at all in this opposition proposal. Because the rules of insolvency proceedings of a natural person are not applicable to such proceedings. And there must be both procedure and the role of the court. All this will come in a joint package with changes to Civil Procedure Law. I therefore call for this draft law not to be adopted in this version... Because it's... it will not be able to improve the situation. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “The Saeima must work!” ) It will be an empty sound as usual... how we are used to getting from the ZZS... And, of course, I also have a question for myself if you are going to vote in favour of this proposed version: have you coordinated it with Andris America? How does he like it? Thank you. ( Internoint.) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U21	Colleagues! We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission the draft law “Law on the Release of Natural Persons from Debt”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 33, against - 52, abstaining - not. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the Member Reizniece-Ozola, Čakša, Krauze, Vucana, Planta and Valaiņa's draft law "Amendments to the Law on Excise Tax" be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ “A Member, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U22	Good morning, colleagues! We have prepared the bill “Amendments to the Law on Excise Tax” (Dep. Mr Feldman: “Do you really?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. “) which provides for the abolition of excise duty exemptions on the liquids of tobacco products, cigarettes and electronic cigarettes for diplomatic missions. We believe that this is an out-of-date norm that runs counter to the global fight against smoking, including our fight against smoking in Latvia, and such a norm, of course, causes damage to the public budget. We also allow the employees of the Latvian embassies and other diplomatic missions not to purchase tobacco products at the expense of the embassies in the performance of their duties. Colleagues, until the end of 2016 diplomats and staff of international organisations could purchase tobacco products and alcoholic beverages in unlimited quantities. That year, we made amendments limiting both the quantity of alcoholic beverages that can be used by one worker to obtain a tax credit and tobacco products. These restrictions are still quite high. I do not know how to smoke to smoke 7200 cigarettes or to use 7200 grams of smoking or heating tobacco, 1800 cigars or cigarillos. We offer to abolish these benefits to diplomatic missions, and to do so from 1 July this year. This would also give us a positive fiscal effect. Our calculations show that this would be EUR 434 511. Sufficient substantial resources could still be allocated to either the remuneration of educators or the strengthening of the social sphere, or to other measures of public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U23	Mr. Artus Kaimiņš has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U24	Good morning, honourable colleagues! It's bad to pee. Drinking is bad. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. O. Plant: “Are you sure? You say that?Oh, no, no, no, no, ") And do this on the territory of Latvia at the tax-free zone percentage 24/7... because it really is that in Latvia any diplomat has the possibility of tax-free zone, if it simply speaks in words, to buy these products. But it is not really that, let's say, the French ambassador goes in, I don't know what supermarket and buy, I don't know, one piece of cigarette package A and they still pay off the relevant mark-ups, which is share tax. It's not! These are the purchases made by the respective ministries... procurement part of the embassy. In this way, they also buy, suppose, the same receptions that you all go to. — Dep. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “What are everyone in the pipe?” ), and pour you red wine, pour you white wine and so on, and it is a normal practice throughout Europe. Latvia will now close this proposal only because the previous Minister of Finance, in my opinion, has just a whole trailer with documents from the Ministry of Finance. In this case, this channel, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, will be cut off. You have simply brought documents out of the Ministry of Finance in a brutal way and now you are making them a proposal that starts from the Saeima... (Dep. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “We know what ideas we have led and they are easy to write!” ) Yes, if you knew... then you would not have at this sitting six different proposals, all of which relate to your work in the previous term. This is a populist proposal that cannot be fully supported. I ask the Saeima to reject it, because the next one will be to list the tears of babies, because they are very valuable, they must not even be seen in Latvia at all, and already Dana Reizniece-Ozola will be able to figure out where this tear is the most. Where? Thank you. Please reject this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U25	All right. One Member has spoken for, one against. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission to the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 32, against - 53, refraining from - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the Member Reizniece-Ozola, Čakša, Krauze, Vucana, Planta and Valaiņa's draft law "Amendments to the Law on Accounting" be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ “A Member, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U26	Colleagues! This draft law provides for the introduction of licensing or certification of accounting services providers, which would ensure appropriate qualifications for the provision of these services and also the obligation to comply with control tasks in relation to money laundering and terrorist financing. This is not a new issue; it is an initiative that has been discussed for several years now, because, of course, there is no one-size-fits-all approach for the industry. There is a part that wants to build quality bars, and there is a part that wants to make it easier to provide these services - less demands, less controls. But now that we are also in the Moneyval implementation process... Last October, the government envisaged that this would be an important and feasible measure. In this way, it would be envisaged that we would introduce one important recommendation that control should be provided not only in the financial field, which, of course, is now the focus of all the lighthouses and which is given full attention, but also in the non-financial area, in accounting, where, unfortunately, estimates show that there is still a rather large proportion of the shadow economy (around EUR 12 million in 2017). In this way, it would also be possible, at least in part, to legalise the services currently provided illegally. Thus, even the higher tax revenues that we could pass on to socially responsible matters, such as this year's fund for the support of non-governmental organisations, to support both regional and local NGOs, to the education of interests or to any other relevant measures, are expected. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Nemiņš: “ Children’s tears! The tears of the children are talking!” ) In addition, I think it will be very well suited to the financial and non-financial repairs announced by the new Prime Minister. I ask you to support this. At the beginning of the year there was also a wide-ranging discussion with industry and business organisations, and conceptually there was quite a broad consensus that such a procedure was necessary. A delegation must be established in the law so that the Government can determine the rules of the Cabinet of Ministers both the procedure and duties and the right to implement this process. of course, with one fundamental precondition that it cannot be too complex and too costly for accounting service providers in administrative terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U27	Mr. Artus Kaimiņš has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U28	Another paper from the trailer by which Dana Reizniece-Ozola has left the Ministry of Finance! This proposal is, in fact, a huge increase in the bureaucratic burden. In particular, any accounting officer who is required to be outsourced... i.e., outsourcing accounting - he doesn't work for your company... he has to get a special license... special license must be taken out, money must be paid, some more courses must go out... It's okay that he's an accountant... This simply puts this bureaucratic burden even further. I somehow forgot... I forgot, but now I remember once again how much, with foam on my lips, you, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, defended here the reform of the cash registers, which has gone completely nowhere... including - with the opinion of the State Audit Office that it was not beneficial for taxpayers. ( The box “No! ”) ) You should take responsibility for this... including, not talking about buying diplomatic cigarettes at the moment, or... in this case, that the accountants...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U29	On the subject! Mr. Neighbours, speak on the subject.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U30	... that accountants... I am referring to the subject.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U31	On the particular draft law!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U32	... that accountants would put even bigger ones in this case... with even more bureaucratic burdens than is currently the case. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Švecova: “You for the shadow economy?” ) So, please, from this trailer here that... comes all the time from Dana Reizniece-Ozola, who comes... please reject this too. Thank you. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U33	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission to the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Accounting”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the Member Reizniece-Ozola, Čakša, Krauze, Vucana, Planta and Valaiņa's draft law "Amendments to the Law on Excise Tax" be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ “A Member, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U34	Colleagues! These amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” have been prepared. The idea is, however, that a way should be found to reduce the administrative burden on economic operators on the one hand (Dep. A. Neighbours: “Even as soon as you wanted to increase!” On the other hand, to reduce tax fraud by showing a different nicotine content in the documents and thus also affecting the tax payable. Because currently the tax comes from two criteria: volume and nicotine share. And then, trying to point out that the nicotine share is lower, the tax burden is reduced in this way. I have analysed the experience of other countries, where one criterion is often used: the amount in tax calculations, and this is what we are offering from our own point of view. In this way, it would be easier to manage the tax and could achieve a positive fiscal effect. If this year... This rate would be introduced in half a year, and then at least EUR 150 000 this year's revenue could provide substantial funding for new measures. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstin’s intermediate call sign.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U35	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( The box “Yes! ”) “Of course!” ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission to the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 34, against - 53, refrains - not. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the Member Reizniece-Ozola, Čakša, Krauze, Vucana, Augulija and Valaiņa's draft law on Amendments to the Law on State Funded Pensions be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ “A Member, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U36	Colleagues! These amendments to the State Funded Pensions Act relate to our proposals regarding the draft Law on State Social Insurance included in the budget package. Gist of these amendments... which, unfortunately, are not currently supported by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, but I very much hope that there will be qualitative discussions at the Saeima sitting on this and Members will support the rule that pension, unemployment and sickness social contributions for young parents will be paid from both the childcare allowance and the total amount of parental benefit. This would ensure justice for the parent who spends his or her first years at home with the child and should not worry that he or she will therefore have a lower pension. This would be in line with the recommendations of the European Commission and international institutions on the sustainability of the pension system, as well as contribute to improving the demographic situation in Latvia, because we still have too few children - only 1.7 children per two parents. It is better than elsewhere in Europe, where the average is 1.6, but still, I think, we all understand that it is too little for a nation to be sustainable in the long term. The idea is that these contributions should be made from the national special budget. Such a step, if introduced this year from mid-year, would have a negative fiscal effect of about EUR 6.33 million. And therefore, we offer to amend the State Funded Pensions Law at the same time, providing that if contributions are made from the special budget to the provision of pension capital, these contributions are made only at the first level and not at the second level. Such a norm is already in essence in the State Funded Pensions Law from last year, and it provides that from 1 January 2020 there is a general principle – if contributions are made from the social budget or from any special budgets... state budgets, then they are not transferred to the 2nd level of pensions. Our offer is to make contributions to parental pension capital only at pension level 1 as of 1 July of this year. In this way, we are ensuring the implementation of fiscally neutral proposals in the medium term and we can already support young parents this year without waiting for next year. I understand that everything you want to leave for next year - your logic is there, because next year is the long year. But the long year only means one day longer than another. We can't get everything. So I'm calling for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U37	“Pret” has applied to speak to Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U38	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, I will tell you that: politics is a simple thing. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “No!” ) It is competition between ideas and personalities. And now we should talk about the ideas in the State Funded Pensions Act, about the amendments tabled by the Union of Greens/Farmers. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “Then we do it!” ) But, my fellow Members, I have to say that the biggest problem is that ( Dep. I. Zarins: “Are you afraid?” Amendments to the State Funded Pensions Law, Proposals in the State Budget Law, request about the wife of Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš, who is in the Commission of Requests... It is not already because our colleagues from the ZZS have such confidence. This is not because they have promised to their constituents. Even more - it's not because it's good for Latvia. But that is why. — Dep. A. Gobzem: “May you talk about the subject?” )... Yeah, okay. Now I will give you an example. I have this situation every time, once every two months. When I stop at the petrol station, I have to... A man is stunned and says: “Look, man, the pochas have ended. Allow me to stick together!’ We cannot support the amendments to the State Funded Pensions Act. We cannot support them, because they are just your pohas! ( The grass is laughter, it is free.) Because power has slipped out of hand. For power is no more for you! Colleagues, I would advise you to wait a little bit. Because you already know that in the government corridors these issues are already being dealt with and all "for" and all "for" that are related to this issue are being weighed on there. And, you know, I'll tell you honestly, drawing the Moon on the paper and standing on it, you can't say we've been on the Moon. No, no! It's more serious. It is much, much more serious to prepare for such a mission. Just like to amend the State Funded Pensions Act. There's a couple and there's a minus. Colleagues, my proposal to all of you - does not support it today. Because the government corridors are already working on this matter. And when all of this is prepared, discussed, debated, we will be able to accept it here. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U39	Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Funded Pensions” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 33, for - 46, for - 10. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the Member Reizniece-Ozola, Čakša, Krauze, Vucana, Augulija and Valaiņa’s draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ “A Member, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U40	Colleagues! Mr Bondara, the speeches are long, long, but the work is short. Right? We have prepared another draft law: amendments to the law “On Personal Income Tax”. And here are two blocks of substance. One is as follows. The objective is to reduce the personal income tax rate from 10 per cent to 5 per cent of the income from scrap sales. That's how... there is a plan that the defect could have an effect by reducing the tax. In fact, higher tax revenues could be achieved by reducing the shadow economy and increasing investment. The sector itself has drawn up a study involving Ernst & Young, which also shows in a rather detailed manner the basis on which such a measure may have an effect. And the other thing is to extend the basis for the exemption from personal income tax. Last year, in agreement with trade unions and employers, we introduced tax relief for catering services in companies with a collective agreement. The amount is limited - 480 euros per year or on average 40 euros per month, and according to statistics... It is known from the State Revenue Service that last year employers have used such an exemption for 13 326 employees. The Ministry of Finance planned a major fiscal effect - about EUR 3.9 million; in practice, we see that this is much less - EUR 0.8 million. We offer to make use of the benefits of transport without expanding the quantity. This is particularly important in regions, because not always where people live can provide jobs, while companies do not always have enough staff at present, especially in regions, and they would therefore be happy to organise transport services. It is not reasonable that people's income tax should also be paid for these services, as it makes services more expensive. We offer to expand this relief base. This would have no significant fiscal impact. Overall, from this draft law... it is planned that there would be even positive fiscal impact. If implemented this year, up to 450 thousand euros a year. So there are good things that we, Mr. Neighbours, would have done and continued to do anyway if we had worked in the government. These are our ideas, our and our partners' ideas, which are not in any wagon or luggage... or else you have to push... they must be easy to work and fully implemented. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U41	Mr. Artus Kaimiņš has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U42	So the day started with diplomatic cigarettes, so we went... We're getting to the colorful metals. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “Prepare just one bill!” ) We have reached the colorful metals! And here it is said that it has been done... advice, huh? What consultations (I am reading annotation) have been carried out in preparation of this draft law? Ernst & Young is not mentioned here. If you've had Ernst & Young... Who has paid Ernst & Young, huh? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “Industry!” ) The industry paid? Which one? That trade union, which only accounts for eight percent of all employees in the sector? They've paid? Really? Perhaps they are not even aware that they have paid Ernst & Young, which is, of course, one of the cheapest companies to rent for such research. They give their opinion here on scrap metal, how many million could you bring into the cash register, which is welcome... here is already the idea of the bill. Very well, about the bill. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “Six bill projects, Artus Nemiņi!” ) There are no longer any applications signed by five Members, but for... We have gone further, a bill. Good job! At last! But this comes again from the same trailer (interface.) , which you had before, and here you all the time grumble that you have no power. You have no power and no power! ( Interface: “You will not be! ” ) Please reject this. Thank you. ( Internoint.) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U43	Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Land Register Law” submitted by the Legal Commission be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ “A Member has applied to speak about” Juta Strīķe.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U44	This draft Law of the Legal Commission is very important, aimed at cutting red tape, cutting red tape and modernising the circulation of our documents. This will apply to a very large number of people and in many cases, because the draft law provides that a request for reinforcement can be submitted in the Land Register by means of an electronic signature if it has also been confirmed electronically by a notary. It will therefore facilitate the circulation of documents between private individuals and land registers when some property or other transaction will have to be strengthened. So the call to support this very important draft law for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U45	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Reports by the Bureau on the granting of leave. On 28 March this year, a Member of the European Parliament, Mr Kaspars-Girgen, shall be granted unpaid leave. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from a Member, Kaspars Gürgen, requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 28 March of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to Member Andris Skrides on 26 March this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Andra Skride requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 26 March this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For the unpaid leave granted to Ms Inese Voika, Member, on 25 and 26 March this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Inese Voika requesting her unpaid leave on 25 and 26 March of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. Dear colleagues, We have yet to decide on the amendments to the agenda. The Legal Commission asks to make changes to the agenda of the sitting and to consider draft law “Amendment to Land Registers Law” at first reading without re-examination by the responsible commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. On the agenda - examination of a request from Members. The request made by Members. The Bureau of the Saeima has received a request from Member Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Krišāns, Valeria Agešina, Jānis Adamsons, Jānis Tutina, Inga Goldbergas, Edgars Kucina, Vladimirs Nikonova, Boriss Cilevičs and Ivans Klementyev, Minister of Economics Ralfa Nemiro, “On avoidance of the Minister of Economics to provide information on the implementation of the Saeima’s decision of 10 January 2019 on the abolition of the mandatory procurement component”. The request is therefore open to all Members. The applicants have asked for a statement of reasons. Name on behalf of the applicant Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U46	Hello, colleagues! Good afternoon to all who still listen to this sitting! So what is the demand? As you remember, at the beginning of this year, the Saeima decided to abolish the compulsory procurement component by making it very clear in its decision what the objective is. The purpose of this Decision was to reduce the electricity burden for all Latvian consumers in a legal manner. That was one thing. The other thing. This process was to be supervised by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission of the Saeima. Colleagues! What date do we already have today? March 28th. So there's another 29, 30 March... and it's 31 March... In the middle... It's Saturday and Sunday... The essence of the matter is that the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission has still received nothing from the Ministry of Economics, nothing at all! Not the Ministry's own proposal, not the justification... the proposal, how all this will be implemented, not also the legendary independent legal opinion of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which should have been at its disposal from the beginning of March, but they are speaking out and not submitting it to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, because they say that there is something to be clarified. So we're asking... One of the issues in the request is to explain to which the Ministry of Economics does not agree in this independent legal opinion that it does not want to be presented to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. That's one thing. The other thing. We also want to understand how the Ministry of Economics offers to comply with this... implement this objective, to which the Saeima has called for it. Because what we have heard from public rhetoric - the Ministry of Economics has prepared - quite the contrary! - a grossly unlawful proposal that will result in a billion legal proceedings that have no basis at all... that there will be a simple disaster. In principle... Colleagues, I don't know how you... but, in my opinion, that was not what we decided on when we took this decision. And that raises reasonable questions: does the Ministry of Economics have problems with competence or with the political will to implement this decision? Yeah, what else is amusing? A few days ago there was a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers in which this proposal of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which we have not seen here in the Saeima, was discussed. And the Cabinet did not support this proposal, pointing out that, in principle, it should be redrafted, that it should be looked at quite differently. Then the question is: did the Ministry of Economics not have enough brain itself or had no political will to come up with such a solution? They needed a government, a government! - make them process it and do it differently! Then there is a valid question: what has the Ministry of Economics actually done all this time? And all this rhetoric that now sounds... Well, colleagues, just to put it mildly, there's almost no argument... from the series “one aunt said”... or separate oncules. Even seeing... The solution prepared by the Ministry of Economics is absurd, not only from the point of view of its nature, but also from the point of view of its legal technique. So there is this request, to which we hope, and with answers (Interface: “Time!” ), we will have clarity on what to do.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U47	The speaking time is over. Thank you. Consequently, we shall refer the request to the Requesting Commission. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Review of the Law “Amendment to Labour Law”. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Andris Skride.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U48	Good morning, colleagues! So we work with the Act Amending the Labour Law, we reread it. The nature of the amendment to the law, I recall, is that if the sector has a general agreement which provides for an increase of at least 50 per cent above the national minimum wage, the overtime premium may be less than 100 per cent but not less than 50 per cent of the staff rate. And if, as the national minimum wage changes within the existing framework of a framework agreement, the fixed minimum wage in the sector becomes less than 50 per cent, then the framework agreement should be amended. Five proposals were received by the Commission. Now on the proposals. 1. - the proposal of Ombudsman Jur Janson. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U49	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Clementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U50	Good morning, honourable Members! Yes, an interesting project, very complex, and the situation unique. In the previous Saeima, only SASKĀJA voted against... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “It’s not true, Andrej! I also voted against! ) Yes, Mr Kaimina did not support this project either. In reading, the President realized that there were risks of violation of the Satversme and sent us to a second-reading... Once more to correct it. Following the work of the Commission on this project, I say so, the draft law remained even worse, so I ask you to support the Ombudsman's proposal... or do not fully support the draft law and refer it to the Social and Labour Commission. And I'll explain why. I will not talk about the legal details, because it is a huge area of discussion. There were five committee meetings, which lasted two hours, and very many experts were invited. I want to warn you about the main thing. The three largest legal offices of the State - the President's Legal Office, the Legal Office of the Saeima and the Ombudsman's Office - said that there was a high risk of violation of Articles 91 and 107 of the Satversme. If today we vote in favour of the committee's version, then we risk meeting in the Constitutional Court. The Ombudsman prepares the application to the Constitutional Court because he is convinced - the Constitution has been violated, and two... as far as I understand, the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, which did not support these proposals, will not assist the Saeima in the Constitutional Court - we will have to look... Well, those Members who have taken this decision in the majority will have to seek lawyers, pay them, pay to defend this, in my view, wrong position. While we examined this amendment to the law in commissions, there were two judgments of the Constitutional Court. One was about medical salaries, the other was about publishing salaries. And there were legal nuances everywhere that showed that if we accept the version proposed by the commission, then let us violate the Constitution. I would like to remind Members that, at the time when we started working, we had a solemn promise in which we promised not to violate the Constitution. If three legal offices, the wisest and best paid lawyers in Latvia, they say that we have risks... I suggest that either support the Ombudsman's proposal and remove the load... Either what we talked about as a violation of the Constitution, or reject the whole bill and return it to the commission. The Commission will, in the majority of its composition, perhaps by inviting other experts, produce such a version that there is no doubt that we are not breaking the Constitution. It will be more expensive if we go to the Constitutional Court. I know that the Ombudsman will present his application in an accurate and timely manner. And I know that if the Ombudsman goes to court, he has a very good and strong argument. There's another way. Members of the Saeima from INTERPRETATION will prepare a request not to declare this law. We already have 24 signatures. We were ready. If there are Members who understand the essence of the Satversme and have gone into this amendment to the law, then perhaps they could come to the political group and sign this application. If we collect 34 signatures, then stop that bill at all... the promulgation of the law. By this we will again avoid the Constitutional Court, and then 13. There will be no losses in the Constitutional Court. Another point is that we will make a balanced, legally correct law, and there will be no political taste. We guarantee this to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U51	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U52	As I have already said, sometimes the truth comes from this tribunal. In the KPV LV, there is a free vote on this issue. We also have different views. In this case, Mr. Klementyev did not really lie. Not a millimetre! Here, in the guest hall, in this sector, the President's Office is sitting... from the President's legal office, Jānis Pleps (and I also had a conversation with him), who pointed out that the problems in this amendment were already at the very root of the law. That is, what Mr. Klementyev mentioned about the cases already lost in the Constitutional Court... This is not because the idea is not good, but because this bill or law procedure... as it has been designed, it is wrong in its very origin, it is not acceptable, and it will simply be a reason for the Constitutional Court to win again on this issue. What I've heard... that this will be a precedent - and a positive precedent! - other industries, such as... Let's say they'll be guards or maybe restaurant employees... Yes, of course, it works well. But on the other hand, I have to say here again that... as Mr. Klementyev has already said, three main legal pillars, well, the pillars that we have here... Mr. Ombudsman also certainly looks at this discussion right now... Hello, Mr. Ombudsman! It's about it's not to be supported because we're going to get a abandoned law again... on the President's side, put it back. The problem is: if there is no payment for overtime, then the whole sector must be covered... For example, there are no such problems in the IT sector. In the IT sector, employees receive normal, above average, salary. Here, in the Chamber, existing Members receive... The problem is: if we support this draft law on Labour Law, but do not support the Ombudsman's proposal, then let us accept a form of enterprise such as a micro enterprise... micro-business tax... I mean... Well, this form is languishing, because it remains for the big three... five whales, which are the big builders in the country... they're left with this... the way in which they will promote their orders, but the micro-enterprises as such - this in this case disappears. If you're talking about Perry, yes, Perry is all right, there it will work. But Latvia is outside the Pierīga, and it will not work there. Mr Asheraden, it has come from your ministerial time. It has been on the agenda for more than a thousand days... If this is not adopted, then perhaps we will have penalties from the European Union. Maybe! I said, 'perhaps', because there are in fact at least five such general agreements that should be concluded. On the other hand, in order to convince Members here to press the button "for" or "no", the parliamentary roll of order now proposes that you should be able to speak on such matters, let us say, the Ombudsman - the same main Ombudsman, whom you all praised so much when he presented his report. The same Ombudsman would come here and climb up with his arguments, which are mostly 'no', and I am sure here, from this tribunal, he would convince you. There is no possibility here, for example, for Dina Meistere, the head of the Saeima's Legal Bureau, to stand up and tell her why it is not to be supported again, because she is simply prevented from doing so by the Saeima's roll of order. In this case, I speak with both the vote of the President's Legal Bureau and the vote of the Saeima's Legal Bureau and the voice of the Latvian Ombudsman. I ask either to support this Ombudsman's proposal or, if this is not the case, this law... the project is rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U53	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U54	No, we can vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U55	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the Ombudsman's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 38, against - 48, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U56	2. - The proposal from the Member Krauze. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U57	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. ( Interface: “Why not Krauzem? ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U58	Good morning, colleagues, Speaker of the Saeima! This proposal. I join the previous speaker on the Ombudsman's proposal. In this case, I would like to emphasise two things: the uncompromising rule of law and the development of national competitiveness. In my opinion, this proposal reflects both. If we look at the risks of constitutionality... at least from the documents that I had the opportunity to meet... and, after meeting with the various NGOs, I would say that this proposal is the least at risk. And if the President has passed the law on re-reading, then we should look at these risks in particular. I call for support, because this really solves many issues, opens up a much broader possibility of extending the scope to all sectors, not just to large builders... Doesn't matter how it looks... This proposal is also supported by economic operators. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: ‘What?’ ) It could not be said that all Latvian entrepreneurs. I agree that the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry is Latvia's largest business organisation, but it has expressed its support for this proposal in its letter. I also call on you, my fellow Members, to support this motion by this Member, Krauze, and to act responsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U59	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U60	If before... if it happens, when we look at it globally, to talk about such a narrow niche - construction, then this proposal is very, very broad, but we are talking here about the very framework of the law. And in this case the Constitutional Court will win precisely because this framework is in itself a crople, incorrect. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “But it’s the best of all!” ) Thus, whatever the terms of the Krauzze proposal may be, it is not at all relevant in this draft law. If this is the best of all, he must come here and talk instead of send Valainis. Please reject this. Because if you think we're talking specifically about the construction sector... There is absolutely all the spectrum here, but the bill is about general agreement as such, and therefore about construction. Reject this, or come, Mr Krauze, and make sure that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U61	I closed the debate. Do you want to explain or add something on behalf of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U62	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U63	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Krauze's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U64	3. - Proposal by Members Aseraden, Latkovska, Adamovich, Reira, Reizniece-Ozola, Staķis, Pouces, Krauzes, Dzintara, Jansons, Strike, Gunna and Znotiņš. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U65	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Clementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U66	I'm going to be very clear about what this is about. Perhaps not all Members have read the annotation. We are talking about the fact that the construction sector will raise the minimum wage, but pay 50 per cent for overtime. At present, the Labour Act guarantees that everyone pays one hundred percent for overtime. This means that the same construction site will meet... there will be people who are employed in the construction business, who receive 50 per cent of the extra hours, but there will be other specialists, let's say, drivers, settlers and everyone else who will receive 100 per cent of the extra hours. It violates Article 91 of the Satversme, the principle of equality. As Members, we do not have the right to violate this principle today, so that people from different sectors working on the same construction site get an extra hour of pay. Because the social guarantee... Second. Okay. The construction sector tells us: "We increased the minimum wage, will be much more than a country... But for this we want a step from you, and 50 per cent for overtime.” We're saying okay! Those people who receive less than the fixed amount today may benefit from it. But what about those professionals who already receive €1000-1500 for work on the construction site? This means that they have nothing better, because they already get more than the average wage set for construction today, but they will pay only 50 percent for overtime instead of 100 percent. That makes the situation worse. This means that today, with these amendments to the Labour Act, we are fundamentally undermining social guarantees on the construction site. One point we are aggravating the situation... We have different... construction specialists and other specialists working on the site receive less than overtime. And worse even for those specialists who receive more than a thousand. In this context, I ask for this proposal to be rejected and for the whole draft law to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U67	I closed the debate. Is there any explanation in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U68	The proposal has been supported by the Commission and I ask Members to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U69	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the proposal submitted by Members Aseraden, Latkovska, Adamovich, Reira, Reizniece-Ozola, Staķis, Pouces, Krauzes, Dzintara, Jansons, Strike, Gunna and Znotiņa! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U70	4. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission. Please support!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U71	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U72	5. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission. Please support!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U73	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U74	Please support the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U75	Please call me! We will vote for the adoption of the law “Amendment to Labour Law” after re-reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's why the law was passed. Thank you. On the agenda - Draft Law on Competition, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U76	Hello! So let's get to work. Today on the agenda the draft law "Amendments to the Competition Law". ( Internouncing call.) It was just that we had to look at what someone had taken from the previous job. The draft law in question provides for the obligation on public persons and their capital companies to ensure free and fair competition in their activities, including by providing instruments to the Competition Council to monitor compliance with this obligation. The third reading of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission received 16 proposals. 1. - Member Plant's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U77	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U78	2. - Mrs Goldberg's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U79	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U80	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. High honourable Members! I would like to start by knowing very well the Chairman of the Competition Council clearly Abraham, and I have always appreciated her constructive approach and professionalism very much. That is why I believe that Mrs Abraham needs to know: in recent years I have been very critical of the work and the results of the Competition Council. I believe that the Competition Council is not satisfactorily dealing with its fundamental obligations. I also believe that the councils... Let's call it expansion... the supervision of public limited liability companies and municipal enterprises will certainly have a negative impact on the performance of the basic obligations. Otherwise, this cannot be the case because, if there is a fixed budget for the institution, the new obligations can only be fulfilled at the expense of the old one, at the expense of the basic duty. These are rather serious criticisms that require clarification. How to assess the functioning of the Competition Council According to the number of violations found in the Competition Law: last year the Competition Council discovered four violations, 2017. - four, in 2016 five infringements. According to funds from the state budget, the number of offenders was 445 thousand euros last year, in 2016 - almost five million euros, in 2017 - almost four million euros. Perhaps we should compare these indicators with one of the competition authorities of other countries. Let's take Lithuania. The Lithuanian Competition Council has discovered a slightly higher number of infringements: in 2017 there were five violations, in 2016 there were 10 violations. Competition law offenders in Lithuania have paid significantly higher amounts - almost EUR 8 million in 2017 and almost EUR 19 million in 2016. However, I believe that such comparisons may not be entirely correct and the results of the Competition Council should be assessed more broadly and in substance. Can we say, for example, that the competition monitor has worked seriously and well in areas where there are serious doubts about fair competition and the existence of adequate prices... and in those areas where the Competition Council has worked seriously? Can we say that we have noticed concrete, good and tangible results, such as prices that have fallen? Unfortunately, the answer to both questions is - no. Let us look at one area that was talked about very much during the pre-election period - the prices of medicines! Are the prices of medicines adequate? I think the answer is probably no. Social networking enthusiasts have discovered a number of inconsistencies, irregularities, asked a number of questions, but where has the Competition Council been all this time? Where? What have we heard? Did it reveal any violations of the law? No, no. Is penalties imposed on the guilty persons of undertakings? No, no. The most interesting thing is that in 2018, the Council concluded the monitoring of the market for the distribution of countervailable medicinal products and found that there was already very obvious evidence that the market had systemic problems and that there was a high concentration of the market. And what's next? The Competition Council initiated a meeting with industry staff to discuss the conclusions. That was all. Another example: Fees applied by banks for the management of pension level 2 funds. This is about almost EUR 4 billion of our money. More recently, OECD experts found with great surprise that the fees applied to Latvian citizens are one of the highest in the world. They found that, compared to Sweden, the fees applied to Latvian citizens are more than 10 times higher than those applied in Sweden. What about the Competition Council? Where has it been all this time? But... could I connect the times of the debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U81	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? ( Interface: “No, no! ”) ) No objection? Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? And the objections. ( Interface: “No, no, no! ”) ) If there are objections, we must vote. ( Interface: “No! ”) ) Consequently, objections are withdrawn and there is no objection to merging the two times of the debate. Please continue!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U82	Thank you, colleagues. But the real success of the Competition Council is, of course, related to the airport's taxi story. There was a system in Riga Airport, which in quite an interesting order both restricted competition and ensured... the system that worked. It worked in such a way that prices were adequate, cars - modern, clean, tidy, taxi drivers did not cheat our foreign guests. Now and then, the Competition Council has taken action to address this problem. I now quote to you the heading of September 2017: ‘After nine years, the Competition Council has finally resolved the ‘tax wars’ at the airport’. Yes, two years ago, the Competition Council did indeed also report on its great success that the problem had finally been resolved. Now we all know what is happening at Riga Airport. We all know what its new prices are. We all know the first impression our foreign guests get on our country. Well, with one word, colleagues, that's shame! Therefore, my fellow Members, I have a deep conviction that before deciding whether or not to extend the mandate and to extend the scope to other more complex areas, there should be serious, good work to fulfil the basic obligations. Unfortunately, that is not the case. I would very much like to believe that the real aim of these amendments is not to involve the Competition Council in any political struggle against the wrong municipalities. But, of course, only time will show whether this is the case. Thank you for your attention, colleagues. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U83	I closed the debate. Would the rapporteur have something to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U84	On behalf of the Commission, I can only say once again that... The proposal 2? Are we looking at proposal 2?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U85	Proposal No 2, yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U86	... That, therefore, the proposal of Member Goldberg in the Commission has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U87	We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Mrs Goldberg's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U88	3. - Member Plant's proposal. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U89	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U90	4. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Nemir. Partly supported, included in proposal 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U91	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U92	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U93	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U94	6. - The Member's Ulda Plantis's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U95	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U96	7. - Mrs Goldberg's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U97	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U98	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Nemir. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U99	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U100	9. - Mrs Goldberg's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U101	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U102	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member's proposal. Partly supported by the Commission, included in proposal 12.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U103	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U104	11. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Nemir. Partly supported, included in proposal 12.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U105	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U106	12. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U107	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U108	13. - Member Plant's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U109	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U110	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Plant's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U111	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U112	And 15. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Nemir. Partly supported by the Commission, included in proposal 16.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U113	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U114	16. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U115	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U116	We have therefore examined this draft law, all the proposals. Please support this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U117	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Competition". Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 76, not by - 5, refrains - not by -. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, Members Asheraden, Adamovich, Valainis, Ikstena and Dolgopolovs are asking for an amendment to the agenda and for consideration of the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Welfare Organisations” (No. 198/Lp13) for the second reading until 11 April 2019.’ Do Members have objections? There is no objection. On the agenda - draft decision “On extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the Law “Amendments to the Law on Public Welfare Organisations” (No. 198/Lp13) for the second reading until 11 April 2019.’ Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the Law “Amendments to the Law on Public Goods Organisations” (No. 198/Lp13) for the second reading until 11 April 2019.’ Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, Members Adamovičs, Augulis, Ples, Zakaistovs and Strīķe ask for a break after the relevant item on the agenda until the next parliamentary meeting, so by 9 a.m. 4 April this year. ( Interface: “What is that point? ” ) Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “I am!” ) Members have reservations? Do Members have objections? Who has reservations? Please raise your hands, Members, so that we can understand if anyone has reservations. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Man!” ) Member Gobzem has reservations. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “To him who doesn’t do anything!” ) So we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the adjournment by 9 a.m. on April 4, 2019. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, 3, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the decision has been made. Dear colleagues, Please call me! Please register the Members! Time for notification. Dear colleagues, These days are 15 years old, since Latvia is a member of NATO. A photo show has been created in honour of this event, and at 10.35, I invite Members in the Grand lobby to the opening of the exhibition. Name for Maria Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, to report on the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U118	Not registered: Jānis Dūklavs, Kaspars Ģirgens, Ieva Krapāne, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Arturs Rubiks, Jānis Urbanovičs, Inese Voika and Jānis Vucans.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-28-PT13-528-U119	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting. Interruption until 4 April - until 9 a.m. on 4 April 2019.
