ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. Let's start the sitting of the Saeima on 14 February 2019. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda the draft decision on the change of the responsible commission to the draft law on Amendments to the Ģerbonis Law. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “Amending the draft law of Vidzeme, Latgale, Kurzeme and Zemgale”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Prime Minister asks that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Legalisation of Documents” be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Prime Minister asks that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Movement of Goods of Strategic Importance” be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Prime Minister asks that the draft law “Amendments to the Corporate Income Tax Law” be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Feldman, Budrikis, Znotiņš, Riekstins, Cielēns and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Juris Rancāns from the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Feldman, Rancāns, Budriķis, Znotiņš, Riekstins and others are asking for a draft decision to be included on the agenda of the sitting “On the withdrawal of Juris Jušas, a Member of the Saeima from the National Security Commission”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Feldman, Budrikis, Znotiņš, Riekstins, Cielen and others are asking for the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Juris Rancāns to the National Security Commission to be on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” (No. 238/Lp13). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Prime Minister asks that the draft law on the application of the legislation following the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union be included on the agenda for the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. Reports by the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the Member Orlova, Zarina, Ribakava, Rubika and Kabanova's draft law on amendments to the Health Care Financing Act be referred to the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Vitaly Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U2	Thank you for the Bureau. Honourable Members! Health is the primary issue that will never lose its relevance to anyone. We are therefore looking today at the proposal to amend the Health Finance Act. 12. The Health Care Financing Act adopted by the Saeima has led to a sharp discussion in society and justified criticism from family doctors who do not want to perform the function of tax inspector. Recent events in the field of healthcare create a feeling of anxiety throughout Latvian society. As is well known, the recently adopted amendments to that law, which provide for the division of health services into two amendments, were made before 1 July this year. Colleagues, we cannot and must not allow people to be sorted and discriminated against after tax status. Issues with self-employed persons, with micro-enterprises employees have not been resolved. Our country's basic law incorporates the principle of equality and the principle of non-discrimination. This law of the two baskets adopted in 2017 significantly declares a quote from George Orwell’s novel Animal Farm: “All animals are equal, but some animals are more equal than others.” And now it's really... It doesn't seem so ironic at all. People want a normal life in our country. And any normal life is based on health... and stability in healthcare. Every person in Latvia feels intuitively the following injustice - the allocation into categories. WELCOMES the voters themselves, we have always stood up for a healthcare system that is accessible and understandable to the public. Today, the first step is being taken to move and develop the debate on health care. Recently the promise of Health Minister Ilze Viņķele in a couple of months... consider the new offer to provide health services to citizens, so that improvements to the law can be brought closer to fair healthcare. We're just about that. What do we offer now? My proposal and that of other Members is to eliminate the system of two baskets and make healthcare available to everyone in Latvia, as well as to maintain the norm, which provides for one percent of the social budget to be allocated to healthcare funding. Today, colleagues, we have two options: either to finally start developing and improving the healthcare system and make appropriate legislative changes, or to leave everything old and wait until 1 July 2019, without changing anything. We all know that the whole area of healthcare is not right at the moment, and I therefore call for our proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U3	Mr. Pat has applied to speak to Mr. Kaspars Ģirgens.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U4	Dear Members of the Committee. I would like to inform you that in March, the Public Expenditure and Audit Commission will address this issue of health care. But I want to pay very much attention... And at this point, I would like to say about the FAO: thanks to you, now there are members of the board at Jēkabpils Regional Hospital and every day there are losses (from the Group: “On the bill!” ) - healthy two thousand a day. So I'll say this: start with yourself first! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U5	So one Member has spoken 'for', one for 'no'. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Health Care” to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes to refer the Member Dombrovskis, Agešina, Orlova, Klementyeva and Zarina's draft law "Amendment to the Law on Roads" to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, which states that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U6	Highly honored Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Mr. Yusch... Mr. Jušas, cardboard! You're not going to believe me, colleagues. ( The utterances: “Suspiciously! ”) Thank you very much. (Laughter) Thank you. You will not believe me, colleagues, but we have very serious problems with our roads. ( The Room Noise. Interfaces: “Riga!” ) in Riga! And not only in Riga. ( Subtotal: “In Riga only! ”) ) I know that many of you will find it hard to believe this (Interior: “Rēzekne too!” ), since you've moved to Riga, and I'm so aware that compensation... Don't take it off so... It's... But there are some facts, colleagues. State of the national roads - more than 40 percent are in poor or very poor condition. ( Internouncing call.) State of the national regional roads - more than 40 percent are in a bad or very bad condition. ( Interface: ‘ Statistics! ’) ) Well, statistics don't lie! It is true that over the last four years, the share of national major roads that are in a poor or very poor condition has decreased significantly - from around 50 percent to around 25 percent today. But! If we are honest with ourselves, then it is not our merit. Let us thank the European Union as well as Britain for the money that we are going on. But in this programming period, the European Union's road money is actually ending this year. Dear colleagues, The accumulated road missing jobs since 1991 have been close to €10 billion. Ten billion euros! This year only EUR 159 million is planned for roads of state and municipality. You understand the difference between these figures - EUR 10 billion and EUR 159 million? At the same time, the Minister for Roads openly says that neither this year nor next year there will be any extra money for roads. And that's where he blames Kučinsky's government. This point is very special, colleagues! The coalition politicians finally explain to us what is responsible for the fact that they are unable to deliver on their pre-election promises. If Kučinski's government has not left them any money for it, then this must be the case for dialogue between coalition politicians and their voters: "Why are you not fulfilling your pre-election promises?" - "Well because the ZZS didn't leave us the money." Dear colleagues! It turns out that during the pre-election period when Latvia was full of good works for champion slogans and posters... Now you remember that much of the public was caught, of course, with more smile... It turns out that there were people who took it completely seriously, and these people are now sitting in this Chamber. So while we smiled, they thought, ‘ Well, the Union of Greens and Farmers - they're the champions of good works, the farmers, they're holding something all the time... all they accumulate, they have such a pitch that they can raise the minimum pension, both 3 x 500 and 10 x 1000... and so on.’ We just need to promise, take over, and the rest is history, as we know. Mr Kučinski, why could you not leave these people at least a few hundred million so that they could fulfil their promises? You can imagine how they now (Interior call.) Despite the Kremlin, we must fight for this "uncompromising rule of law" in order to distract attention from our promises. ( From the NA fraction: “What are you looking at?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “; dep. A. Neighbours: “They are there!” ) But, colleagues, it is not yet too late to start working! There's a way to do this. Road users will pay around EUR 585 million in taxes this year. As I said, state and municipal roads are to be diverted from this money to only EUR 159 million. This is less than a third of what the previous Saeima decided to approve in the National Development Plan in order to achieve road-related objectives. Our proposal is to shift 80 per cent of the revenue from the excise duty on fuel away from roads, thereby ensuring stable and adequate road financing.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U7	Mr Dombrovskis, the speaking time is over. It shall not be extended in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. ‘ Against’ applied to speak Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U8	Good morning, dear colleagues! We have already started this sitting, as we say, with quite a sharp debate. And I'll tell you one thing. Let me draw attention to the fact that nothing new has already happened here. It was a traditional pattern of hypocrisy from hypocrites, so there is no surprise. Why? If someone does not get acquainted with this issue and does not know the situation, I can explain that the biggest problems with road cover are not roads in the country, but streets of Riga. These are streets, not roads. The streets are the responsibility of the municipality. And I'll tell you something better: it's already known publicly that the money is, but it's not being spent. ( Interface: ‘ That’s it! ’) ) Nineteen million euros The Mayor of Riga has not been able to spend. The country has given them a targeted grant, but they have not been able to spend. Instead, they're... They have not spent EUR 19 million on repairing the streets in catastrophic condition, where the cars stand in stripes with crowded wheels and tyres and broken suspension mechanisms, but EUR 400 000 on pits. It's completely pointless! Others assume that just 400 thousand have been stolen. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “Debate the bill! This is not Riga City Council!” ) So the money is. This proposal is completely pointless. We know what this is about. Money is! People can't spend the money they already have. Let the hypocrites finally turn to work and repair the streets of Riga! Thank you. ( Internoint.) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U9	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Roads” to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the Member Dombrovskis, Agešina, Ribakova, Cileviča and Klementyeva refer the draft law "Amendment to the Labour Law" to the Commission for Social and Labour, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Andrejs Klementjevs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U10	Good morning, honourable Members! Today SASKY offers to hand over to the Social and Labour Commission a draft law in which we talk about minimum wages. I believe that today we can start discussions with the committees by attracting public organisations, accept the Employers' Confederation of Latvia or trade unions, and we can start talking about how we see 2021, with which minimum wages we will start this year. I believe that it is wrong for the Cabinet to decide what the minimum wage is. It was a long time ago that the debate should have been extended to attract not only Members - in the Commission profile - but also public partners. We are talking a lot about the fact that public organisations play a very important role in our communication... and that it will improve our image in Parliament and maybe raise ratings, confidence in Parliament... And so if we can, and we can! - to collect information in the course of the current year... and also from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Welfare, then we will know... On the basis of realistic economic indicators, we will know what we can afford. We are not talking today about populism, we are not talking about hypocrisy. We are talking about real work. If we hand over this bill to the commission today, we as members of the commission will be able to put the current issues together in the requests or questions of the commission, to put all the data together in the tables, and then we will see what we can afford. It is clear that raising minimum wages will contribute to the fight against the shadow economy. This is a very important point, which is also topical. By 2021, we want to reduce the shadow economy to 10 percent, and by attracting Members, professionals, we will be able to achieve this. You already know that raising the minimum wage all the time was a political process - ministers met together and mathematically... Which number is closer to who... decide on the number to be set as the minimum wage. I propose a completely different option - involving the social partners, involving specialists, setting out this number analytically and introducing it from 1 January 2021. 500 euros? Very good. There's 490? Better still. Once again... But let that number be justified. WELCOMES to hand over this draft law to work and start working because, for 2021, if we are really planning, we need to start work right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U11	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Members have reservations. ( FROM a fraction DECLARES: “3 x 500?” ) Please call us! ( Interface: How much is it?) ) Votes (from the Group: “Read!” ) on the referral of the draft law on labour law to the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour (from the NA Group: "It has to be multiplied, not counted!" ) establishing that it is the commission responsible. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the Member Dombrovskis, Agešina, Ribakova, Cilevičs and Klementyeva refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ “Lubova Švecova, a Member, has applied to speak about”.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U12	Hello! Is the amount of minimum wage not subject to personal income tax to be 500 euros per month a realistic result or an illusion? Look at that. In Estonia, it has been a reality since the beginning of last year. Is the declaration by the new government that it is true or misleading about the substance of the proposals made by opposition parties? Do you, citizens, actually get and feel in your wallets the loud statements of ministers and officials about increasing the wealth of the population? Does the timetables drawn up by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economics for the rapid growth of gross domestic product show an objective increase in the level of public welfare? Yes, the income of the rich layers has increased thanks to the reduced rate supported last December. Gross domestic product in Germany, on the basis of purchasing power parity and a coefficient which leads to an increase in the average income per capita. Latvia, according to statistics, is at the front of the bottom, not from the top, as the ministers tell us. I have a question: why do you not love your people so much? Why? Thank you. Vote!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U13	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the member Dombrovskis, Agešina, Ribakova, Cilevičs and Rubika refer the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Social Benefits” to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ On” applied to speak Member Jānis Krišāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U14	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! Latvia is currently one of the 10 countries in the world, where the fastest population decline is observed. I think it is an absolute disaster for as small a country as for us. We have a good government declaration, which also says about the nation's generation. I think this is one of the main issues at the moment. All the parties that are here today have promised benefits: for the first child - 50, for the second child - 100, for the third child - 150 euros, for each subsequent child. If the country does not send a signal that we are thinking about families and children, then in 20 years' time, believe me, we will no longer need schools, we will not have armies, nor will there be any money... There will be no pension for us. Also, many of us here in the hall, those who sit there will not be at their pensions. This low birth rate has never been. We have seen that in recent months, only just over two thousand children have been born. And I have this bitterness in my heart today to ask whether this Saeima and this government really are the ones, and we want to go into history after the centenary of our state, with the fact that we will not do anything... Let us do our utmost to destroy our country? Today we are concerned about a lot of things: we are concerned about various external dangers, about our great neighbours... from all sides... But I think that, at the moment, the biggest danger to the existence of our country is that we are ourselves. Therefore, honourable colleagues, let us be honest before our constituents. I think this is one of the main, priority issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U15	Ms. Linda Ozola, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U16	Good morning, colleagues! This week, by the way, started right on the note of demographics - a large and significant conference was held, where scientists were invited to meet with the parliamentarians. Every one of you... You have received a call. Mr. Krishan, I was at that conference. I didn't see you. But, right, your colleagues were there. I hope they also told you what they were talking about. And, obviously, the main conclusions were: of course, benefits are important, money support for families is important. However, it is not the only stimulant if it can say what would make society and families, especially large families, feel appreciated by the state. A strong emphasis was also placed on housing, access to kindergartens. And, my fellow Members, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this draft law has been tabled by Members of the Group... WHY now rules, as we all know very well, in the Riga City Council. Mr. Krishan, I hope you have also discussed this with your colleagues in the Riga Council, you have called on them to resolve urgently the issues of access to kindergartens and to do so on an equal basis, without distinguishing families by ethnic origin and the language in which they speak, and the kindergartens where they want to send their children. ( FROM a fraction DECLARES: “Provide! ” ) Your group is the one who places a great emphasis on this issue. Then really set an example, please and start with Riga! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U17	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Social Benefits” to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 32, for - 49, for - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the member Dombrovskis, Goldbergas, Dolgopolova, Klementyeva and Krišāns submit the draft law “Amendment to the Cabinet of Ministers’ Equipment Law” to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U18	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear colleagues, Our conversation on the promises has not yet been completed. Do you really think that with your “How can you not be sold?” mentality, with all your violated promises, promotes the trust of the Latvian people in the state of Latvia? Some of you say: "We cannot support proposals with budgetary implications." Others say: "As long as there is no discussion about this year's budget, we cannot look at or support such proposals." Now, some amazing duality! Only a month and a half ago, these same people were driving... and voted in favour of the proposal of the Social and Labour Commission to significantly increase the remuneration of medical practitioners, despite the fact that it was linked to the budget and to the fiscal impact, despite the fact that it was outside the time of budget adoption, despite the negative fiscal space. Lies and doubles! These same people have probably forgotten that, at the end of last year, they tried to abolish the so-called solidarity tax, which would require at least EUR 40 million from the budget. Despite the negative fiscal space! It was thanks only to the SAMANY and the Union of Greens/Farmers that they failed to achieve this. Only thanks to the FAILURE and the Union of Greens/Farmers, the government of Karina now does not have to deal with negative fiscal space problems at the expense of the social budget, as yet... for another EUR 40 million. Highly honoured colleagues and members of the ruling coalition! Help me, please, once again demonstrate the duality of the ruling coalition! This proposal, which we are now talking about, is not budgetary; it has no fiscal impact, but it has to do with a single party's promise. Before the elections, the Party’s New Unity promised its constituents to cut red tape... zero bureaucracy. A concrete promise: “By adopting any new regulation in the country, cancel two existing rules, instructions, etc..” I specifically quote to you the New Unity pre-election pledge. I must admit that it was not easy for us to prepare this bill, because there was no detailed programme for the New Unity. So it was not possible to find out exactly how the New Unity intended to do so. All that was available is the following: “By adopting any new regulation in the country, repeal the two existing regulations, instructions, etc.” All! Therefore, given that it is the representative of the New Unity that is the head of this government, we believe that it would only be logical to instruct Karina's government to live up to its promises with all of them "and so on". ( Internouncing call.) And more, colleagues! If we remember Mr. Karin... And also a promise... Some time ago, Mr Kariņš promised us right here that the opposition proposals would be examined in substance. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “That’s how it will be!” ) I remind you, colleagues, that today we are not voting for or adopting this draft law. We are talking about whether to pass it on to commissions and to examine the substance, even... not to appeal to the substance... the examination shall begin with whether the draft law has been referred to the Commission. That is why I have a great request to you, fellow Members: help us demonstrate that from this very platform, Mr. Kariņš has lied to all Members of the Saeima. I have no doubt that you will help us demonstrate all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U19	Ms Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U20	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Honor the shadows and its leaders! It has to be said that this is indeed a difficult task: to evaluate and improve the promises of the pre-elections of all parties. With all due respect, you have worked hard, but I did not see you in the campaign for the election of the New Unity. It is therefore also our duty to explain to you what it means to reduce the bureaucratic burden, what it means to reduce regulation, or to translate it directly from English, the principle of "one in, one out" or "one in, two out or even three out"... It operates in several countries, such as the UK, Canada, Germany, the Netherlands, and Finland has been experimenting with this principle since 2017 to improve public administration. This means not quantitative but qualitative... replacement of mechanisms, laws, instructions, regulations and others by a new... And its initiative does not just mean replacing one paper or reducing the amount of paper, but it means that, if, for example, the bureaucratic burden on business increases by one euro, then the regulation that has created the burden - one euro or two euro - must be eliminated, because the principle of "one in, two out". Consequently, your very laconic bill, as well as the next bill, which is essentially identical, only determines the quantitative saving of paper, which is also very careful regulation, but we want to do it in substance, in the sense that people feel not only that fewer laws, but also that there are really fewer expenditures. Your draft law does not have an annotation, so I am based on what Mr. Dombrovskis (Sitting Manager knocks down with a hammer.) Right here from the podium said. And... Yes, the government has already begun work and an initiative is under consideration that this "one-in-two-out" principle would be introduced in certain areas, starting with business regulation. This would mean not replacing one formal legislative act with another legislative act, as you have presented in your proposal, but assessing the real administrative burden of any new legislative act, while ensuring that any increase in administrative burden by one euro is compensated at least by a reduction of another administrative burden by one euro. For the sake of fairness, when you submit these draft laws, you do not reduce the amount of legislation, but increase it, because you have also put forward a proposal to amend the roll of order of the Saeima. The parliamentary roll of order, as we know, is now open for the submission of proposals by 4 March. Instead of presenting a draft law without clarifying the purpose of the draft law with an annotation, you could have tabled a proposal and this proposal would, of course, be examined. Dear colleagues, I call for this particular draft law to be rejected, as well as for the other one, the Amendment to the parliamentary roll of order, because they do not really help, even if they are well-targeted - they want to cut red tape - at this point in time. This would only improve the correction of quantitative but not qualitative indicators. However, I really call on all of us together to continue to reduce the bureaucratic burden. It is a joint legislative work between the coalition and the opposition. For all the new solutions and proposals, we will be happy, as always. And we call for it to be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U21	Thank you. So one Member has spoken 'for', one for 'no'. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Cabinet of Ministers’ Equipment Law” to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Member Dombrovskis, Goldberg, Dolgopolova, Krišana and Clementyeva refer the draft law ‘Amendment to the parliamentary order roll’ to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Inga Goldberga, a Member, has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U22	Hello, dear colleagues! And yet... According to the current information of portal Laws.lv on 30 January this year there are 7484 laws in Latvia. Of these, 5733 laws are in force, of which 4129 are amendments to the laws. Thus, the number of basic legal texts is well above one and a half thousand. Currently, 9945 regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers are in force, of which more than half are amendments, and 4165 regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers are in force. Now about three thousand more binding regulations in municipalities, countless instructions and guidelines. How can I focus on this whole document pack? Consider an example. You have decided to start your business and, logically, you open the relevant section of the Investment and Development Agency website. It contains text (please quote): “Business or commercial activity is regulated by various laws and regulations. Here are just a few of the most important," - close to 20 - "but to make sure you have taken into account all the legislative requirements regarding your chosen scope, please check http. www.likumi.lv’ And by opening laws.lv, all the figures that I mentioned before. Another very recent story of a young susceptible woman who decided to open a cafe. She concluded: “I am confused with the rule of law and all the requirements that she decided not to do anything. I concluded that it was impossible to understand everything, and so I am not sure that I would be wrong. And if I make a mistake, I will surely be punished.” It's honest. Who benefits from it? It must be to those who are punishing and those who want to take advantage of this situation. At the moment, without legal advice, it is not possible to understand what is permitted and what is not. This, of course, harms entrepreneurs, municipalities, causes confusion among citizens and disproportionately increases the costs of monitoring and control. I am convinced that the implementation of the principle of the rule of law without compromise is based on regularising, reducing, eliminating duplication and contradictions. I will not be wrong to say that all parties have promised it. For the sake of fairness it should be said that these issues are constantly being discussed for about 10 years, but there is one conclusion in all the reports: “efforts to prevent legal floods have not been the crown of success.” There's also a quote. Yesterday, the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government was confirmed by Jānis Citskovskis, the Director of the State Chancellery - reports by your responsible ministries have also named the guilty. I quote: ‘... in response to the decisions reflected in the minutes of the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, it can be concluded that a number of decisions remained unfulfilled due to a lack of political support’. Let us give this political support for the reduction of regulation, and I call for support for the further progress of the submitted draft law. Although I can agree that reducing mechanical legislation is not the most sensible approach, otherwise we can do this for decades. Please support the handover of the draft law to the Legal Commission and it will find the best way and way to start this work. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U23	Mr. Pat has applied to speak to Mr. Kaspars Ģirgens.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U24	Dear Members of the Committee. I very much like to speak on behalf of the Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit. We have so far seen seven proposals in the draft law to be passed on to the commissions, and I would like to say that each of our parties - including Congregation and CPV LV - should fulfil our promises during the pre-elections. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Dombrovskis: “The country must start with itself!” ) I would, however, like to draw attention to the fact that the draft laws that are being tabled, such as those seven on which we are talking, must be prepared in a more qualitative way so that we understand where we will get money and how we will live in the future. But what did I mean? That's this. ... By accepting this bill at least in the commission, we spend... EUR 3500 as a minimum (Interface from the political group: “Lie!” ) if we do not reject it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Zakaitistov: “Right!” ) If this draft law is accepted, the maximum amount is EUR 25 000. ( INTERCREATE FROM THE GROUP: “Lies! ” ) Thus, I very much call for mildness (Dep. A. Zakaitistov: “Right!” ) against taxpayers’ money. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U25	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission the draft law “Amendment to the parliamentary order roll”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 31, 50, abstain - not. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the Member Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Čakša, Vacana, Many, Plant and Bergmanis' draft law on Amendments to the Law on Gambling and Gamings be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ “A Member, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U26	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Colleagues! In gambling from entertainment to addiction to the bog is one step. Gambling sites are usually without windows, without clock. And here the substance of addiction is both money and emotions. The big jackpot is often flashing in front of the eye. The invitation to earn big money at low rates, of course, creates an illusion that you will be able to pay for all your loans or at least for some time to live green. And so many people get captive, their families are injured. They are in debt, forced to leave work, and much more tragedy comes. There is no accurate record in Latvia of the number of people who depend on gambling. But psychotherapy tells us that sports totalizers and online casino players are becoming more and more younger and younger. It can be seen that there are also a very large number of people every year who have themselves applied to the inspection of the monitoring of gambling with a request that they be denied access to gambling sites, whether they are not in an interactive environment or those in an interactive environment. By the end of 2018, almost 1500 requests from individuals have been received at the inspection to prevent such games from being played. And also on interactive gambling sites organizers have received more than 9300 such personal requests. The purpose of this bill, colleagues, is to create a register of persons who depend on gambling, where a person can apply and ask to exclude himself from the possibility of playing different types of gambling and also participate in lotteries. The minimum period would be 12 months but could be extended at the request of a person. Accordingly, after a while, it would be... It is thought that regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers would delegate how a person can also remove himself from this register of dependants. Draft law gives delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the order and duties of each of the parties. The idea is: if a person has included himself in the register, then a gambling operator must make sure that there is no person in that register before allowing gambling to play. The regulation already in force provides that at a particular game organizer... a person has the right to ask himself to be entered in such a register. But the problem is: at one I have asked to do it and there I will not be able to play it, but others do not see it, and I can go to another gambling site, face-to-face or interactive, and continue to lose money. There are studies, of course, on the fact that gambling addiction is not related to social status and gender. There are, of course, bigger prerequisites when there is an inheritance. But to a large extent it really depends on the availability of gambling. And we see - in Riga, when you drive on the Chaka Street, there is a winner in every quarter. In smaller cities and districts, even churches may not be available, but the winner will certainly be. The fact that accessibility is now that it is being promoted that people become dependent. It is the idea that such a register would be set up from 1 January 2020 because it would, of course, require preparatory work, small investments. It can certainly also be financed from unforeseen funds; funds can be found through a review of the expenditure of a restaurant. In each of the following years, there are also small maintenance costs. But, in my opinion, those investments are disproportionate. In other words, investment is very small compared to the benefits that this would bring to society. While this register is being set up, a person could ask himself to be included already this year. I call for support for this draft law to be passed on to the commissions, for work to continue in the Saeima and then for this regulation to be adopted as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U27	Mr. Artus Kaimiņš has applied to speak. ( Independence: “Servious! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U28	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Returning to the past requires a 'no' vote. ( Subtitle: “Trust, if? ”) ) There is no other option, because in the past we have always voted against objective, good proposals from the opposition. And no matter what it says. In this case, all those who still believe in past declarations to all articles and treaties that were before this Saeima - 12. In the family - the mandatory vote is "no"! Because this is the opposition proposal! That's exactly what... written inside, here... 13 of which we have agreed. In the Saeima that the substance of the proposals will be examined! But those who live in the past vote against. Those who are present and here, in turn, vote in favour. When we talk about gambling, it is a matter of priority that we also have very big problems in an interactive environment. In this case, we are not so much talking about addiction as about grey areas. More than 50 percent of online gambling is in the grey area. Fifty percent! You can advertise gambling in Latvia, but you can't advertise rates. At this point, I'll give you... Well, you all have computers, type in: the sports center. com. Sports center. com is not registered in Latvia, so there is com. It's not a Latvian domain. The first one, which will then jump out, will be OleBet.lv, and OleBet you can immediately put the bets. And then we get reversed proportionality. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Dombrovskis: “A man of knowledge!” ) That is exactly what, a knowledgeable man, Vjačeslav Dombrovskis, yes, this issue is now on the agenda of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, because we must not advertise rates, but we can advertise the way... when sports take place... Go there and then you will return to the Latvian domain... So that's not right! Those who live in the past of course vote 'no'. Because in this... according to the Rules of Procedure of the roll is that one speaks “for”, the other speaks “for”. I call on the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy to pay attention and, in the future, to be sure to open up this law and once again understand, to sort out this incoherent issue of gambling... that's on the Internet. There, both IP addresses are changed every other day, and you can change... I can imagine one letter for such or another gambling site, and this pumping of money continues. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunovo intersage.) Among other things, what the previous speaker said about addiction, diseases and so on. This register is eligible unless it pays... Mr. Feldman, as you said, how much register is usually... half a million could be paid out if? ( Milestones.) 700 thousand? Unless it pays these millions or half a million and so on. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “80 thousand!” ) Of course, there is a need for support. On the other hand, according to the Rule of Procedure, all those who live 12. In the family, you definitely don't support this, because it's in no way... is a proposal from the opposition, it must not be supported as such if! So please support. Thank you. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U29	What to do, the Member has spoken against... So we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission to the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Gambling and Gaming", according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 80. Thank you very much. , against and refrains - not. Well, colleagues... Now, at least those Members who speak 'no' to refer a draft law to the Commission - please stick to what has been said in the debate. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Nemiņš: “I am speaking against!” ) Let us continue. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Legalization of Documents” be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Movement of Goods of Strategic Importance” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to this draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Corporate Income Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” presented by the Social and Labour Affairs Commission be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Law on the application of the legal framework following the withdrawal from the European Union of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda is the report by the Saeima Bureau on its own-initiative proposal. Members Lochmele-Luņova, Cilevičs, Agešins, Kabanovs, Krišāns, Kucins, Goldbergs, Tutins, Ribakovs and Zarins have submitted a draft decision “On the granting of funding for the operation of the Latvian Radio 4 and the English and Russian language portal LSM.lv”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. On the granting of leave. For unpaid leave granted to Member Julija Stepanenko on 7 February this year. The Saeima Bureau has received a request from Member Julia Stepanenko to grant her unpaid leave on 7 February this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to Member Boris Cilevič on 13 and 14 February this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Boris Cilevičs requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 13 and 14 February this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For granting unpaid leave to Member Vita Anda Steel from 11 to 13 March. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for granting unpaid leave to Member Vita Anda Steel from 11 to 13 March this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. For granting unpaid leave to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis from 19 February to 21 February this year. Please call me! We will vote for granting unpaid leave to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis from 19 February to 21 February this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. Decision adopted. For granting unpaid leave to Member Rihard Cole on 21 February this year. Please call me! We will be voting to give my Member Rihard Cole unpaid leave on 21 February this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Juris Rancāns from the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal from the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit of the Saeima Member Juris Rancāns. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Juris Jušas from the National Security Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Juris Jušas from the National Security Commission. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. And the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Juris Rancāns to the National Security Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Juris Rancāns to the National Security Commission. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law ‘Amendment to the law on the declaration of cash at the national border’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U30	Colleagues, see Draft Law No. 11/Lp13, third reading. There is no proposal at third reading, so please support the draft legislation at final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U31	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Declaration of Cash at the State Border”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U32	Good morning! Consequently, the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement’ is under consideration. These amendments provide for a stricter framework for the procurement of security services in order to limit unjustified public funding and to reduce the shadow economy in this service sector. Similarly, amendments to the law provide for an exception to the application of procurement procedures in the process of evaluation of study direction included in the Register of Quality Assurance of Academic Information Centre or European Higher Education Agency. Five proposals were received to the third reading committee. Let's start looking at them. 1. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Partially supported, included 2. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U33	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U34	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U35	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U36	3. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U37	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U38	4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U39	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U40	5. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U41	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U42	Consequently, all five proposals have been examined. Please support the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U43	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law on public procurement! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs asks to make changes to the agenda of the sitting and to consider draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maritime Administration and Maritime Safety”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Arthur Tom Ples.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U44	Hello, colleagues! We see amendments to the Law on Maritime Administration and Maritime Safety in the third, final, reading. These amendments are linked to the International Convention for the Control and Management of Marine ballast water and sediment, 2004 or so-called ‘Ballast Convention’. That Convention was adopted by the Saeima in 2018 by law. No proposals. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U45	Please call me! We will vote for support for the third, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Administration and Maritime Safety of the Sea”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Mr Daniel Pavluts.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U46	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Colleagues, Colleagues! Congratulations to you in Your Hearty Day! At third reading, we will see amendments to the Construction Law. These amendments are, as has already been mentioned, in order to complete the start of the construction information system, so that this system fully operates digitally, so that the whole process of requesting, harmonising and issuing building permits takes place in a fully electronic way - in the digital environment. We have a number of proposals. Let's start looking at it. Proposal No 1. This is a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U47	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U48	2. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Partly supported. Incorporated 3. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U49	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U50	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U51	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U52	4. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U53	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U54	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U55	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U56	6. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Partly supported. Incorporated 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U57	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U58	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U59	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U60	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partly supported and included in the next Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U61	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U62	9. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U63	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U64	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U65	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U66	11. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Partly supported. Incorporated in 12. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U67	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U68	12. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U69	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U70	13. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Not supported, but specified and supported by the Commission in proposal 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U71	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U72	And finally 14. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Not supported. But it's solved... and included with 7. - the Commission's proposal... Please support...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U73	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U74	Please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U75	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U76	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U77	On the agenda - Draft Law on Competition, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U78	Hello! We shall continue to work with the draft law “Amendments to the Competition Law”. The draft law provides for an obligation on public persons and their capital companies to ensure free and fair competition in their activities, thereby providing instruments for the Competition Council to monitor compliance with this obligation. For the second reading, six proposals were received at the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. So it's 1. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U79	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U80	2. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U81	Members support... Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. About 2, huh? Proposal No 2
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U82	Colleagues! In my opinion, proposal 2 has not been fully negotiated with non-governmental organisations. At the moment, my work of the Competition Council is not fully convinced. We see examples - taxis at the airport “Riga”. Is that what we should be proud of? I don't think so. And to me in particular in this Competition Council fight against Riga... It is all right, all respect for what they are doing, but I think the regions will be the greatest victims, because relations between entrepreneurs, municipalities and public administrations in the regions are the most uncertain, disputes are very common there, and now extending powers to an institution, to intervene in disputes between an entrepreneur and a public person is not the right step. It would be such a forced privatisation in places where it is not necessary. There are a number of examples that I could mention when a public person is fighting against rogue entrepreneurs by using the instruments of the Competition Council at the end. I will certainly go to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, tell Members about these examples... when, in my opinion, they are being used in bad faith. Let me give you one example. And the municipalities... is such an elemental thing in apartment houses - heat meters. With regard to heat meters, we also looked at cases of very large water losses at the Public Expenditure and Audit Commission in the previous Saeima. These water losses must, of course, help citizens to fight... how to deal with them, because this water is, by its very nature, stolen. Searching for solutions, it was found that there is a private businessman who unscrupulously helps people to steal water. He's certified, okay. Of course, tax is not paid. At a time when the various instruments have been fighting for years with this imprudent businessman, a letter from the Competition Council is being received that they see they are fighting a businessman who is doing a good job, everything is fine. But at this point in time, I believe that dispute resolution is in the hands of the disputing parties themselves, and there is no need to give additional powers to the Competition Council to resolve these disputes. That is not right. I call for both proposals 2 and 3 not to be supported. I think there are a number of cases... The most striking case where nothing has yet changed... and I hope that the Minister of Transport will change something in this case, is Riga Airport, when foreign tourists arrive... We remember why such a situation has arisen there... In my opinion, this was not because Riga Airport simply wanted to do so. I call for both proposals 2 and 3 not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U83	Name to Member Daniel Pavilut.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U84	Good afternoon, honourable colleagues and honourable colleagues! I cannot really agree with what Mr Valaiņa said that the proposals mentioned above, the amendments mentioned in the Competition Law would be about disputes. It is not a dispute settlement law. It is a law on competition. I think we've all met in a public space (or perhaps someone else, directly and personally) with situations where public persons in the country... Unfortunately, companies owned by municipalities distort the competitive situation with cross-subsidisation by forcing service providers to cooperate only with certain public or municipal undertakings. We have seen countless examples, especially in the Riga City Council, but not only. We have seen both the purchase of high-comfort minibuses and scandals at the Freeport of Riga in relation to tugs; there are still ongoing and ongoing litigations. Indeed, it is about large amounts and damage to society in millions. And in many others... For example, Aqua Riga, local government newspapers... and other examples. Colleagues! Is it fair, proportionate and understandable, and also national, if still in our country, 28 years after the introduction of the market economy, you don't know why... state and municipal start-ups, not themselves... public authorities or municipalities or public and municipal agencies, but their established companies acting as traders in the commercial environment do not know why there are other rules in the game. We have penalties for private companies, we have a ban on private companies using a dominant position, we have a ban on discrimination against other market players, but this has not been the case for public and municipal companies. No, no... Well, of course - while the ZZS was in power, this could not be done! Well, the municipal blockade... The situation has changed at the moment. Colleagues! We have an historic opportunity to eliminate this injustice, to create a situation where the Competition Council, which is an international institution highly valued by professionals and also internationally (perhaps the most highly valued supervisory institution of this kind in Latvia on an international scale)... And look at these cases... In the next proposal... There will also be a proposal to impose penalties in such situations, so that it is not as it was until now that, unfortunately, it can be established that there are de facto infringements, and the only one that the Competition Council can do is to refer to the VARAM, which until now, in the previous administrations, has not shown itself to be particularly active in dealing with municipalities with, say, the finding of such infringements. In the case of Riga City Council we can also change this situation. If you are concerned about how municipalities, for example, in remote regions... maybe Mr Dombrava will mention it as the next speaker... how to implement the functions of this municipality... how to help, say, on various important issues... This law does not affect it, colleagues. One of the further amendments that will be made to this table is that the Competition Council should not interfere with and prevent the State, the municipality from exercising autonomous functions - those of the municipality. That's not a story here. This is not about disputes, Mr Valaiņš, it is about fair competition. State and municipal companies - just like private companies - must play under the same conditions of fair competition. Please support both proposals 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U85	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U86	Dear colleagues, The idea of this proposal is good, correct and acceptable. There is, of course, a question about this broad scope. In the case of Riga and other big economies... and in large cities it is right that competition cannot be distorted, distorted. In the case of Riga, this has happened, as well as many other disgusting violations. It has been pointed out on many occasions by the VARM during Kaspars Gerhard. And I would remind you that he also led the bill on the dismissal of the Riga City Council, which the previous government did not get to look at. But, of course, Mr. Puce... I hope that he will take this bill out of the drawer in the coming month and finally move forward. With regard to this proposal. It would have been better if we had worked hard at second reading to address all the concerns that arise with regard to rural areas, small economies. There will never be a market economy, there will be broad competition. Quite simply: population density in these areas is too low, money resources are too low to form a wide range of competition. And that is why, of course, the municipality must be involved or public authorities must be involved in order to promote some kind of economic activity in these areas. The other thing is, of course, Riga and the other major cities. I hope that, even if everything goes ahead today, at third reading really will be carefully worked out so that all these situations do not happen... implement in the life of which the Competition Council has mentioned that it will now have to look at whether or not manors in some remote municipality are allowed to rent premises for funeral ceremony for 20 euros or not. It would be absurd if the Competition Council devoted its resources to such small, non-essential matters. The Competition Council must focus essentially on the big issues. There are still cartels in Latvia in various areas, such as trade, where producers are imposed certain prices, and nothing is really done to prevent this. Such cartels exist with regard to the prices at which products are offered in many areas and results in huge administrative resources and legal assistance to prove this. If, shortly before the municipal elections, the Competition Council will have to respond to many of the applications that will appear in the regions of Dagda, Zilupes and Baltinava regarding any distortion of competition, then I think that simply this institution will be able to "stop". Therefore, I really support the ideas and hope that we will achieve the right, appropriate solution by the final reading so that the market distortions do not occur in the large economies that we have in Latvia, nor do we affect small rural areas at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U87	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U88	Colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! I will first of all say that I support this proposal and agree with what Mr Pavilut said about the fact that ideological municipalities do not have to do business. Local governments should create an environment for business to be interesting there. There are many examples where it has really been wrong, such as “Riga Water”. ‘ The task of Riga Water is to bring water to apartments, as says, in all taps at maximum good pressure and quality. ‘ Riga Water” does not have to be bottled with water in plastic bottles and compete with players on the market. At the same time, of course, a second ditch is possible. Mr Dombrava has already told us that the Competition Council will now come to the top of all the small regions, look at what is going on there and hit the fingers. I will give you an example when a municipality can perform such a classic business function, and this is only the case when there is a distortion of the market and this private service provider is not interested. I will name one foreign example. In the Federal Republic of Germany some time ago, it was very common that municipalities own slaughterhouses and also small processing plants near those slaughterhouses. The reason was simple. In view of all the complex requirements of the European Union for the certification of a slaughterhouse, and so on, in certain municipalities where there were few entrepreneurs who raised their livestock, they were unable to afford each of their own slaughterhouses. In turn, the private business player did not offer it. As a result, this function was assumed by the municipality. Every citizen could bring his own animal, kill him in a certified slaughterhouse, so that he could not only use it for his own consumption, but also sell it further. These slaughterhouses were used, for example, by hunters to split their hunts and could use the product certifiedly. Finally, in these slaughterhouses and processing facilities, the masters trained the disciples, and this was actually a well - known vocational training institution. No competition board for Germany... and the federal states have not criticised any of this name. If we approach the case in this way, it is clear that municipalities can do such things, and where a private businessman cannot or does not want to do so, or does not want to do so, this mistake can be corrected. But certainly not so that the municipality deals with business and competes with private players. Because logically, competition... it can be monitored in different ways. It will simply not be fair competition. It is clear that if the municipality owns a company, then the municipality will be interested in directing all resources to it. So I support the fact that the municipality doesn't have to do business, but I hope we don't go to the other ditch and where the municipality's business mistakes will be corrected, we won't punish it. So that is really a very big question about the Competition Council: what will the Competition Council's approach to this issue be? We will not describe everything in the law, we will not predict all cases. Just follow if there's... No exaggerating action. If any adjustment is to be made in this house, then let's do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U89	The name to Member Daniel Pavilut for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U90	Dear colleagues, I'm going to try not to hold your attention. I've got some details about what I'm just talking about. It was mentioned here that large municipalities should have greater responsibilities - and that consequently, more attention should be paid to them. There is a logic, because of course, the damage to society is much greater if Riga distorts competition than if it does, for example, in a small municipality at the border. Unfortunately, or fortunately, the law is one for all. One law, one right. Relevant rules of the game. We cannot create different rules for municipalities or companies of different sizes. So we've considered this. Second. For the third reading... and the colleagues who have already gone into the matter have understood this: it is necessary to elaborate these points in the law, giving examples of how these distortions, which could be carried out by local authorities and public undertakings, could take place. We have already agreed that for the third reading it would definitely be necessary to improve the more detailed version, which is also better understood by local authorities. Because the concern that there is one general, very broad point... This could create legitimate concerns for local government leaders as there would be new rules of the game. And finally, Mr. Schmidt's point. This is a rather common situation where the points of the Competition Law are confused with the regulation of the Law on State Administration. Whether or not the state and municipalities are engaged in business activities in general and in what cases - Article 88 of the Law on State Administration. There is a procedure in which to consider whether there is a market error or not, whether there is a strategic national interest or not... It's a salty other process. Today we are talking about the competition law, whether these rules of the game are the same for everyone. Thank you. Please support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U91	I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur want to add something after the debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U92	No, I don't want to add anything. I would like to repeat that proposal 2 has been supported by the Commission. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U93	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 55, for - 10, for - 17. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U94	Let's go. 3. - a motion from a Member, Mr Pavilut, supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U95	The previous speaker asked for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Member Pavluta's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -54, for -9, for -17. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U96	4. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U97	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U98	5. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U99	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U100	6. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U101	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U102	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U103	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Competition". Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -62, for -1, for -15. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U104	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 28 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U105	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U106	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U107	On the agenda - Draft law on amendments to the Immigration Law, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Aldis Blumbergs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U108	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Immigration” at first reading includes that the Cabinet of Ministers implements the codification of administrative offences. Thus, from the previous law, liability clauses are transferred to the special law, to the law on immigration. The formations of violations are specified, and the State Border Guard and the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs are established the right to impose penalties. This draft law has been endorsed at the Commission meeting on 5 February. The Commission is asking to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U109	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Immigration". Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 64, for - 15, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U110	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 1 March of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U111	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 1 March this year. Colleagues! Time to break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Dear colleagues, This week, our fellow Member Janina Kursīte celebrated the half-circle anniversary, and today's birthday is celebrated by Member Didzis Schmidt. We stand up and welcome them. (Applause) Thank you. Name for the statement to Member Aldim Adamovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U112	Good morning, colleagues! In three minutes' time, I call on my colleagues from the Group of Members to cooperate with the Ukrainian Parliament to meet at a small meeting in the Yellow Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U113	Name for notification to the Secretary of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U114	I'm very sorry, but you're not going to meet because the Red Hall is already supposed to... a meeting was opened to the Fragmentation Council and the Saeima Bureau. Maybe come back later, but I ask all the group leaders and the Saeima Bureau to the Red Hall. Thank you. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U115	So colleagues in the Yellow Hall are holding a meeting announced by Mr Adamovich, and in the Red Hall there is a meeting of the Fraction Council. ( Milestones.) All misunderstandings have been resolved. Name to a member of the Saeima Secretary - to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U116	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Aldis Blumbergs... is, Mārtiņš Bondars, Boriss Cilevičs, Anda Čakša, Ilmārs Dūritis, Inese Ikstena, Artuss Neimins... ( Insight: “There was! ” ) is, Ivan Clementyev, Rihard Kozlowski... I'm sorry, Cazinovskis... No, Ieva Krapāne (Interface: “Casinovskis is!” )... yes, yes? I'm sorry, I was wrong! Rihard Kozlowsky... Really. Really! Yeah. Ieva Krapāne, Jānis Krišāns... There is, Romans Nadiņš, Ramona Petraviča, Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska, Inese Voika and Evita Zālīte-Gross.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U117	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U118	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can continue the Saeima sitting. On the agenda: Draft law on Amendments to the Criminal Law, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juta Strike.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U119	Hello, dear colleagues! The Legal Commission has prepared for second reading a draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Law”. 24 proposals have been received and evaluated by the Commission. The proposal is submitted by the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U120	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U121	2. There is also a proposal from the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U122	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U123	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U124	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U125	Proposal No 4 has been submitted by the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U126	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U127	5. is the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U128	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U129	6. is the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. The proposal is partly supported by the Commission and included in proposal 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U130	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U131	7. is a proposal from the Legal Commission. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U132	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U133	Proposal No 8 has been submitted by the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U134	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U135	9. is the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U136	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U137	Proposal No 10 has been submitted by the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U138	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U139	The 11th proposal has been submitted by the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U140	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U141	12. is the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U142	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U143	Proposal 13 has been submitted by the Legal Office. The proposal is partly supported by the Commission and included in proposal 14.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U144	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U145	Proposal No 14 has been tabled by... 14 is a proposal from the Legal Commission. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U146	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U147	Proposal 15 has been submitted by the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. The proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U148	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U149	16. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. The Legal Commission has not supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U150	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U151	The 17th proposal has been submitted by the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Partly supported by the Commission, included in proposal 18.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U152	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U153	18. the proposal has been submitted by the Legal Commission. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U154	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U155	19. is the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U156	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U157	20. is the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U158	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U159	The 21st proposal has also been submitted by the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U160	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U161	22. is the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U162	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U163	Proposal 23 has been submitted by Zanda Kalniņa-Lukaševica, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U164	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U165	Proposal No 24 has been submitted by the Legal Commission. The proposal was supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U166	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U167	Please approve the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U168	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Criminal Law". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, against and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U169	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 7 March 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U170	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 7 March this year. Dear colleagues, Changes to the agenda of the sitting have been tabled. Members Kaimiņš, Benhen-Beeken, Geidāns, Blumbergs, Sprūde and others are asking for a draft decision to be included on the agenda of the sitting on “On the withdrawal of Alda Gobzems from the National Security Commission of the Saeima Member”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Gobzems, Smits, Augulis, Liepiņa, Sprūde, Stepanenko and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On reducing the number of existing ministries and consolidating government functions”. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U171	Hello, colleagues! Hello, people's servants! The proposal that I have tabled needs some clarification of history. Before the elections, I, along with the Member of the suspected of serious crimes, Artus Kaiņi (The Hall laughter) I visited Latvia several times a week preaching that there is too much public administration in Latvia, that there are too many ministries in Latvia and that we, Members of the Saeima, are spending taxpayers' money too uselessly. I hope that, although the suspect Artuss Kaimiņš is desperately trying to praise Krišjānis Kariņš on his private morning coffee portal in his serious crime, he and my former party members have not forgotten this promise made before the elections. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Go to KNAB!” ) Our biggest ally and competitor in the pre-election campaign - the new conservative party - also pointed out that one of the main tasks was to reduce the number of ministries (Interinstitutional call). and consolidation of public administration. A reduction of at least 30 per cent of the state administration's apparatus was a promise given to the voters, but for which, after approval by the government, these politicians have forgotten. Usually, opposition representatives are accused of unconstructive proposals. What I propose today is the question... not immediately and without delay reduce the number of ministries or optimise and consolidate public administration by 30 per cent or any other percentage... I propose not only to include this issue on the agenda, but also to adopt a decision of the Saeima to ask the Cabinet of Ministers to analyse the issue in the annual section and then, in accordance with the budget for 2020, to arrive at a reduction in the number of ministers, to arrive at consolidation of the state apparatus by the required percentage... the number to meet the voter's promise. This issue is essential because our society is no longer able to sustain the expanded state apparatus. Our society... people leave Latvia for this very reason. In our society, there is a misunderstanding about how Members can spend... pray that they be reimbursed for fuel expenditure by living here at the other end of the park. I think that these issues are important and I believe that they are in the public interest as a whole. I ask you to put this item on the agenda. I call on the JPV LV and the UK to remember their pre-election promises made in full halls on television screens. And I call for both the number of ministries and the number of ministers to be reduced, as well as the consolidation and reduction of expenditure in public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U172	Do Members object to the inclusion of this item on the agenda of today's sitting? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Ozola: “Yes!” ; dep. A. Neighbours: “Of course!” ) Members have reservations. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft decision on the reduction of the existing number of ministries and consolidation of government functions (interoperable call from the Group: “Evil! Huge shame!” ) inclusion on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 31, no one for - 47, no one for - 47. The order of business is therefore not amended. The draft decision shall not be placed on the agenda of the sitting. Members Dombrovskis, Valainis, Reizniece-Ozola, Papaule, Krišāns, Zarins and others ask that the draft decision “On the election of the Saeima Member Alda Gobzems to the Commission for Sustainable Development” be put on the agenda. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. We shall continue to examine the agenda. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Welfare Organisations”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Aldis Adamovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U173	Good morning, colleagues! In its meeting, the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Welfare Organisations” and prepared it for the first reading. The aim of the draft law is to improve or improve the norms of public benefit organisations by ensuring the improvement of public benefit process in order to improve cooperation between public benefit organisations and tax administration, as well as to reduce the administrative burden for the parties involved, for example, by establishing a clearer regulation in the process of obtaining and monitoring status. I mean, right now... 2779 public benefit organisations have been registered on 1 October 2018, i.e. those organisations that are currently expected to be affected by this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U174	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Dace Bluke.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U175	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The Commission supported the decision to direct these amendments to the sitting with the argument that these are technical amendments that organise and clearly define the activities of the SRS in relation to the work of the Commission and reduce the administrative burden. They are highly supportive and forward-looking. However, I invite you to pay attention to at least three points, which will not only make technical arrangements for the work of the committee responsible for the SRS, but will also affect associations and foundations. I will clarify what it relates to. In October 2018, 2779 public benefit organizations were active in Latvia, most of which – 2336 – were associations, 362 – foundations, as well as 81 religious organizations, and in total they represent about 10 percent of all societies and foundations. How will the situation change with regard to these non-governmental organisations? First. One of the amendments states that the State Revenue Service takes a decision on refusal to grant public benefit organization status without a reasoned opinion. It is followed by a number of conditions, including documents which have not been submitted at the time or which have not been submitted in detail. Society is founded by various people - according to hobbies, diseases, professions, other interests - and not always these people work with bureaucratic things, documents, paperwork. If anyone is confused or not completely presented with all the necessary documents, then refusal without justification - it does not seem in any way to be an example of good governance, and I am very embarrassed by such an amendment. Second. The amendments also include one conflicting norm with the Law on Society and Foundations. The State Revenue Service shall take a decision on the refusal to grant the status of public benefit organisation to an organisation where the security authority has established that the operation of the organisation poses risks to the interests of national security. At the same time, the Law on Society and Foundations provides that if a public organisation poses a security threat to the state, the operation of such an organisation should be suspended. There is no point in considering at all - whether or not to grant the status of a public benefit organisation - because such an organisation is to be suspended. And the third, which I in no way can be seen as a technical amendment. One of the arguments when the SRS assesses whether or not public benefit organisation status should be granted is the activity report of the previous year. This precludes newly created organisations from being eligible for the status of public benefit organisation. They do not yet have an annual report. When I asked the SRS employees how then is this newly established organisation applying for the status of a public benefit organisation, I received an answer that it is difficult to count, because it should be done manually, but at every meeting by some time. And the sittings are twice a month. Well, when it reads very primitively, they are 24 or more organisations that are difficult to count manually, which will now be denied the status of a public benefit organisation. I would like to remind you that these benefits have not been so high since the tax reform, which has reduced the number of potential donors. The Society may claim either a property tax credit, if there is one, or some benefit offered by private organisations, if the Society has the status of a public-interest organisation. So that I call for support for the amendments, paying attention to the fact that, for future readings, the draft law is organised in such a way that these really are technical amendments that reduce bureaucracy, but do not in any way impair the work of associations, foundations and religious organisations.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U176	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U177	Hello, colleagues! First of all, thank you very much, very much to Mrs Bluke for having quite accurately referred to all the painful, controversial issues that we spoke about at the commission meeting. The only thing I do not agree with is that absolutely all the amendments tabled by the State Revenue Service for the first reading are technical, because these amendments contain a very important idea that the status of a public benefit organisation can only be obtained by NGOs once they have been working for one year in the field for which it then requires the status of a public benefit organisation. What does that mean? Under Public benefit organisations law, this status is granted... could also be granted to organisations set up in the context of disaster assistance. I mentioned the work of the organisation Zolitūde 21.11. as a concrete example in the meetings of the committee, because it received this status literally after a month and a half of its establishment. If such an amendment, called technical, were to be adopted, it would automatically mean that if God did not give us any further disaster, this status would not be granted even if such societies were to be founded by the victims of the disaster. The same applies to a person with limited... organisations with special needs, where they are themselves beneficiaries of it. So I very much ask all Members to pay attention to this open law, to carefully assess it, and to inform the NGOs you know about the forthcoming changes. Because I know that there are very many people who do charity, social activities, but who simply do not have time to set up an NGO, and who rely on the law to allow them to obtain the status of a public benefit organisation soon after they have nevertheless registered such an association or establishment in the Register of Enterprises. Please note that the law may include changes that will deny them this opportunity. I therefore call on all Members to prepare for the debate, read the draft law and submit their proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U178	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U179	Colleagues! It's very short. I will not repeat what the previous speaker said. In a way, I join in everything but, in my opinion, the most important nuance in this draft law, which should be given the most attention, is that the way in which people are delegated to this board, which decides on the status of public benefit organisation, is being changed. In fact, at the moment, it is the Cabinet of Ministers who is doing this. This draft law provides for a change of law, namely to establish that it is the State Revenue Service, which puts these people forward. In the past, it was done by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, whereas now it's a Latvian... all responsibilities are transferred to one institution. That, in my opinion, is not right. In my opinion, first reading of the draft law is the right time to talk about it. I do not agree with such a solution. In my opinion, this should be removed from the draft law, so to speak. I will also make such a proposal. And I call on colleagues to then work and study in this particular section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U180	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added before the vote?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U181	Yeah. Colleagues, the commission listened to many different views. And in order to be able to work fully, on behalf of the Commission, I call for support at first reading. And let us really wait for proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U182	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Welfare Organisations”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U183	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 14 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U184	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 14 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law on bailiffs”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U185	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has examined and prepared for the second reading the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Judicial Executives”. The draft law provides for amendments which set a limit for the adoption of large-scale recovery cases, as well as for changes in the procedure of record keeping and statistical accounting. 1. is the proposal of the Legal Office. Taking into account the discussions held in the Commission that the drawing up of the list of non-registered movable property cannot be implemented by the bailiff in the manner provided for in Article 1 of the draft law, and such obligation cannot be imposed on the bailiff, the proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U186	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U187	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Mr Rasnačs, which is identical to 1. - a proposal from the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U188	Members support proposal 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U189	3. - a proposal by the Minister of Justice, which provides that a limited number of enforcement documents shall be adopted for the recovery of claims in one calendar year in which the recoveror is not exempt from payment of execution expenses under the Civil Procedure Law and in which the amount to be recovered is at least EUR 10 000. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U190	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U191	4. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which provides that the procedure by which an sworn bailiff shall, at the request of interested parties, draw up an inventory of the heritage shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers on the basis of the invitation of the sworn notary. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U192	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U193	5. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U194	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U195	6. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U196	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U197	7. - the proposal of the Legal Bureau, which is a editorial clarification of the wording of Section 160.1 of the Law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U198	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U199	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. On transitional provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U200	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U201	9. - a proposal by the Legal Bureau which excludes a reference to the entry into force of the law, which provides for a date which has already passed. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U202	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U203	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U204	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Performers of the Courts”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U205	Proposals for third reading shall be submitted by 25 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U206	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 25 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pharmaceuticals”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Vitaly Orlovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U207	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pharmaceuticals” (No. 175/Lp13). Amendments were prepared by the Ministry of Health and submitted to Parliament through the Cabinet of Ministers. The amendments were prepared in accordance with the Cabinet of Ministers’ Order on Conceptual Report “On Reform of the Health Care System” and Cabinet Order on Reorganization of State Administration Institutions Under the Ministry of Health, and they provide for reform regarding re-allocation of functions of institutions under the Ministry of Health. The amendments provide for the reorganisation of state administration institutions under the Ministry of Health and the reorganisation of the National Health Service, as well as the transfer to the State Medicines Agency of the functions established by this Order: to evaluate the cost efficiency of medicinal products, medical devices and medical technologies used in medical treatment and to approve medical technologies used in medical treatment. In order to implement the above mentioned functions, please amend the Pharmaceutical Law. The Commission discussed these amendments at its meeting, unanimously supported them and asked the Saeima to support them at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U208	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pharmaceuticals”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U209	Proposals are expected until 1 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U210	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 1 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Protection of the Dead’s Body and Use of Human Tissues and Organs in Medicine”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Andris Skride.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U211	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the law “On the Protection of the Dead’s Body and Use of Human Tissues and Organs in Medicine””. The draft law was drawn up by the Ministry of Health. It is intended to improve the legal framework and to bring the law into line with the Council of Europe Convention. A total of 10 proposals have been received. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported. Incorporated 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U212	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U213	2. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U214	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U215	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U216	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U217	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U218	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U219	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U220	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U221	6. - a proposal from Member Anda Chaksh. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U222	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U223	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported. Incorporated in 8. - in the proposal from the Commission:
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U224	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U225	8 / 8 - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U226	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U227	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U228	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U229	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U230	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U231	Please support the draft law as a whole at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U232	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On the Protection of the Dead’s Body and Use of Human Tissues and Organs in Medicine”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U233	Submission deadline for third reading: 15 March 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U234	13 March, huh?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U235	March 15, 2008
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U236	March 15, 2008 Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 15 March this year. On the agenda - draft law on insurance and reinsurance distribution, second reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Atis Zakaistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U237	Hello! We've been working for the law on insurance and reinsurance. It will be a very important law for society, because it will arrange this sector, make services more accessible and cheaper. There are 158 proposals in total. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U238	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U239	2. - the proposal of Minister for Finance, Mr Reizniece-Ozola. Supported. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “What is D?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U240	Dan... Dan! Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U241	3. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U242	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U243	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U244	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U245	5. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U246	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U247	6. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U248	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U249	7. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U250	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U251	8 / 8 - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U252	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U253	9. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U254	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U255	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U256	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U257	11. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U258	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U259	12. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U260	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U261	13. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U262	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U263	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U264	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U265	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U266	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U267	16. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U268	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U269	17. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U270	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U271	18. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Partially supported, included 19. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U272	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U273	19. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U274	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U275	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U276	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U277	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U278	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U279	22. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U280	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U281	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U282	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U283	24. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U284	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U285	25. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U286	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U287	26. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U288	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U289	27. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U290	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U291	28. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U292	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U293	29. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U294	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U295	30. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U296	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U297	31. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U298	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U299	32. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U300	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U301	33. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U302	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U303	34. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Partially supported, included 35. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U304	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U305	35. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U306	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U307	36. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U308	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U309	37. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U310	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U311	38. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U312	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U313	39. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U314	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U315	40. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U316	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U317	41. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U318	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U319	42. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U320	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U321	43. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U322	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U323	44. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U324	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U325	45. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U326	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U327	46. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U328	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U329	47. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U330	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U331	48. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U332	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U333	49. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U334	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U335	50. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U336	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U337	51. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U338	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U339	52. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U340	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U341	53. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U342	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U343	54. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U344	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U345	55. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U346	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U347	56. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U348	Not supported, and Members do not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U349	I'm sorry, colleagues!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U350	56!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U351	56. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U352	Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U353	56. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Unfortunately, it has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U354	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U355	57. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U356	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U357	58. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U358	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U359	59. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U360	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U361	60. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U362	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U363	61. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U364	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U365	62. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U366	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U367	63. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U368	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U369	64. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Partially supported, included 65. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U370	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U371	65. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U372	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U373	66. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U374	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U375	67. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U376	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U377	68. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U378	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U379	69. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U380	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U381	70. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U382	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U383	71. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U384	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U385	72. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U386	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U387	73. - Ministry of Finance... the proposal by Minister Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U388	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U389	74. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U390	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U391	75. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U392	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U393	76. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U394	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U395	77. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U396	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U397	78. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U398	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U399	79. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U400	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U401	80. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U402	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U403	81. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U404	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U405	82. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U406	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U407	83. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U408	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U409	84. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U410	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U411	85. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U412	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U413	86. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U414	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U415	87. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U416	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U417	88. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U418	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U419	89. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U420	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U421	90. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U422	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U423	91. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U424	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U425	92. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U426	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U427	93. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U428	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U429	94. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U430	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U431	95. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U432	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U433	96. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U434	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U435	97. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U436	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U437	98. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U438	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U439	99. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U440	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U441	100. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U442	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U443	101. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U444	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U445	102. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U446	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U447	103. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U448	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U449	104. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U450	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U451	105. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U452	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U453	106. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U454	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U455	107. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U456	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U457	108. - Finance Minister Dan... Still... The proposal by the reseller-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U458	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U459	109. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U460	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U461	110. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U462	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U463	111. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U464	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U465	112. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U466	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U467	113. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U468	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U469	114. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U470	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U471	115. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U472	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U473	116. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U474	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U475	117. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U476	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U477	118. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U478	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U479	119. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U480	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U481	120. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U482	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U483	121. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U484	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U485	122. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U486	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U487	123. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U488	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U489	124. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U490	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U491	125. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U492	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U493	126. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U494	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U495	127. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U496	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U497	128. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U498	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U499	129. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U500	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U501	130. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U502	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U503	131. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U504	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U505	132. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U506	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U507	133. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U508	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U509	134. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U510	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U511	135. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U512	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U513	136 - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U514	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U515	137. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U516	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U517	138. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U518	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U519	139. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U520	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U521	140. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U522	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U523	141. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U524	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U525	142. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U526	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U527	143. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U528	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U529	144. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U530	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U531	145. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U532	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U533	146. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U534	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U535	147. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U536	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U537	148. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U538	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U539	149. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U540	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U541	Narrow rail... 150. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U542	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U543	151. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U544	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U545	152. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U546	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U547	153. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U548	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U549	154. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U550	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U551	155. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U552	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U553	156. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U554	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U555	157. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U556	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U557	Do not resist, it will soon be over! 158. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U558	Members are in favour. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U559	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U560	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on insurance and reinsurance distribution! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U561	February 28th.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U562	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Insurance and Reinsurance Act”, second reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Atis Zakaistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U563	We have worked on the draft law “Amendments to Insurance and Reinsurance Law” and have examined the following proposals. No surprise: 1. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U564	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U565	2. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U566	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U567	3. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U568	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U569	That's all. Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U570	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Insurance and Reinsurance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please also set a deadline for the submission of proposals for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U571	February 28th.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U572	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 February this year. Thank you to the rapporteur for his report on both draft laws. On the agenda we have reached the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits”. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Edmunds Teirumnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U573	Highly honored members of the Saeima Presidium! The Saeima! The draft law and its urgency. The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has prepared the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits”. Draft law has been drafted in connection with case No. 2018-21-01 “On Compliance of Para 2 of Section 4(1) and Para 2 of Section 20(1) of the Law on State Social Benefits with Article 91 and Article 109 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia insofar as it concerns remuneration for the performance of guardian’s duties”. According to the Civil Law, the father and the mother are natural guardians of their minor child on the basis of the right of custody. At a time when the parents of the child are no longer able to exercise their custody over the child (e.g. the parents of the child have died, lost, terminated or deprived of custody, the parents are unable to take care of the child due to long-term illness), it is necessary to seek the person who could become the guardian of the child. The guardian shall be a person appointed or approved in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Civil Law to ensure the protection of the rights and interests of the child. The guardian shall replace his dependent parents and represent the child in his personal and financial relations. Pursuant to Article 10 of the Law, a person appointed as guardian in accordance with the procedure laid down by law shall have the right to receive remuneration for the performance of the guardian’s duties. Pursuant to Article 4 and Article 20 of the Law, payment shall be suspended if the beneficiary or child leaves for permanent residence abroad. At the moment, it is obvious that after the establishment of the guardianship and the appointment of the guardian to the child, the guardian, together with the accused, moves to live abroad, while the guardian continues to perform his guardian’s duties against the child, but no longer pays for it. Consequently, the purpose of the draft law is to remedy this situation and to ensure that the guardian is remunerated for the performance of his duties even if he is permanently resident abroad. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, I also call for urgentness to be given to this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U574	Colleagues! So we have to decide on urgency. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U575	On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, I call for the draft law to be approved at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U576	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U577	February 19th, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U578	This is the deadline for submitting proposals?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U579	Yeah. February 19th.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U580	And the timing of the Saeima sitting? ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U581	28 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U582	On February 28th the Saeima sitting, her? Thank you. Deadline for the submission of proposals - 19 February this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 28 February this year. We are on the agenda until the draft decisions are examined. Draft decision “On the change of the commission responsible for draft law “Amendments to the Ģerbonis Law” (No. 89/Lp13).’ On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juta Strike.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U583	So now I'm here... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike has failed to put the card in the voting machine. Depp. A. Klementjev: “You can talk!” ) I want not only to speak, but also to vote. ( Internouncing call.) I don't know what to do, it doesn't work. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Appendix: “Muse!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U584	Can technical staff help you cope? ( The transcripts are: ‘ Maybe you should take another card?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “; “Jusha! ” ‘Credit card’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U585	I'm not taking you! ( Interface: ‘ Vote by Your Hand! ’) ) All right, yeah. I hope there will be no objections here... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Klementyeva’s intermediate call.) Yes, it is! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U586	Did it work, huh? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U587	Currently, amendments to the law “On the State coat of arms of Latvia” are being discussed at the Legal Commission. These are the amendments that are being examined in the framework of the codification, and we found in the Legal Commission that for compelling reasons... What historical... Due to the historical events of the Saeima, it is very similar... very similar amendments to the law - “Amendments to the Ģerbonis Law” - are currently being examined by the Education, Culture and Science Commission. In order to be able to assess the proportionality of penalties and the consistency of these laws, please refer this draft law to another commission responsible for examining these amendments, namely the Legal Commission. Please vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U588	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the change of the commission responsible for the draft law on amendments to the Ģerbonu law (No. 89/Lp13)’. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On the change of the commission responsible for draft law “Amendments to the Law of Vidzeme, Latgale, Kurzeme and Zemgale” (No. 106/Lp13).’ On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juta Strike.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U589	This draft law is the same. The draft law “Amendments to Vidzeme, Latgale, Kurzeme and Zemgale German Law” is also located at the Education, Culture and Science Commission, which is currently the committee responsible. In this case too, it is not really understandable how it got there. I therefore ask for the Legal Commission to be responsible for this draft law as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U590	The draft law came there, and I have to say, with the parliamentary procedure, in accordance with the rule of law of the Saeima, with the consent of all Members. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the change of the commission for the draft law “Amendments to the Law of Vidzeme, Latgale, Kurzeme and Zemgale” (No. 106/Lp13)’. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Thank you. On the agenda is the examination of the own-initiative proposal. Project “On funding for operation of Latvian Radio 4 and public media portal LSM.lv English and Russian version”. Mrs Lochmeles-Lunova, will you speak on behalf of the rapporteurs? On behalf of the applicants, Member Regina Ločmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U591	Hello, fellow Members, again! How do you all know... Those who were at the last sitting of the Saeima know that we submitted a draft decision aimed at: “To ask the Cabinet of Ministers to immediately ensure the provision of funding for the operation of the Latvian Radio 4 and the public media portal LSM.lv English and Russian language version according to the National Identity, Civil Society and Integration Policy Implementation Plan.” The majority of the Saeima, which mostly represents the new ruling coalition, voted a week ago against the inclusion of this draft decision on the agenda of the Saeima meeting last week. And I am very glad that literally a ruling coalition met for a special seminar a few hours after last week's meeting and decided to find this money for the versions of "Latvijas Radio 4" and portal lsm.lv in Russian and English. In this way, as Prime Minister Kariņš said, the coalition has found a solution to continue the activities of Latvijas Radio 4 and lsm.lv English and Russian versions, and concerns about this issue have been eliminated. But at the same time he pointed out that technical questions on this matter should be asked by the Ministry of Finance. Today we are talking about possible mergers between ministries. I think that when we look at how work is going on on the 2019 budget, we have every opportunity to combine, for example, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Welfare. We see how quickly the Ministry of Finance found 49 million in the Ministry of Welfare budget because... Indeed, perhaps we do not know how big fiscal reserves are at the disposal of the new government and how big are the safety cushions that have been planned in previous years in each of the next years' budgets. However, when talking about concerns, it should be said that although concerns about “Latvijas Radio 4” funding and funding of portal lsm.lv have been eliminated, there are already new concerns, Mr. And I would like to listen to you about that and to learn that its concerns will also be eliminated. They are concerned about the financing of the content in the Russian language “Latvian Television”. I can inform Members of the Saeima that out of the six products produced with the Russian content “Latvian Television”, one product has already been eliminated. Of course, it is ridiculous that it is weather news in Russian. But then there's the question: for what did they make and spend money on this product? So out of six products one has already been eliminated. On 31 May one product will remain for the whole summer - it will be news. But journalists are already aware that two more programmes will be eliminated. These are broadcasts Without a obid and a zizņa dug. Will there be anyone else in the place of these programmes? We don't know. However, the question arises: do the citizens of our country and the Russian-speaking country really deserve only six products on "Latvian Television"? Moreover, it is also said that we want to remove broadcasts in Russian from linear television and transport them all on the Internet platform. Are we not going to lose the part we want to act on as a particularly sensitive target audience in this way? And will “LTV7” be the meeting place where Russian-speaking people will see themselves, their Latvia, meet other Latvian-owned cultural diversity? I would therefore really like to thank the new ruling coalition once again, wholeheartedly, for removing concerns and finding funding. I am very happy and hopeful that in future all the opposition proposals will be dealt with as constructively as possible, I withdrew my signature under this draft decision submitted by...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U592	Thank you. The signature has therefore been withdrawn. Name of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Prime Minister Evik Siliņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U593	Hello! Thank you to Mrs Lunova for withdrawing her signature. I am here to assure you that the government is really looking at the opposition proposals, and I would like to inform Members that in 2019... Thus, last week, the Cabinet of Ministers allocated EUR 383 196 to the priority actions of the National Electronic Media Council in 2019, dealing with budgetary issues - the report prepared by the Ministry of Finance on fiscal space-building measures and expenditure on priority measures for the state budget in 2019. He also allocated EUR 191 047 funding for the activities of “Latvijas Radio” and “Latvijas Radio 1” content programmes, EUR 121 005 – for the creation of “Latvijas Television” and lsm.lv content for minorities and English, EUR 71 144 – for Latvian regional and local media for the creation of public unification programmes, national identity and state language position. Thus, the draft law “On the State Budget for 2019” will allow funding for implementation of the national identity, civil society and integration policy plan in 2019. We ask Members to support the budget when it is in the Saeima. ( Internouncing call.) Excuse me? No, it's not at the moment. We are not in favour at the moment. I ask for this proposal to be rejected (Dep. V. Dombrovskis: “How can you reject it?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ but when there will be a budget in the Saeima (Internext.) ... yes, then please support these funds in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U594	Thank you, colleagues. I would like to add that we are not voting on this draft decision. It cannot be put to the vote because one of the applicants has just withdrawn its signature. But, of course, a debate on this is possible. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U595	Hello, colleagues! This last debate gave me cause for concern that those people who have committed themselves to this issue do not fully understand whether they have resolved it or not. I mean, it's like the money's been found. But is the money found on sustainable foundations, or is it another patch... oblivion? It is simply this year that money has been given back, so that next year, again, there is the same problem? Colleagues, I am calling for a follow-up to be given to this and when we look at the budget, for this funding to be put in the base funding and for it to be in the future every year as well... continue, not that it is another patch that someone should ask for, without knowing whether it will or will not end. And that's how it turns out, I'm walking through the bottom at the end, I'm sorry. All this will only be due to an incompetent official or politician. ( Internouncing call.) I'm inviting you to take care of this case. And, as you say, think about how you look.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U596	The name is Sandy Riekstin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U597	Hello, colleagues! I think it is clear to everyone that we will support this as well and that everything there will be put in order. But I like the most today the media experts from the left flank who come and here (interface.) says we don't do anything. Riga City Council in the last three years (Laughter). (See paragraph 4.5 of this Regulation.) It's wasted... You're laughing, but definitely not laughing about... ( Internouncing call.) ... eight million euros. In the last three years! It's just the amount of money you can't find out about each other, so you can't even get information to praise the mayor and WOMAN. And then what did you pay? Four million have gone to feisbuck's accounts, Twitter and instagram. How did you pay out there, mellows! There are also such SIA “Media Serviss”... There's all those newspapers... Subbota, in Latvian - Saturday, Vesti - News for a time, if? And there are those TV programs where you've paid a million... And there's 700 thousand... Subsidiaries of Riga City Council... Get out there, too! Oh, by the way, “Independent” and “What New” have also received money. And there is the Public Relations Department of Riga City Council, which has 11 employees working for one gentleman. There's also one and a half million. Let's go! There are other departments of Riga City Council through which... Segodna - “Today”... “ What’s New”, “Delfi”... And there's another million... I'm not going to talk about basketball... 700 thousand worth... with documentaries... There's more and more. ‘ Gatli EKO’ (Dep. I. Zarins: “What has to do with this issue?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “), “Riga Central Market”, “Riga Houses”, Riga 1st Hospital, Riga Tourism Development Bureau, which only employs SASKANIA personnel and earns no money... And you're still coming here in the triple, tell us something about the media! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Papule: “Please do not insult, but talk about the subject!” ) It was on the subject. ( Internouncing call.) That is the subject most directly because of what we are talking about here today. You're wasting Riga's money - millions - for the media, but here you come and say something pityful! I would recommend once really... Those who were members of Riga City Council... That's what you have one... One, let's see... What? Don't come here with this two-cooled nonstop in every sitting! Testimony in your performance in each sitting! That's enough, maybe once?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ( Internoint.) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U598	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U599	Except for the previous part of the speaker's speech, which did not fully respond to the subject under consideration (Interdependence.) I could say so about myself: I really am a media expert (Interface: “Undoubtedly!” ), because I have both profile education and experience dating back to 1988. And if you, Mr. Riekstins, or Mr. Neighbours, are interested in a subject on the media, you are welcome to be consulted. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “I will not be able to pay!” ) Come on! Its advice will be free of charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U600	I closed the debate. Colleagues! We believe that we have dealt with this issue. We did not vote on the draft decision because one of the notifiers has referred to the signature. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Alda Gobzem from the National Security Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Alda Gobzems from the National Security Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. Decision adopted. And the draft decision on the election of the Saeima member Alda Gobzems to the Commission for Sustainable Development. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Alda Gobzems to the Commission for Sustainable Development! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Decision adopted. The agenda of the sitting has been examined. But, my fellow Members, I have to inform you of the answers to Members' questions scheduled today. The question to Minister of Economics Ralf Nemiro “On replies from the Minister of Economics to questions from Members regarding the information report “On the regulation, monitoring and action of mandatory procurement of electricity and guaranteed charges for installed capacity following the decision of the Saeima of 10 January 2019” discussed at the Cabinet meeting of Ministers of 29 January 2019. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that no oral answer can be given. So today's answers to Members' questions do not take place. Members have asked questions. Members Klementjevs, Orlovs, Ribakovs, Krišāns and Agešins put forward the question “On legislative initiatives to improve the standard of living of pensioners”, which we hand over to the Minister for Welfare for their response. Members Krauze, Lauge, Augulis, Vucanas and Valainis submitted a question “On the provision of services of a sworn lawyer within the framework of business”. The name of the question to the Member Armandas Krauzzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U601	Hello, colleagues! We have prepared the question to the Minister of Justice “On the provision of services of a sworn lawyer within the framework of commercial activities”. We are concerned by the fact that in recent times, the rule of law without compromise is in fact a double standard, especially from the New Conservative Party. Perhaps this cardboard Member and Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice and the whole party are applying double standards. People closer to Parliamentary Secretary may use tax avoidance schemes to avoid paying taxes to the state. And that is why we ask the Minister of Justice to explain and evaluate, within the scope of his competence, whether or not uncompromising guardians of the rule of law are actually using tax avoidance schemes.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U602	Thank you. The question is referred to the Minister of Justice for a reply. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Time for notifications. Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U603	Dear Members of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, I informed you that a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Commission was convened at 12.30 a.m. in the Foreign Affairs Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U604	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U605	Hello! I call on colleagues to the Yellow House to set up a cooperation group together... a group of Members to facilitate cooperation with the Hungarian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U606	Name to Member Arvil Asheraden.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U607	Dear colleagues, In 10 minutes, the Yellow House is intended to facilitate cooperation between the group of Members and the Swedish Parliament. I invite you to participate. Thank you. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U608	Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U609	Not registered: Jānis Ādamsons, Mārtiņš Bondars, Boriss Cilevičs, Anda Čakša, Ilmārs Dūritis, Inese Ikstena, Ivans Klementjevs, Rihards Kozlovskis, Ieva Krapāne, Romanas Naudiņš, Ramona Petraviča, Ivars Puga... ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ )... yes, Arthur Rubiks, Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska, Mārtiņš Staķis, Didzis Šmits, Inese Voika and Evita Zālīte-Gross.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-14-PT13-519-U610	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
