ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take a seat in the Chamber so that we can begin the sitting of the Saeima on 14 March 2019. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” to be included on the agenda of the sittings. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks that the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals be included on the agenda of the meeting (No. (Lp13) for second reading until 20 May 2019.’ Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? Members have reservations. Colleagues, please call us! We will vote for changes to the agenda of the sitting and include the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the draft law on "Amendments to the Packaging Act" (No. (Lp13) for second reading until 20 May 2019.’ Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 55, for - 2 and for - 13. The decision is therefore taken and the draft decision is on the agenda for the sitting. The Prime Minister asks that changes be made to the agenda of the sitting and that it include the draft law “Law on the continuation of administrative territorial reform”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Dear colleagues, On the agenda - reports by the Bureau on the annual national budget submitted or draft amendments thereto and related draft laws. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Budgetary and Financial Management” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Municipal Budgets” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as to the State Administration and Municipal Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible as well as the Legal Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Gambling and Gaming” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Road Use Fees” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law of the Latvian Environmental Protection Fund” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Karina Sprūde, Member, has applied to speak about” ( Insight: ‘ Against! ’) ) I apologise against Ms Karina Sprūde, who has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U2	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! By getting acquainted with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”, the way in which the Saeima led it to the vote created a real surprise for me. I am surprised by the inflationary way in which additional revenue is sought in the budget. It is most ironic in all this that the reduction of the shadow economy is once again at the expense of the most vulnerable part of society. Of course, we need to challenge... And limiting it is the easiest way... But is that... should it be an end in itself? With a very pragmatic approach to this issue, will the work actually invested bear the planned results? Will it not be that once again the price of one euro will be higher than the benefit? Large amounts of small amounts which will require officials' cavalry for administration. Latvia is a special place and a special country. The interests of the big players are always being defended, but the people who work in good faith and earn their living are being forced to cheat, they are being defrauded. Once again we focus on minor things, but we allow big players to live comfortable within the law. Should entrepreneurs think about how to legally optimise the tax burden, or should they still deal with their direct obligation to produce new goods and services? If entrepreneurs were to focus on the second, then there would be no need for absurd restrictions... which, after all, does not lead to the desired result - the well-being of the whole of society. In my opinion, there is little connection with the shadow economy, but there is a strong banking lobby. In each bid, an additional commission is required. It is clear that the banks have forgotten that there is no public authority, but there are commercial companies whose main activity is to participate in the financial markets in which they earn money from their customers. Banks should be happy that their services are used by the company for its own convenience and that they can use client money to operate in financial markets. But obviously, as everything with us in Latvia - why make an effort and risk, if you can simply charge a commission from every citizen of Latvia for transfers that exceed a certain amount of money, for the cost of money and sometimes for its contribution. The Ministry of Finance plans to increase income from these activities. They say the wise one learns from his mistakes, but the fool doesn't learn at all. There is already a cash limit in Latvia - 7200 euros, although elsewhere in Europe it is 10 thousand euros... We are, of course, first-ranking in everything, including the fact that we ourselves create laws that force even those who do not want to, but otherwise it is impossible to exist. I am not convinced that such restrictions will achieve the desired objective; rather, the forecast of revenue is too optimistic. Latvians are hardened and will not be unduly restricted for the first time. The most protagonists have already left. The strongest ones are left, but every branch is once broken when it's glued too much. Therefore, I ask every Member to stop testing the patience of Latvian citizens, start focusing on the big tax debtors and improve the legislation that restricts offshores (Interface: “Time!” ) and the interests of other big players. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U3	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 45, for - 5, for - 16. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the National Administration and Municipal Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. ‘ Against” Ms Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Member, has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U4	Good morning, Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Minister too! In general, it should be said that it is even a normal budget for the continuation of the work of the old government, but it is a catastrophic budget from the point of view of fulfilling the promises of the new government and the new political forces. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. G. Eglytis: “Uau!” ) There is nothing in it! Among other things, the increase in the salaries of educators, which must be acknowledged, was indeed promised by the Minister of Unity Kārlis Šadurskis. I think he trusts that the new head of government, Mr Kariņš, from the same political power, together with the Minister of Finance, will also resolve this issue from the same political strength. Recently, a week ago, I read the opinion of Mrs Šuplinska, the Minister for Education and Science: the remuneration of educators is our priority, and it will be raised from 1 January 2020. And then the question is: has Mrs Šuplinska read this bill, which she has prepared and submitted to the government? This implies that the next increase is likely to be only from 1 September 2020 at lower rates. Is Mrs Šuplinsk right in words or in written text? This is a simple question to which certain JCPs' colleagues have to answer. ( Internouncing call.) The fact that there is no money, or there are any other arguments, is also, I would say, a lead excuse powder, because this year's revenue is about 450 million more than it was last year. Increasing the salaries of educators this year does not require much money - EUR 9.3 million. And if we take into account the reverse effect of taxes, then even much less - a little more than EUR five million. And there are the resources that Liszda itself has pointed out, but I still understand that Mr Kariņš has not received the answer, whether the government is going to use these funds. Now... The government has just examined the VAT package, where it can be seen that there is a fiscal effect: 800 thousand - this year, a few million - next year. Why is this law not in the budget package? One specific resource is not enough, but a specific resource to ensure teachers' salaries. I'd rather look like... maybe even after such a political figure... I must say that the old political forces - Unity, I do not know, the National Union - are showing the location of the UKP. And maybe it's also in the budget process... But it's a pity that this is currently being done at the expense of teachers' salaries. The argument that this is only a technical budget also does not withstand criticism. If there is a new government approved by the voter's mandate, then there is no concept of a "technical budget". It is a political budget that demonstrates both the political desire and practical possibilities and the ability to deliver on the promises. I call on the government to take this draft law back and put it in order, to anticipate that salaries for educators are increased from 1 September this year, and then see it together with the budget law. Otherwise, there is the idea that you have all come up in a procrust bed - someone has stretched out, someone has cut their feet to keep the stability of this government. There is such a paradox that probably its great instability is also a guarantee of stability, but now at least one of the promises that you started in the elections and won in them should be fulfilled. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U5	Mr Aldis Adamovičs has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U6	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima, colleagues! A little bit about statistics. And I would also like to call for support for the referral of this draft law to the commissions. Last year... Thank you very much to the previous government for finding funds to raise teachers' salaries for four months from September 2018 - from EUR 680 per rate to 710; this required about seven million. And now I'm surprised by both the reflections of the former Minister of Finance and the previous Prime Minister... When you draw up this year's draft budget... if at 450 million revenues... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “You create a budget!” ) If, on top of this year's 450 million additional revenue, nine million could not be found in the basic budget, then I am very surprised. Because indeed last year too... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “Aldi, you are a government! You are creating a budget!” ) For indeed also last year, Mr Shadursky, at the initiative of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, was proposed in September (Dep. D. Interdependence of Reizniece-Ozola.) In the budget, he sought finance for wage increases. So, colleagues, this year, too, the amount for last year's increase has been included in the general budget... nine months... And let's see... If there's a chance, then let's look for it. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U7	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 50, for - 31, for - 1. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the State Budget for 2019” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be handed over to all commissions, stating that the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? ( The utterances: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “On the State Budget for 2019” to all commissions, stating that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission is the committee responsible. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 51, for - 7 and for - 16. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. Next we continue with the draft laws submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On International Treaties of the Republic of Latvia” presented by the Foreign Affairs Commission be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Civil Procedure” submitted by Member Gobzema, Liepāja, Sprūde, Smita and Stepanenko be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U8	Good morning, people's servants! As long as children are clearly a priority in our country, there will also be no development in our country. The proposed amendment to the Civil Procedure Act addresses a very simple, logical issue. The issue of irreconcilability of recovery in relation to child-friendly maintenance. Maintenance is provided for children, not for banks and other elderly creditors. According to Article 6 of the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child, children's rights are priorities. They shall take precedence over the rights of banks; they shall prevail over the rights of any other creditor. Children are creditors in respect of the maintenance provided to them, therefore these maintenance facilities should be granted to children in full. I really call on Parliament and I sincerely ask you to support this proposal because it is in the interests of all children of Latvia... and specifically for the benefit of children living in separated families and living in recovered maintenance, who, unfortunately, cannot be provided by persons living with their children. It is a proposal that affects the future of our country and the future of our children. It is not logical, therefore, to understand the current situation that it is possible to withdraw money from maintenance for children for the benefit of banks or other adults. All money should be provided for children's better living conditions - for health care, education, and simply for children to eat and live properly. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U9	Ms Juta Strīķe, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U10	This proposal and the idea are, by their very nature, the right one. But Gobzems, as an applicant and as a lawyer, should know that child support, which is larger than the number specified by the Cabinet of Ministers, can be determined not only by a court decision, but also by a notary act. If we do not mention a notarial act here, then in fact we urge all families to separate their disputes from the courts. Instead of agreeing, we will increase both the scope of the proceedings and the settlement of disputes in the courts. Of course, it would be quite simple to put in a notary act that should be done by the applicant, but this, in turn, raises another problem that all kinds of machinations can be done in a notary order. Knowing that this is a good proposal, I allow there to be other roads too... e.g. increase the minimum child support defined by the Cabinet of Ministers. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “It could be discussed by the Commission!” ) I therefore call on the draft law to address the Ministry of Justice and to come up with a way that will be legally correct, accurate and correct. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “You are imagining ways to not support the opposition proposals!” ) The following (Interfaces.) ... This is simply not acceptable under such a legal option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U11	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to Civil Procedure Law” to the Legal Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 32, for - 46, for - 2. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Holidays, Remembrances and Markable Days” be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on the Continuation of Administrative Territorial Reform” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U12	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, This is our opportunity and necessity. Necessity, the more than 80 percent of municipalities in Latvia today cannot support themselves and receive grants. Half of the municipalities have no idea about economic development and the promotion of the business environment for entrepreneurs to enter them. Less than half of the municipalities are able to employ 40 percent of their working population. Even fewer municipalities are capable of implementing projects with a million and more... or, more precisely, to invest in projects. And in less than 40 municipalities there is a situation where two classes, or parallel classes, cannot be opened at secondary school because there are no children. This reform is necessary. We, Parliament, have to give the Cabinet of Ministers a task to come with a clear vision, with clear proposals to realise this opportunity (an opportunity to do work that has not been done by previous parliaments), - to improve the quality of life for our people and to create administrative units that are able to live in this country in the 21st century. Colleagues, let us not miss this opportunity because it is impossible to avoid the future! I call for this draft law to be passed on to the Commission and call on us not to be afraid of the challenges that we will have when we examine this draft law - and not only this draft law, but also this reform as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U13	Mr. Viktors Valainis has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U14	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! It's about this bill. This draft law is nothing more than the mandate of the Saeima to the government - to design and propose administrative territorial reform. If we look at the justification included in this bill, then we see that the justification, as Mr Bondara from the troupe said, is very general to this mandate. And what I wanted to see - which are then the specific municipalities that do not comply with the requirements of this draft law, which are the municipalities that... is the problem, but most importantly, at least understand the approximate direction in which the government intends to work. There are only general phrases, and that is the greatest weakness of this draft law. General statistics, but we have 119 municipalities. Giving the government a mandate to work would have been much better if we knew about each particular municipality. This is a very big reform, however, and it is worth sinking a little more than general statistics, looking at each administrative unit, each municipality in particular - what then do we expect of it? What do we expect from Mazsalaca, will the only criterion in Mazsalaca be only the population, or will there be any other criteria? What's wrong at the moment? At the moment, we say that we are going to repair, improve, but before the repair we are not saying what the repair will be, and we are not saying anything that has not really been in order. Therefore, in my opinion, this draft law is not well-balanced, absolutely, it is too general, and I very much hope that, while working further on the Commission, at least more specific information... I have no doubt that the Minister has this information, and I do not doubt that the Minister and the Ministry will be able to present Members to the Commission, but it would have been better if all of this had already been included in the basic law and annotated. So that I call for this piece of legislation not to be supported, but I very much hope that, in the course of its development, we will hear these questions and answers even more so that you, Members, too, give the government a mandate to work, to mark what you expect from the government, because that is not a simple question! At least be approximate clarity, not, well, there: work, then you will see! I call for no support at this point and I hope for the additions to the bill so that it can be examined in the course of the next evaluation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U15	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Law on Continuation of Administrative Territorial Reform” to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 54, for - no, for - 25. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On own-initiative proposals submitted. The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications has submitted its own proposal – the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 226 Latvian citizens on the prohibition of food packaging containing Bisphenol A”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. On the granting of leave. For unpaid leave granted to Ms Inese Lībins-Egner from 11 to 14 March this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere to grant unpaid leave from 11 to 14 March this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. On 13 and 14 March this year, Mr Janis Dūklavs was granted unpaid leave. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Jānis Dūklavs requesting unpaid leave on 13 and 14 March of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For granting unpaid leave to a Member Ilmars Dūritis on 18 and 19 March this year. Colleagues! We have to vote. Please call me! We will be voting for the granting of unpaid leave to the Member Ilmars Dūritis on 18 and 19 March this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Secret”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U16	Hello, colleagues! Six proposals were submitted to the draft law “Amendment to the law “On State Secret””. 1. is a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U17	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U18	2. is a proposal from the Ministry of Defence. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U19	Minister of Defence - Minister! - application. The defence minister's proposal, which was not supported. I heard Members want to vote? ( Internouncing call.) Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal by Minister of Defence Pabrika! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U20	3. - Alda Gobzem's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U21	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U22	Permission to the state's secret – in Latvia it is, in fact, a tolerance to political mafia. And this is demonstrated by the fact that our Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš has received permission for state secret when he has had transactions with high officials of Moscow mayors in the sale of real estate - the building of the former cinema “Pionieris” in Riga, Skolas iela 2. The Constitutional Protection Office has not verified such fact at all (Dep. L. Ozola: “How do you know?” ), despite the fact that the buyer of the transaction was a person whose official's declaration shows a round zero. The transaction was executed through offshores in Cyprus, the British Virgin Islands, Panama. And he has a tolerance! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “You don’t!” ) The Law on State secrecy states that the issue of granting a tolerance should be considered before the beginning of his duties. Currently, as far as is known, there are several ministers in the Cabinet who do not have a tolerance to state secret. At a time when we have to implement the Moneyval recommendations, there is no tolerance for the Minister of the Interior who, as far as we know, is responsible for introducing the Moneyval recommendations. As far as is known, other ministers also have no tolerance to national secrecy. Most likely, it is not the fault of these ministers, but the fault of the Bureau of Constitutional Protection that the statutory obligation to examine the matter until the beginning of the obligations provided for by the Law “On State Secret” has not been fulfilled. The specific proposal requires the Constitutional Protection Bureau to examine everything related to allowances until the beginning of the parliamentary office, i.e. until a solemn promise is made, so that no one, especially the old political elite of Unity, Artus Kaimiņš (Dep. A. Neighbours: “You will never have any tolerance! Can you understand that? Never!” ) could not be used for relevant political manipulations. What I want to say is that, despite the fact that, today, in today's circumstances, Artuss Kaimiņš is convinced that the old Unity, whose puppet he has long been, will be in power forever, this situation will change. It will change for the reason that people from all over the world, which is developed and democratic, do not have the country's secret of tolerance. It is due to them automatically because the highest is the power of the people, not Mr. Maizins or the Constitutional Protection Bureau. The President of the United States has no tolerance to the country's secret because he has been elected by a nation. There are also Estonia. There are also France or Germany or any other developed country in the world. In our country, this issue is being used as a manipulative tool against new political forces and against persons who do not pass their voters, as Artus Kaimiņš has done. In our country, this system is being used against those who have a spine, not those who are political puppets in the hands of Meroni, sitting in the locks “Arena Riga” together with the gooses and yet they don’t know anything. This system implies that the delegation given by the people is a priority and essential one and cannot be called into question by anyone. Because it is absurd that the tolerance must go even to the President of Latvia, who has been legally elected, is shameful for us on paper as if in a democratic system. That is why the specific proposal has been tabled, and I ask for its support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U23	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U24	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! Basically, very briefly. Before we change something in the law on state secret, we should do one another's thing: to get answers from those who give them, to hear the answers here in the Saeima. How is it possible that Czech agent Pugulis has received the highest tolerance for state secret and thus became the Prime Minister of the Republic of Latvia? Until we give an answer to this question... the law and the idea of state secrecy have been discredited as hard as possible to discredit. Because there's a question: why don't we forgive it if we give it to Czech agents? I don't particularly hate Ivar Godman here because I don't know the circumstances, but I know he's in the box. We all see that. And the biggest problem is that we cannot look at his case, his case is in Moscow, just like the things of many other agents. And what is in fact there is now known by the special services of Russia, but we do not know. To this question, I think we need to get an answer: how could this happen? Otherwise we can change what we want, but the law and idea are currently discredited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U25	Name to Member Ainars Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U26	Colleagues! Often other countries are called upon in discussions on the granting of national secrecy. How many came out from the sitting until today to look at our neighbour's laws... In English, the Lithuanian Law on State Secrets and Professional Secrets has been translated, with Article 15, “conditions for processing and getting acquainted with classified information”, third paragraph quite clearly... and it's true. The post of President, Speaker of the Seimas and Prime Minister gives them the right to access, use and automatically access classified information. Sequence? In 2004, the procedure for his annulment was initiated and completed against the Lithuanian President, Paksas. One of the reasons for the cancellation was that Paks has disclosed the state secret to his campaign sponsor, the helicopter manufacturer Borisov. Of course, this can be done, but the example of Lithuania shows this well. Article 15, fourth paragraph Members of the Seimas and members of municipal councils may consult information classified as limited if it is necessary for the performance of their duties. Also now in Latvia... in all our commissions, if one of the institutions comes and gives Members the opportunity to consult documents which are limited to their availability or service, this shall be done against the signature at a closed meeting of the committee. And that's what happens in Lithuania. But also in Lithuania, all Members need a tolerance and a test. Estonia, unfortunately, is not available for translation. But what I know quite clearly, because once I led the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, is the condition that they changed after the spy scandals... That their National Security Commission... Members working in this commission need not a first-level (as in Latvia) allowance issued by security services, but a NATO-level allowance. By the way, I believe that perhaps we too... if we review something in this law, it is necessary to provide that the members of the National Security Commission need to be allowed exactly to do so at NATO level. So these are just examples of two neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U27	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U28	I would like to say to the House that three Members voted in favour of this proposal within the Commission and two voted against, the others abstained. Thus, in fact, by a majority, this proposal was supported by the Commission. The other thing I want to say. The Latvian system, granting permission to state secret, is absurd in its very foundations, because we have a Prime Minister who is in Czech bags and has probably been a Czech agent. We have a Prime Minister who after Crimea's occupation... Which family, after the occupation of Crimea, sells its own "Pionier" movie houses... bye, of course... Where the real beneficiaries in the public media say that the occupation of Crimea is welcome that there was no annexation. I understand that in today's circumstances, Artus Neimins can no longer talk about old or new unity. It was prohibited by Gobiņš, who is known to Meroni, because such things must be reconciled in the bears of the hall “Arena Riga”. But someone needs to talk about it publicly. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Speak!” ) And someone has to speak publicly that in our country the admission is given not to the secret of the country, but to the political mafia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U29	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U30	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that in the Commission this proposal by Alda Gobzem was debated and was not supported, including... for the reason that the Office of Constitutional Protection would not have sufficient resources to carry out this verification until a solemn promise is given. What I would like to add to what Mr Gobzem said. Mr. Gobzem, you have a little contradiction with yourself (Dep. A. Neighbours: “It’s normal!” As regards the fact that these tolerances should be given automatically, you nevertheless put forward a proposal to carry out such a check. I call for the future, however, to be consistent... If you are in favour of automatic tolerances, then I also call for a proposal to be made. On behalf of the Commission, I therefore call for this proposal from Alda Gobzem not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U31	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Member Gobzem's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 22, for - 50, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U32	4. There is also a proposal from Member Alda Gobzem. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U33	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U34	The proposal provides that permission to Latvian state secret may only be granted to a citizen of Latvia and not to a double citizen. The meaning of this proposal is a matter of self-esteem. The purpose of this proposal is to exclude a potential conflict of interest, because there cannot be a situation where a person with dual citizenship is granted admission to the secret of our country. Because it is impossible to know what responsibilities this person with dual citizenship has for another country. Our country's Prime Minister, Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš, has double citizenship and is afraid to give up his dual citizenship because he obviously does not believe in the future of our country. Obviously, he does not believe in our country's pension system; apparently, he does not believe in our country's social security system if he already needs dual citizenship. At the moment, we do not know which country is in the interest of Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš - in the interests of our country or in the interests of any other country. This is pointed out by Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš' family transaction in relation to the building of the former cinema Pioneer with the Russian Federation (Interface: The Proposal Speaks!) ) for residents through offshore branches. In this particular case, what I would like to say is that in the law on state secrecy, you have to make changes, as is the case in many developed countries and in many countries that respect their values, if you want to be a public official, you have to give up citizenship of another country. It is inconceivable that the Israeli Prime Minister could have dual citizenship. It is inconceivable that the President of the United States of America should have dual citizenship. And these countries in the world respect. Do we respect Latvia and respect the fact that we have no self-esteem and allow us to be in power to be a person who does not believe in the future of our country? Which, in fact, will not have any responsibility for the future of our country, because this person will be able to go out in peace to enjoy his or her old age in the social security provided for by the citizenship of another country. I understand that after me, Artuss Neimanis will climb to defend Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš, because he is told by Meroni, and he is told by Gobiņš, with whom he sits together in “Arena Riga”. ( Intercretion: “Love! ” ) I understand that this proposal will not be supported by a coalition, because our coalition obviously has no confidence in our country. The meaning of the proposal is quite simple. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Well, what?” ) Not to deprive Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš of his permission to the state secret, but to force him to renounce his dual citizenship and to show that he believes in our country that he believes in Latvia that he believes in the Latvian pension system, that he believes in the salaries of Latvian teachers that he believes in the future of Latvia. In this particular case, this proposal does not apply only to Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš, but to anyone who wants to get to power in Latvia. She must be only a citizen of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U35	I closed the debate. What should be explained on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U36	I would like to say that this issue was debated in the Commission and was not supported. I would also like to add (Interface: Do not!) ), that this issue is not as simple as Mr Gobzem is doing at the moment, because (Interest call: “Apply in the debate and then say it out!” ) Double citizenship can be for people from different countries (Interface: "For the Commission!" ), including from our strategic partners. And this issue could be discussed more widely, but not in an urgent legislative procedure. I therefore call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U37	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Member Gobzem's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 28, against - 46, abstaining - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U38	5. - a proposal from the Minister of Defence. There is no support in the Commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Adamson: “No vote!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U39	Members want to vote. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “E, what's going on?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ Please... ( across the line: “There is no vote! ”) ) Not put to the vote?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U40	Yeah... They are interrelated - proposals 5 and 6. I invite you to support the bill...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U41	Or... So Members of this proposal...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U42	There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U43	There is no support in the Commission. Members want to debate, and the debate is possible. The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U44	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, As Parliament did not support proposal 2... Proposals 5 and 6 are related and therefore proposals 5 and 6 cannot be put to the vote. But what surprises me? That's not in the commission, no... During this week it did not have any debate about why, in general, this draft law appeared, why the president of the CEC needs a tolerance to national secrecy... associated with it. Unfortunately, I have not received any answer to this question either. All other proposals. Unfortunately, they were not related to nature and meaning... And I call on colleagues to follow the Rule of Procedure, which sets out what proposals are being discussed at second and third readings - that conceptual proposals in the final readings of draft laws (in particular the final readings of urgent draft laws!) may not be submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U45	I closed the debate. Therefore, Proposals 5 and 6 cannot be put to the vote. This is also the opinion of the Legal Office.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U46	There are no more proposals. I call for support to be given to this draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U47	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Secret”” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, 22, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Dear colleagues, Proposals have been submitted for changes to the agenda of the sitting. Members Reizniece-Ozola, Valainis, Augulis, Kučinskis, Daugė, Čakša and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Law on the Release of Natural Persons from Debt”. ‘ “A Member, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U48	Colleagues! I call for support for the inclusion of this new draft law on the agenda for today's sitting and for it to be passed on to the Commission so that we can start working with it. It is a new bill, which is prepared after a discussion (under the leadership of the then Prime Minister) on responsible lending took place at the end of last year. That was a discussion in the context of quick credit, and many things were resolved, many good proposals were put forward and adopted in the Saeima, restricting irresponsible so-called quick credit. But one housework for the Ministry of Justice remained - to solve the situation that Latvia currently has a very large number of residents, who have already become hostages of quick credit and are often unable to repay them, so it is also a mistake to become shadow economic actors. Very many entrepreneurs, especially in the regions, say that they are approached by employees, potential employees, and even call for wages to be paid in the envelope because they fear that, if official income emerges, the bailiffs will be present immediately and they will try to recover these funds. It is also a problem for many young people who have less financial skills and who have taken loans because of their youthlessness, are unable to repay them, and are thus unable to start a normal life. According to the Latvian Financial Industry Association, Latvia currently has a very large number of residents with debt. There are some 35 000 people with debt between two and five thousand euros. This draft law provides for a procedure in which people who cannot repay their debts could get rid of their debt in accelerated insolvency proceedings. This would apply in cases where the debtor has minimum wages or less and this amount of debt does not exceed EUR 5000 but exceeds EUR 2000. There are a number of issues, of course, which should still be discussed during the legislative process, say whether there should be an obligation to attend financial practice courses. At first it was the idea of the Ministry of Justice. The court does not, however, indicate where and how much such a course can be visited, to what extent this person should pay for the public service by means of insolvency proceedings. It seems to me that that sum should be proportionate so that the person can bear it, too, by nature. Several other conceptual cases, but basically this is a draft law prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance, in consultation with the Financial Sector Association, with the Association of Latvian Creditors and in the form of small corrections by Members in favour of citizens. I think this would be one very good thing that we could do. This could not have been the case if, as politicians, we had been sufficiently responsible in previous years and limited irresponsible lending. Since we have made many mistakes, I believe that this is an indispensable piece of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U49	Do Members object to the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of the sitting? And the objections. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law “Law on the Release of Natural Persons from Debt” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 31, against - 47, refraining from - 1. Draft legislation is not on the agenda of the sitting. The Foreign Affairs Commission asks the draft law drafted by the Commission “Amendment to the Law “On International Treaties of the Republic of Latvia”” to be placed on the agenda of the Saeima sitting for consideration at first reading without re-examination by the Foreign Affairs Commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Puga, Pucens, Vitenbergs, Kursīte, Blumbergs, Gaidāns and others are asking for a draft decision to be included on the agenda of the sitting “On the withdrawal of Member Kaspars Girgens from the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this draft decision on the agenda of the sitting? There is no objection. The draft decision shall be placed on the agenda of the sitting. Members Pug, Pucens, Wittenberg, Kursīte, Blumberg, Geidāns and others are asking for a draft decision on the election of Mr Kaspars's Director to the Foreign Affairs Commission to be on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Police”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Aldis Blumbergs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U50	President-in-Office. Dear colleagues, On 5 March, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption addressed the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Police”. Three proposals were received before the third reading. 1. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Sanda Girgen. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U51	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U52	2. - also a proposal from the Minister for the Interior, Sand Ģürgen, supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U53	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U54	And 3. - the proposal from the Minister for the Interior, Sanda Girgen, supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U55	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U56	I call for support to be given to this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U57	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Police” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law on arms movement law, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ainars Latkovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U58	Colleagues! 1. is the proposal of the Minister of the Interior, Ģirgen. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U59	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U60	2. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U61	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U62	3. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U63	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U64	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U65	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U66	5. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U67	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U68	6. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U69	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U70	7. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U71	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U72	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U73	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U74	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U75	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U76	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U77	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U78	11. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U79	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U80	12. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U81	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U82	13. - the proposal by Member Reizniece-Ozola. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U83	Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin. Are Members opposed to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U84	Dear colleagues, I call on the Saeima to reassess the norms of the second reading of the draft law on extending the hunter's circle with the children themselves. Issues affecting children, i.e. those not yet under the age of 18, need to be examined with particular care by the legislator. This amendment has to be seen systemically, in conjunction with other regulatory acts. Under the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, any person under the age of 18 is considered to be a child in international law. Such a legal criterion is also used in Latvia - the Law on the Protection of Children's Rights. Moreover, the Law on Children’s Rights provides that the child, as a physically and intellectually immature person, needs special protection and care. In court practice, for example, in the judgement of the Administrative Regional Court of December 4, 2014, it has been recognised that the child has not reached their level of understanding (Sitting Manager knocks down with hammer.) procedures and mechanisms for dealing with adulthood and may not be equipped with psychological persistence and ability to react in unexpected, dangerous situations such as those of an adult. The proposal on whether children in Latvia should be allowed to use weapons should be very carefully weighed and based on the views of specialists from various fields and experts. Importantly, on February 19th, during the meeting of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption, the State Police Officer Lauris Arējs presented shocking data. For various serious violations (alcohol consumption and other reasons) 321 hunter in Latvia has lost the right to keep weapons. The Ombudsman of the Republic of Latvia has indicated that the norm included in the draft law does not comply with the standards of protection of children's rights. In particular, the Ombudsman indicated that there was a lack of an in-depth assessment of the impact of this proposal on the minor in the annex to the bill. In the Ombudsman’s assessment, such practices are neither in line with the principle of good governance nor with good lawmaking. It is not in the best interest of Latvian children to allow children to use hunting weapons. In turn, the association “Latvian Association of School Psychologists” draws attention to at least two significant risks. First, at the age of a teenager, the limbic system of the brain, which is responsible for emotions, has developed ahead of the prefrontal region, which is responsible for social behaviour, personality manifestations, complex cognitive behaviour and decision making. This means that adolescents, especially 16-year-old adolescents, are at risk because the part of the brain responsible for decision-making is not objectively mature. And the second problem pointed out by school psychologists is that, as the availability of weapons in society increases, the number of deaths due to the use of weapons increases - accidents, suicides and so on. It must be understood that school psychologists are professionals who work directly with this age group on a daily basis and in practice deal with different situations in schools and families. Also a number of other specialists in paediatric, psychiatric, neurology, drugology and family medicine do not support the proposal to grant the right to handle a firearm to persons under the age of 18, drawing attention to the fact that the use of firearms requires mental maturity and responsibility, which may not be due to mature mental processes. The State Audit Office, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Welfare do not support further progress of the abovementioned legal provision. Several other organizations - the Foundation Centre Dardede, the Association Slanes, the Society Centre for Human Rights of Latvia, the Society Centre MARTA and the Association Latvian Landscapes – have received objections regarding the non-compliance of such a norm with the principles of protection of children’s rights. This idea is opposed by a number of industry professionals and experts who understand how and in what way the killing of an animal can affect the mental health of children. In order to protect children’s health, including mental health, a number of laws impose proportionate restrictions. These include, for example, the ban on the purchase of tobacco products and alcoholic beverages, and no one can doubt that such prohibitions are justified. It should also be noted that the number of violent crimes in the world is increasing, including through the use of firearms. Such crimes are also committed by sixteen-year-old children, but thanks to God, at least not in Latvia. It should be borne in mind that other Baltic countries do not make such major changes to their legislation and do not intend to do so. We are all very well aware that there are regular hunting accidents, so 16 years of age in this respect are not in favour either of the child's right to full development or of safety or of public need. The fact that the legislator does not take into account significant reservations of the Ombudsman, ministries and other institutions about the negative impact of the proposal on the minor does not very much follow the legislative practice. The case-law of the Constitutional Court shows that this court, when seeing that the draft law has not been adopted in the proper manner, can declare it incompatible with the Satversme. I therefore call for support for proposals 13, 14 and 15. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U85	The name to Anda Chakša.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U86	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! We are the legislator, and our task is to see a broad context, not just a narrow look at a very small group of people who want to put weapons in their children's hands. And even though I have to agree right away that the existing corrections are to some extent already improving the situation... But returning to what was discussed last time that we had more normal and timeless women, I heard from one of these less normal women: “You can accept this law, as you wish, and I will not give your child a weapon.” ( The box “Do Not Give! ”) ) We can look at this situation in various ways, but unfortunately it is scientifically proven that teens mature at the age of 28. ( Milestones.) And we, as legislator, have to take this context into account. Yes, there are 45-50 young people who have grown up with nature, have already been hunting early and will probably not have problems with this situation. But have we, the legislator, considered all possible risks to others... Is that so? What can happen to other young people who have not grown up with nature who have not regularly gone to the forest with their father and looked at it, but who will now be able to get there and get to the gun under this law? We don't know their reactions. Please approach this issue with care precisely because we are the legislator. Our task is to see a broad context, not just a narrow, very small group of lobbying interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U87	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U88	Dear colleagues, For my part, I would also continue to ask for this provision to be excluded, which would allow the use of weapons for hunting for 16-year-olds under parental supervision. In addition to all the arguments that have already been set out very extensively in the previous sittings of the Saeima, and also to those we have heard today, I would like to mention two more themes. One thing. The question was asked at the Commission's sitting: then, what are we different or worse than some Scandinavian countries, for example, where such a regulation has been in force for several years now? I would like to say that we are not worse, but different, because we still have quite a lot of disobedience to the law. This is evidenced by even the very frequent penalties received for road traffic offences and speeding. And it is assumed that even if there are any rules of the game, there is likely to be such a sporting interest sometimes to violate them. I think this is also reflected in what Mr Agešina said: statistics on the extremely large number of people who have lost their right to carry a weapon due to various violations. The other thing. Quality of the debate. At the Commission's sitting on this issue, I would say that there was a re-rupture of couples asking rhetoric: "Are there any scientific research? Give me some research that says that if you really give your young man the opportunity to use a hunting weapon, he will have some psychological shock!” Forgot the other half of the medal that there were no studies on the opposite effect either. On the contrary, there is an expert opinion... We have just heard Mrs Čakša comment that there are studies when a young person's mind really matures. A letter from school psychologists has also been received, stating that a 16-year-old youth is still in the development phase of the brain development process. Consequently, its desire to make this decision with the clappers on the eyes is surprising and I think the quality of the discussions has not improved. I therefore call for support to be given to my proposal, as well as to some others, although it is true that the Commission's current proposal is already much more qualitative and at least addresses the concerns which were not discussed at all and which were expressed by the State Police representative, because the regulation adopted at second reading did not involve responsibility for the misuse of the weapon or any restriction on this regulation; it provided that their weapon could be used in old age with Mom standing next to her. I call on you to support this and some further proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U89	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U90	Dear President, Honourable Members! Maybe someone's gonna see... If you can't, I'll show you, you can come... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Kirštein shows an image on the tablet.) It is an illustration of Latvian classics – graphic artist Kārlis Krauzes for the book “Children of Staburaga”. There is pictured (Interim from the fraction: “To this side, please!” ) A hunter who is himself a little less than a bis hanging in his shoulder with a shot bunny. For, as you remember, he was the son of a gardener, and those bunny were roasted with apples. I understand that we have a problem in schools. Of course, we are not allowed to discriminate, but unfortunately there is extremely serious discrimination between men. It seems to me that there are currently fewer than 10 percent of men in schools and, as a result, there is an extremely strong feminisation of young men. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Ribena’s intermediate call.) I would like to remind you of one thing. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Reindeer: ‘... not be required to shoot animals!’ ) In the 1960s the Hunting Act allowed... It was in force for two years... The hunter was 16 years of age, and unlike this proposal, he was able to carry a gun on his own if he had previously proved himself to be an engine. And do you know why this law was repealed? Because the Committee on State Security concluded that there are young patriots and next partisans. And it was dangerous for Soviet power. I told you last time that I was extremely successful in releasing and defeating the Stučka army, because there were a lot of former students, as well as students of the Turbata corporations who were well hunters, they were oriented in the forest, they were focused in the battle conditions, but the Chinese and steppe people who had been buried for Latvians in the Stučka army did not have this gift. They had a large number of deaths, and their army was destroyed. So let us think about it, and perhaps we should not start by supporting these three proposals. Thank you. And I invite you to get acquainted with Latvian classic literature. ‘ Children of Staburaga, author - Valdis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U91	The name is Mr. Janis Wittenberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U92	Hello, colleagues! Don't leave the feeling that everything has been heard somewhere, that once has already happened, and it seemed like we had discussed it. But today the second series has begun with new findings. I was a little shocked by the fact that a teenager is growing up to 28 years, so now in the Latvian army all are teenagers, adults... Well, our army is made up of children. There are also some teenagers who may not be able to do so. ( Interface: “That’s what it is! ” ) Yes, yes. And it was also said that the interests of a small group are represented. Hunters are not a small group. There are more than 20,000 registered hunters, plus engines and their families. It seems to me that it is wrong to call such a group of people small, and it is also taking over the feeling that this is a one-way movement, that all opinions are expressed and lobbying, with the exception of the organisations representing hunters. I believe that hunters should be supported, and I hope that in future, hunter traditions in Latvia will not die. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U93	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis. Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U94	Thank you. Highly honored Saeima Presidium! President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Very honourable Members! Dear colleagues and honourable listeners who are listening to this sitting of the Saeima! The progress of this draft law has really led to a great deal of public debate, which has been expressed by experts and people known to the public. It is difficult for me to remember another case where the expert opinion would have been so united. I think of experts who can really judge what happens to a person at a certain age stage and what is his emotional... And the rest... status. Not so much about hunting techniques and various types of weapons, which I do not doubt, hunters are certainly experts. But I mean different experts, such as psychologists, psychotherapists, doctors and other social and professional groups. The initiators of these amendments are, as we know, a couple of elite hunters' organisations, which are obviously very capable of achieving a lobby in the Saeima. And I would also like to say that the young politicians are criticising Members of the previous Saeima for not listening to society and acting as they say: dogs rej, but the convoy goes further. Unfortunately, I have to conclude that the process of progress of this draft law, without listening to experts' views, and ignores the fact that we continue to ignore the opinion of society in this Saeima, too. I do not want to believe that this is so, and I believe in young colleagues that this Parliament has indeed been substantially renewed and that we will still be able to stop as part of the convoy and listen. Overall, 20 or perhaps even more organisations or experts have expressed a negative attitude towards these planned amendments to allow the use of a weapon in hunting at the age of 16. These are: Lawyer of the Republic of Latvia, Ministry of Welfare, Ministry of Health, State Audit Office, Latvian Medical Society, five non-governmental organizations and socialntropologists of the University of Latvia, Foundation “Centre Dardede”, Association “Slanes”, Society “Centre MARTA”, Latvian Centre for Human Rights, Association “Latvijas landscapes”, Socialtropologist of the University of Latvia Ilze Mileiko, Arturs Pokšāns, shelter “Centre of Animals”, Association of School Psychologists of Latvia. Some individuals have also sent their letters. Experts have expressed their views in the media, for example, the legal expert of the University of Latvia Ilma Čepāne - “Latvian Radio”; biologist Jānis Ozoliņš of the Scientific Institute “Silava” – in his article “SestDiena”. The emeritus professor Židrīte Lasmane also gave her opinion in a special working group set up by the Latvian Association of Physic Psychotherapeutics. A population survey conducted just by the Faculty of Social Sciences of the University of Latvia (in the age group 18-60) confirms that 81 percent of the population does not support these changes. However, despite these many negative opinions submitted in writing by institutions and professional organisations and the opinions expressed in the public space, the draft law has nevertheless been moved further to the third reading. That surprises me. And more. I want to say some statistics. As of 2017, 78 violations of the hunting rules have been recorded in total. In 2017, there were 21 decisions on illegal hunting, 30 security violations, one firearm accident, five firearms accidents in 2018, 37 security violations. Dear colleagues, be clear of me. I am not against hunting as a whole, especially with regard to hunting of an economic nature, but I believe, however, that such an amendment to the Arms Movement Act should be more carefully considered and considered and should not be supported. In conclusion, I call for the voice of experts and the public to not really be ignored and listened to. And I want to remind you, dear, let's remember that we are guests in those forests, not animals are guests in our forests! Those forests belong to animals. If I had to speak today on behalf of animals... For a long time, scientific research has shown that animals, like us, are able to feel, understand, and love. That's it! And I have to speak on their behalf today. If they could vote, they would certainly vote 'no' - against these amendments to the law. Therefore, I call on the animals not to kill for joy. And again I stress that animals also want to produce offspring. And their children want their parents back home. I therefore call for support for the proposal by Dana Reizniece-Ozola and for this provision to be rejected, which would allow the use of weapons for hunting from 16 years of age. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U95	Would it be enough for you to have a three-minute debate, Mrs Ixten? Yes or no? With three minutes, would you have had a debate? The name of the Member, Inese Ixten.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U96	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I only have three minutes, but I also do not want to delay your attention much more. We have hunters, we have a tradition, we have responsible teenagers, we have all this. And we have statistics. We have statistics, we have heard about this in several debates, and statistics are negative. I call for an authorisation for children, adolescents from 16 years of age, not to vote. I call for the 'no' vote, and I will also vote 'no'. If by our decision for one moment we intend to make children's rights and lives in Latvia worse, if for a moment we can assume that this decision can cause disability, accidents, then I call for a vote against. We are responsible! We will all be accountable to families, to children, to teenagers, if they crash themselves during an accident or, if God does not give it, kill themselves. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “It can also be done!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U97	Okay. Dear colleagues, The debate will continue after the break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name of notice to Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U98	Good morning! I invite the members of the Committee on European Affairs to a sitting during a break in the Red Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U99	Name to the Secretary of the Saeima Andrejs Klementyev for reading the results of the registration. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U100	I'll take... Okay. Please have five seconds of attention! Not registered: Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla... Well, thank you, I see, Vjačeslav Dombrovskis, Jānis Dūklavs... I don't see, Maria Golubeva... It's not, Kaspars Girgen... Okay, Kaspars... And, Ivan Clementyev... No, Richard Cole... I don't see, Ieva Krapāne... I can't see, Armands Krauze... I don't see, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere... No, Anita Muižniece... I don't see, Roman Money... I don't see, Evia Papule... I don't see, Daniel Pavilut... There's no hall, Ramona Petraviča... Not in the hall, Igor Pimenov... Igor? No, Arthur Tom Pelles... and?... I don't see, Karina Scrave... Karin, I saw... OK, it's not yet, Mārtiņš Staķis and Atis Zakaitistovs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U101	Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U102	Honourable Members! We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - draft law on arms movement law, third reading. Debate on 13. - An offer from the Saeima Member, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. We are continuing the debate after a break. The name of Member Eric Pucen.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U103	Hello, colleagues! In the debate on the possibility of hunting from the age of 16, I have heard... I hear some very big absurd places. Mr. Ageshin! Listening to you, it seems to me that soon my ears are bleeding. Looking at Riga City Council and municipal enterprises... You're telling me... ( Interface: “What connection? ” )... You're telling me... Once again, Mr Agešin points to the principle of good governance in relation to hunting. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Agešins: “Right!” ) Looking at Riga City Council and municipal enterprises, the question arises: where is the principle of good governance here? ( Internouncing call.) Mrs. Chash! We should quickly withdraw driving licences for anyone under the age of 28. Mr. Durishi and Mrs. Rieksen! Since Monday, 175 accidents have been reported in the State Police, affecting 15 people. In their midst, eight pedestrians and one bicycle player. Let's take away the chance... Let's take off the option of driving a car... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Because that's... they may also hurt people... ( Interface: “We are looking at the law of arms, not traffic! ” ) Please support this proposal and allow participation in hunting from 16 years of age. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U104	The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U105	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, The issue of young people under the age of 40 is discussed in the European Parliament. So we have opportunities for further growth along this path. You know, here it was said that there was not enough time for the debate, for the discussion... And so on... The issue of this age censor appeared for the first time in Parliament around 2000; actively, already in the form of proposals, it appeared in Parliament in 2010. The question that I also asked the various representatives at the Commission's meeting: how long is it necessary to discuss this issue and reach what conclusions? I respect any opinion - both for and against - if it is justified on the basis of what facts. But... Colleagues! We want our young people to be men, active, active, active, but at the same time we say, “No, no, they are children!” But they may want to be adults. The second extreme that I also discussed in the Commission is that, for some reason, most people, especially the non-hunting people, want to say: “I have never been a hunter and I will not be, but it is my basic position for other reasons: you know, these young people are unable to make decisions, they will immediately catch up with the stake after the amendments are made, and everyone in a slide will run into the forest to shoot.” Hunting is a whole process. It's animal maintenance, forest care. And it is often the only reason why these young people don't get away from our land. That's what keeps them in our country! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Ribena’s intermediate call.) When it comes to the opinions of various experts and things like that, you know, very strange... In the previous parliament... and the proposals received at second reading, which came... and the Commission called for these opinions... including the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education and Science... Mrs Chachsh, strangely, they were positive, supporting the reduction of age censorship, but suddenly the third reading changed diametrically. There was no reason for this again. Nor was the reasons given to those invited to the committee at the sitting - why, where is the psychological barrier, why cannot do so. If we believe that compulsory military training, which concerns the safety of children, should start from a class 1 specialised secondary school so that young people can be prepared for the life with which this measure is different? For no reason, we forget that any vehicle is also a weapon of increased danger. And a man who is not clear, sitting at the wheel drunk, is much more dangerous to the public than who is taking part in hunting with a gun. But the law allows children and adolescents from 16 years of age to get “white” rights and learn to ride a car under parental supervision. Why do we deny parents the opportunity to train these young ones too? I do not believe that there is even a lot of debate here. Let us make a decision each in its own good faith, and let us go on. Let us not waste time on issues that have been discussed in at least the last 19 years! Everyone has their own point of view. Let us put an end to this useless debate! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U106	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U107	Hello, colleagues! This is a very important debate. What makes them so important? They show how mature we politicians are, how ready we are to work in a real democratic state. That is, how much we are able to respect one another and one another and what is different from ours. It is clear that there are two radically opposite opinions and that people will not change them. However, this discussion could take place in a respectful, reasoned way, not in trying to offend one another. In my opinion, the way in which this debate is going is going on to a large extent irrational. If we are talking about arguments, then something that has just been mentioned... My counter argument would be as follows. To learn how to handle a weapon, you do not have to give the right to kill. There are many ways in which we can do so. Sometime the same young men. In order to be natural, there is no need for an opportunity to kill. There are many ways to do this, how to move actively, to be natural, to enjoy the beauty of our homeland. There are no restrictions. And, in my opinion, this restriction is very important and should be maintained. Man needs restrictions up to some level of development, because not all things he can decide properly and responsibly. There are therefore restrictions on alcohol, tobacco and, by the way, on the right to drive. Yes, it is also a situation of increased danger that can be attributed to a person, but it is given to a sixteen - year - old not for the purpose of killing. And that's a principle difference. We're not talking about a person learning to handle a gun here. We are talking about giving a man the chance to kill him. Think about it! Why is this so serious? Because at this age, the psyche is really not strengthened. This is the age at which a young person actively competes for his place in life. The power program, as you know, is one of the most harmful. If a person in this way starts to stimulate a government program and is not mature enough, it can really have serious consequences. And it's not hunting. It is about the fact that a person with this influence on his psyche, with the opportunity to enjoy the power - that he can kill someone - goes further into a society where there is no parent who follows him, whether or not he does so. And, colleagues, this is very serious. I therefore call for this proposal not to be supported. Otherwise, we can find ourselves in life like anecdotes. Do you know anecdotes about the fact that there is legal proceedings and the accused is demanding an accident in hunting? He is asked, “Tell me whence did you realize that the one to whom you shoot is not an alley?” He says, “At the moment he started shooting against me.” I would not very much like us to experience this situation in real life, not in terms of hunting. Therefore, my fellow Members, I am calling for a very responsible approach to this issue... and, above all, not only by this nature... but also look more widely when we are debating here. Try to behave like mature politicians who are really ready to work in a real democracy! ( Internouncing call.) I call on you not to support this opportunity to kill from 16 years of age. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U108	The name of Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U109	Hello, colleagues! Of course, there have been very many different opinions on the one hand and on the other. However, before we vote on the next four proposals, I would like to remind you all that there are also 16 proposals that we have not spoken about in this way. It is a proposal from the Minister of the Interior, Ģirgens, which incorporates several security guarantees - it provides for a hunter's certificate issued by the State Forest Service for these young people, as well as for a permission from the State Police and a direct presence of the owner of the weapon. So many considerations have been taken into account in these discussions to ensure the safety of these young people. Please, let us keep this in mind. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U110	The debate is not yet closed. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U111	Dear President, Honourable Members! Just one question. I was very touched by Development/About! speaking by a colleague. He named a very large number of organizations. But I don't remember how many years of abortion is allowed with us? Can't you remind me? I think it's from the age of 16. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U112	I closed the debate. The name of the committee's rapporteur. Do you want to clarify the panel's position?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U113	Yeah. I would like to point out that the specific draft law has already been viewed by the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption of the previous Saeima and the Saeima has voted and debated. It was then taken over, there was a panel debate and then the Saeima vote. It was taken over by this Saeima. Then there was the second reading, where there was also quite a lot of discussion, and also the third reading, which is precisely for the very reason that some Members have already mentioned... the interest of public organisations and public administrations led to the fact that the commission meeting was to be held not in the usual place - in the Committee on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption - but in the Red Hall. All interested parties were invited and all interested parties were given the opportunity to be heard by the Head of the Commission. Opinions vary. This is also what we see at this sitting. The Commission decided not to support 13. - the proposal by Member Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U114	Colleagues, we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - The proposal by Member Reizniece-Ozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 32, for - 37, for - 4. (Applause) The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U115	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from Member Papule. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U116	And neither can it be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U117	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from Members Agešin, Svekova and Zarins. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U118	Colleagues, the debate on this is possible, but the 15th proposal is not put to the vote. Are Members willing to debate? I wish to have a debate. Please! Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U119	Madam President, Honourable Members! Today, I do not want to talk about the moral aspect of the use of hunting weapons. A little bit about its technical and economic rationale. In today’s world, hunting, like religion, is seen by some as self - understood, but by others as an archaism. Clearly, the perception of hunting varies between the city’s inhabitants and the farmers. I would like to draw attention to one aspect that we did not have before. The second paragraph of Section 14 of the Law on the Movement of Arms, the Law on Arms, mentions firearms intended for hunting without specifying their type, but 16-year-old children will not use only small-scale firearms. Their arsenal will have the most advanced and powerful hunting rifles, including ammunition with increased lethal capacity. Such ammunition is produced with us in Latvia, Riga, in the street of Brīvības, and it seems to me that this draft law is a clear lobby. It's a pity that I can't show the company's video here, where the ball gets into the deer's body and opens like petals. Here is a small passage from the company’s advertising in English: “It creates a strong wave of shock that can stop the animal’s life functions. Person opens immediately after entering the body, ensuring large entrances and extensive bleeding. The hard shell penetrates deep into life organs.’ ( End quoted) I draw attention to the fact that hunting here is referred to as a game, but what happens if 32 grams of ammunition does not hit the deer but another player in the game? The fatal outcome or, at best, the disability is guaranteed. I therefore speak about maintaining the existing age limit on the issue of hunting weapons, because, as you say, matches for children are not a toy.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U120	So I closed the debate. Is there a desire to explain something on behalf of the commission? This proposal cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U121	16. There is a proposal from the Minister of the Interior, Ģürgen, and I will really read this to understand it. (Interior: “We have read it!” ), which we have really debated and which we will vote on. ‘ A natural person who has reached the age of 16 years but has not attained the age of 18 years, who holds a hunter’s certificate issued by the State Forest Service and who is not subject to the prohibitions referred to in this Law, with the written consent of the parents or legal representatives and with the consent of the holder of the State Police authorisation, shall have the right to use a weapon classified as hunting in the direct presence of the holder of the arms (with the exception of a threaded weapon) in individual hunting. The owner of the weapon shall be responsible for compliance with security requirements and the requirements of regulatory enactments governing hunting.” Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U122	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U123	17. - Protection... No, 17. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U124	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U125	18. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U126	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U127	19. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U128	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U129	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister for the Interior. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U130	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U131	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U132	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U133	22. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U134	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U135	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U136	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U137	24. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U138	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U139	25. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U140	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U141	26. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U142	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U143	27. - a proposal from the Minister for the Interior. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U144	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U145	28. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U146	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U147	29. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U148	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U149	30. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U150	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U151	31. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U152	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U153	32. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. Supported by 33. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U154	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U155	And 33. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U156	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U157	34. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. Supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U158	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U159	35. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U160	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U161	36. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U162	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U163	37. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U164	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U165	38. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U166	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U167	39. - The proposal by Stakis, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence. Supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U168	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U169	40. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U170	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U171	41. - The proposal by Stakis, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence. Supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U172	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U173	42. - The proposal by Stakis, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U174	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U175	43. - The proposal by Stakis, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U176	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U177	44. - The proposal by Stakis, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U178	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U179	45. - The proposal by Stakis, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U180	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U181	46. - The proposal by Stakis, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U182	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U183	47. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U184	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U185	48. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. Partly supported, includes 49. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U186	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U187	49. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U188	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U189	50. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U190	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U191	51. - The proposal by Stakis, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U192	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U193	52. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U194	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U195	53. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U196	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U197	I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U198	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on the movement of arms in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 58, for - 11, for - 5. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law on compulsory insurance of civil liability of land vehicle owners”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U199	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined this draft law and 24 proposals have been received for the third reading of the draft law. 1. is the proposal of Minister of Finance Janis Reiras. Technical nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U200	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U201	2. is Minister of Finance Jānis Reira's proposal for reasonable travel expenses... on reimbursement of expenses. Partly supported by the Commission, included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U202	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U203	3. is the proposal of Minister of Finance Janis Reiras on the eligibility of travel expenses. Partly supported by the Commission, included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U204	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U205	4. is a proposal by Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola on the cost of vocational education and training. Partly supported by the Commission, included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U206	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U207	5. is a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which clarifies editorially proposals 2, 3 and 4. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U208	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U209	6. is a Member's proposal relating to the obligation on the owner, holder or eligible user of the vehicle to provide information on the occurrence of an insurance event, if he has such information at his disposal. It should be noted here that, initially, the draft law required the owner of the vehicle to make the harmonised declaration of the accident compulsory, even though he was not present at the site of the accident. Consequently, this proposal has eliminated this situation. It has been partly supported by the Commission and is included in 8. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U210	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U211	7. is the proposal of Minister of Finance Janis Reiras. Partly supported by the Commission, includes 8. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U212	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U213	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which clarifies editorially the proposals 6 and 7. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U214	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U215	9. - The proposal from Member Rein Znotiņš. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U216	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U217	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U218	These proposals are the same... and Members support it as before.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U219	11. - the proposal by the Minister of Finance Mr. Jānis Reiras on driving a vehicle without a specific type of right, including the limitation code. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U220	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U221	12. - the proposal of Minister of Finance Janis Reira to request a harmonised notification if the insurer has reasonable doubts about a road accident. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U222	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U223	13. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U224	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U225	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Reinis Znotiņš' proposal on the rules of the regression requirement. Partly supported by the Commission, included 15. - in the proposal of Minister for Finance Janis Reira.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U226	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U227	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U228	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U229	16. - Reinis Znotiņš' proposal on the possibility of a regression requirement. Partly supported by the Commission, included 20. - in the proposal of Minister for Finance Janis Reira.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U230	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U231	17. - The proposal from Member Rein Znotiņš. Commission-supported, included 20. - in the proposal of Minister for Finance Janis Reira.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U232	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U233	18. - Reinis Znotiņš's proposal. Commission-supported, included 20. - in the proposal of Minister for Finance Janis Reira.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U234	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U235	19. - The proposal from Member Rein Znotiņš. Commission-supported, included 20. - in the proposal of Minister for Finance Janis Reira.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U236	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U237	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. So the Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U238	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U239	It should be noted that the original law provided for a recourse to the owner of the vehicle even if the owner of the vehicle was not present in the event of an accident. These proposals have managed to put an end to this situation. 21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Partly supported by the Commission, included 22. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U240	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U241	22. - the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which clarifies in editorial terms the 21st proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U242	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U243	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Partly supported by the Commission and included 24. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U244	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U245	And 24. - the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which clarifies the wording of the proposal 22. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U246	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U247	The Commission has supported these amendments and calls on Members to support them at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U248	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the law on compulsory insurance of civil liability of land vehicle owners” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Ministry of the Interior system institutions and the administration of prison places with special service levels in the law on service progress”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U249	Good afternoon, colleagues! In its meeting of 5 March of this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, conceptually supported the draft law “Amendment to the Ministry of the Interior system institutions and officials of the administration of prison places with special service grades in the law on service progress”. The draft law provides that the Cabinet of Ministers regulations will determine only the appearance of the uniform (image and description). In turn, the forms and rules for issuing and using the marks, as well as special types of clothing, personal protective equipment, equipment and inventory will be laid down in the institution's internal regulatory act. Providing the right for heads of institutions to set standards of service for themselves will facilitate planning of the material supply in the institution. Institutions will be able, when reviewing and developing supply rules, to ensure differentiation of the forms of outfit sets depending on their suitability for the specific nature of the service and the service tasks to be performed by officials. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U250	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Ministry of the Interior System Authorities and Prison Administration Officers with Special Degrees of Service in the Law on Service Progress” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U251	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 28 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U252	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U253	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, In its meeting of 5 March this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention has examined draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces”. Following the events in Ukraine in 2014, an understanding of security across Europe has changed. The number of national guards has increased in Latvia, the training of spare soldiers has resumed and the presence of the armed forces of allies has increased. At the same time, the intensity of the training process of the armed forces organized in Latvia has also increased. Such intensive training process ensures the readiness of the Battle of National Armed Forces Units, implementing the objective set in Section 2(2) of the Law on the National Armed Forces – “to protect the sovereignty of Latvia, territorial integrity and its population from aggression”. The capacity of the NBS training centre, landfill, rifles is already insufficient to ensure the training process of the National Armed Forces, including training to shoot with the battle ammunition. The Ministry of Defence actively addresses this situation by purchasing real estate as far as possible. However, the provision of training does not necessarily require a specific territory if it is to be used only a few times a year, for example for international exercises. In such situations, the NBS shall enter into an agreement with the owners or the legal holders of those territories, subject to the condition for the use of that territory. On average 38 exercises are organized every year in Latvia. But so far, if they took place outside military facilities, war ammunition were not used in such exercises. The amendments to Article 6.1 of the Law on the National Armed Forces provide that the NBS will be able to use weapons, weapon systems, special means and ammunition, including combat ammunition, which are owned or owned by other persons. It will only be possible to conclude a written agreement on the use of the land free of charge with the owner of the land or the legal owner of the land. These plots of land are intended to be granted military object status for a specified period of time, and they will be designated in accordance with the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 538 ‘Regulations concerning the information sign to be used for marking military objects’ In addition, the security requirements of the NBS Commander for the shooting of a specific type of weapon and weapon system will be met. And no derogation from these safety requirements is allowed. In addition, the draft law clarifies the competence of the Military Police in the investigation of criminal offences in accordance with the amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law of 20 June 2018, which provides the Military Police with the right to investigate, in addition, criminal offences committed in the possession of the Ministry of Defence or in the facilities held, as well as the offences committed by civil servants and officials working in these sites in connection with the performance of their duties or duties. In addition, in 2009 a gradual transfer of non-military functions to a civilian institution, the State Defence Military Objects and Procurement Centre, was launched in order to strengthen the capacity of the National Armed Forces and ensure national defence. As of 2018, NBS is kept to a maximum, where possible, from the management of military facilities in use, implementation of central purchasing and the organization of construction of the necessary NBS. The Commission has supported the draft law. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U254	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U255	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 28 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U256	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “On the disposal of real estate in Mežezera iela 3, Aizupe, Tīnižu parish, Ikšķile municipality, part for public needs – implementation of the reconstruction project of the National Regional Road P5 Ulbroka-Ogre”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U257	Dear colleagues, During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 5 March, the draft law “On disposal of the part of real estate in Mezezera Street 3, Aizupe, Tīnižu parish, Ikšķile municipality, for public needs – implementation of the reconstruction project of the National Regional Road P5 Ulbroka-Ogre”. The draft law provides for the disposal of the real estate part of the national regional road P5 Ulbroka-Ogre 20,54. - 25 kilometres for the implementation of the reconstruction project. The Legal Commission has supported the first reading of the draft law. I also call on my colleagues to support them.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U258	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On the disposal of real estate in Mežezera Street 3, Aizupe, Tīnižu parish, Ikšķile municipality, part of the disposal for public needs – implementation of the National Regional Road P5 Ulbroka-Ogre reconstruction project” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U259	Deadline for submission of proposals - April 15.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U260	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is April 15, this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Regulated Occupations and Recognition of Professional Qualifications”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Jānis Krišāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U261	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Nine proposals have been put forward to amend the law on the recognition of regulated professions and professional qualifications. 1. there is a proposal from Minister Lindhait and the Commission has unanimously supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U262	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U263	2. - a proposal from the Minister of Transport. The Commission has unanimously supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U264	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U265	3. - a proposal from the Minister of Transport. The Commission has unanimously supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U266	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U267	4. - a proposal from the Minister of Transport. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U268	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U269	5. - a proposal from the Minister of Transport. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U270	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U271	6. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport to amend Article 41. The Commission has also unanimously supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U272	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U273	And seven is a proposal by Mrs Šuplinska, Minister of Education and Science. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U274	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U275	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U276	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U277	And nine. - a proposal from the Minister of Transport, which the Commission has supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U278	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U279	We are also asking for support in general.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U280	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Regulated Occupations and Recognition of Professional Qualifications”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U281	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 21 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U282	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 21 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U283	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U284	On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pharmaceuticals”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Vitaly Orlovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U285	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Pharmaceutical Law”, second reading. One proposal has been submitted by Mr Krišāns to the second reading. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U286	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U287	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U288	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pharmaceuticals” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U289	We expect your proposals by 20 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U290	March 20, huh? Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 20 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U291	Colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law”. These amendments concern the so-called decoding of the CEC. The government has decided that all legal provisions relating to administrative offences should be transferred from the Code of Administrative Violations to the law in the area concerned. These amendments therefore concern administrative irregularities in the construction sector. All legal provisions on administrative infringements in the field of construction are transposed, as well as additional legal provisions on administrative infringements related to the movement of construction products have been added. The Commission has supported this draft law. We invite the Saeima to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U292	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U293	4 April of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U294	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is April 4. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Safety of Goods and Services”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U295	Colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Safety of Goods and Services”. We have received one proposal. It has been set up by the Commission responsible itself and is, of course, supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U296	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U297	That's all. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U298	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Safety of Goods and Services”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U299	March 28th.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U300	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Management of Used Vehicles”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U301	Colleagues! We have also received one proposal for this draft law. It is, in fact, the proposal of the responsible commission itself, which the commission has supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U302	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U303	That's all. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U304	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Management of Used Vehicles”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U305	This draft law is also on 28 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U306	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Declaration of Residence”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Eriks Pucens.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U307	The National Administration and Municipal Commission worked with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Declaration of Residence”. 14 proposals have been received. 1. is the proposal of the Minister of the Interior, Sanda Girgen, who has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U308	The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U309	2. is a proposal from the Legal Office, which has been partly supported and included in 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U310	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Uldis Budric.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U311	Hello, colleagues! I would like to remind you of the nature of the amendments to this law at all. In some words, people in prisons need access to correspondence. This was also pointed out by the Ombudsman’s Office. I would also remind you that we supported the first version at first reading on 24 January. What is the nature of the dispute in this case? This is either a mandatory measure or a right to choose. If this is a mandatory measure, it is all clear: it is systematic and we are moving on. If we leave it as a right to choose whether to indicate an additional address or not, the function of declaration itself shall not be affected in any way. This only partially addresses this problem, and again the Ombudsman's Office can write an opinion that people are not reachable in prisons. We also realize that in prisons people never go by their own will. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “You can’t know that!” It's laughter.) Mr. Neighbours, maybe you! Yeah. And the Ministry of Justice also pointed out that this would reduce bureaucracy. Because, as I said... Imagine, colleagues, if we do one thing that we know about, that we have to do it and that we can systematize it, we can do it in some way as a routine work, not every time the prisoner wants, he will be able to indicate or not to indicate an additional address, and so. I therefore call for both proposals 2 and 3 not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U312	The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U313	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you to support the proposal examined by the Commission, a decision, because it has been discussed for a very long time. What is the dispute? The Commission assessed and decided that the Residence Declaration Act did not impose an obligation on a person to provide an additional address, but only as an option. I would like to emphasise the words "only the possibility" in cases where a person has a long stay elsewhere than his declared place of residence. This is about both prisons and medical institutions, and I think we will not violate human rights and give them the opportunity to mark the declared additional address of the place of residence when persons are in prison for more than three months. It's about both treatment... other institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U314	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U315	The Human Rights and Public Affairs Commission regularly receives dozens of letters per week from prisons for violations of human rights. The Ombudsman Juris Jansons, who spoke about persons in prison at the last sitting of the Saeima, also pointed out many problems, including the reach of information. Whether they are non-payers or new proceedings against people already in prison, they need to be informed about this. Therefore, the Ombudsman also objected to this proposal and asked to reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U316	I closed the debate. The debate is closed. What should be added on behalf of the Commission? On behalf of the Commission, on proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U317	This was discussed and partly supported by the Commission. I won't have anything to say anymore.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U318	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 15, for - 44, for - 11. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U319	3. is a proposal of the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. And it is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U320	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Uldis Budric.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U321	Dear colleagues, Absolutely, the same reasoning. Please do not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U322	Name to Member Aldim Adamovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U323	Colleagues! In fact, there was quite a debate within the Commission as to whether they were the right or the obligation to declare to a person in prison this additional address for the time being. At first reading, we have voted that such an opportunity or such a right exists within the first three months. And if this is not done, after three months the prison shall be obliged to indicate this additional address, including the relevant details. At this point in time, it is proposed that its rights be full... And indeed, as Mr Budriķis said, the Ministry of Justice pointed out that there could be confusion - some point, others do not point out. And then it would really be hard to reach these people who have been in a particular prison for more than three months. I personally call for Amendment 3 to be rejected at this point in time, and I also did so in the Commission, because the wording of the first reading is, in my view, very acceptable. But really, the thoughts were shared, and the commission was mainly the vote by Members to support this proposed... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U324	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U325	On behalf of the Commission, I will say that, yes, the discussions were long. But... The proposal was partly supported by the Commission, but... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova’s intermediate call.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U326	So let us vote on proposal 3. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government! Please vote mode! Please get the result! ( Internouncing call.) No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U327	4. is a proposal from the Legal Office. Partially supported, included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U328	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U329	5. is the proposal of the Commission of State Administration and Local Government. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U330	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U331	6. is the proposal of the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U332	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U333	7. is a proposal of the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U334	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U335	8. is the proposal of the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U336	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U337	9. is a proposal of the Commission of State Administration and Local Government. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U338	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U339	10. is the proposal of Member Julia Stepanenko. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U340	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U341	Dear colleagues, The system of declaration of residence is very easy and quick. But for about 15 years, since it is possible to declare ownership, this indisputable comfort in the hand goes a number of different problems. Just as simple as it is for the owner to declare his own property, it is also possible for a third, non-member, person to declare within a few minutes (Interface.) foreign ownership. This may be due to misunderstanding, for example by giving an incorrect address for property. The system is unable to link the property address to the owner. And it can also happen due to the irresponsibility of third parties or abuse. As reported in “Latvijas Radio” program “Expression of Truth in 15 Minutes”, since 29 November 2018, the system does not prevent the declaration in public buildings, Mr. But declaring such jokes requires additional administrative resources. The third party’s declaration is sometimes reported by the owner by chance. Let us say, when the cost of exporting waste increases on the management bill, when when the owner enters into a transaction on the lease or sale of property, he must certify that no third party has declared in the apartment, but it turns out that there is, or even worse - for example, in the middle of the night the owner wakes up from an unexpected visit by representatives of the law enforcement authorities who are looking for this independent third party who has declared in the property. There have also been cases, and the owner simply has to repair the door at his own expense. As early as 2013, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development planned to introduce an electronic service “ Prohibition to declare a place of residence or register an enterprise in my property”, by registering information in the State Real Estate Information System of the State Land Service or in the State Address Register Information System, but nobody further than the discussions has happened. My proposal for obtaining an authorisation from the holder to a third party who has no legal basis to declare ownership has been drawn up on the basis of discussions that have already taken place 12. In the family. The discussions were attended by representatives of the State Land Service, the Latvian Municipal Union, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice together with 12 representatives of the Ministry of the Interior. Members of the Saeima, we concluded that the introduction of the service “Owner’s Prohibition to Declare” cannot be implemented without a separate exception, such as the owner’s spouse, relative, tenant or tenant... to prevent the owner from abuse his rights in the event of a dispute with his relatives, tenant or tenant. Such exceptions should be provided for. At the same time, the owner must be protected against arbitrary and unlawful declarations of ownership by undesirable persons. In the light of the above, I urge that the consent of the owner be introduced in cases where the legal basis for declaring ownership is, for example, a separate agreement with the owner, but not a lease or lease agreement, a relationship or marriage. In this case, the electronic consent of the owner through Latvia.lv should be added to the declaration of the place of residence. The declaration would only be deemed to have been completed if the owner had noted his consent in a specially designated field. In other cases, when a person wishes to declare his or her ownership as a tenant or as a member of his or her family, it would still be as easy to do. The introduction of such a system would lead to significant savings in administrative resources and would indeed finally solve the problem for years. Thank you, colleagues. I call on you to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U342	Name to Member Uldis Budric.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U343	Dear colleagues, This law is open in two... There are still some amendments that address these issues. Thank you again to Julia Stepanenko for updating. She has also tabled these proposals in the second open bill, so this time I will call for a 'no' vote. We will then address this problem in other amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U344	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added or explained on behalf of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U345	On behalf of the Commission, as my colleague Uldis said... we said in the committee that we would see these proposals in the second law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U346	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -13, for -56, for -3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U347	11. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U348	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U349	12. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U350	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U351	13. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Sanda Girgen. Undoed.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U352	The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U353	And 14. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U354	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U355	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U356	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Declaration of Residence” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U357	March 21st.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U358	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 21 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Unity of Measurement”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U359	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Unity of Measurement””. Five proposals were received for the second reading. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U360	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U361	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U362	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U363	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U364	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U365	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission supports and incorporates proposal 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U366	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U367	5. - a proposal from the Minister for Economic Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U368	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U369	I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U370	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Unity of Measurement” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no problem with - 66, against -14, abstaining. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U371	28 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U372	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Rihards Kozlovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U373	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, In its meeting, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission reviewed draft law prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax”. There are, in fact, two substantive amendments. The first amendment provides for exemption from income tax of the Czech lottery law in accordance with the procedure laid down by the SRS. The second amendment concerns the protection of vulnerable people, with a salary of up to EUR 20 004 per year... is due to the fact that, given the system introduced from 1 January 2018, a large part of the population could also be subject to the premium requirement this year. The aim is therefore to supplement the law with transitional provisions, which provide for... in order to protect these vulnerable taxpayers by providing for the possibility for them to pay a tax premium by 1 December 2020. There was also a debate in the Commission on additional opportunities, but the Commission generally decided that this draft law should be supported by an urgent procedure, as requested by the Cabinet of Ministers, so that we would give clear messages to vulnerable taxpayers that they would have the opportunity to actually make this premium within two years. Therefore, on behalf of the Commission, I am asking you to support the draft legislation at first reading and to give it urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U374	So let's first vote on urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U375	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 18 March and consideration - 20 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U376	Thank you. Deadline for the submission of proposals - 18 March this year and consideration - 20 March extraordinary. Current or emergency? On the other hand. So the Saeima is sitting on March 21st. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law “On International Treaties of the Republic of Latvia”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U377	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, We work with an amendment to the law “On International Treaties of the Republic of Latvia”. This is an alternative draft law driven by the Foreign Affairs Commission to the draft law submitted by the Ministry of Justice to the Saeima and watched at the Foreign Affairs Commission meeting on 13 February. It should be noted that there were quite a number of contradictions with the amendments tabled by the Ministry of Justice and there were two important parts: one on determining the competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the other on questions about the international commitments of municipalities towards the state and regulation of these obligations. Following a wide-ranging debate, Members decided to separate these amendments from the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Consequently, those relating to the amendment and falling within the competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the storage of international agreements and agreements are all agreements concluded since 4 May 1990. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for them within the framework of this draft law, and we are leading this draft law as an alternative. As regards the mutual relations between municipalities and the state in relation to international law, the commitments made, we will be inviting the Saeima to establish a Legal Commission for the Co-Negislative Commission on a new week, as there is a need for an in-depth legal assessment of whether the amendments proposed by the Ministry of Justice fall within the scope of this Law or whether they should nevertheless be considered in the Law “On Municipalities”. I therefore call for support to be given to the alternative draft law drawn up by the Foreign Affairs Commission, as we decided by the Commission and as you have already supported you today - without a re-examination by the Foreign Affairs Commission. I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U378	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the law “On International Treaties of the Republic of Latvia” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U379	Proposals should be submitted by 22 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U380	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 22 March this year. On the agenda - consideration of the draft decision. Draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the draft law on Amendments to the Packaging Act (No. (Lp13) for second reading until 20 May 2019.’ Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the draft law on Amendments to the Packaging Act (No. 181/Lp13) for the second reading until 20 May 2019.’ Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 66, against - no, refraining - 15. Decision adopted. On the agenda - consideration of Members' requests. Requests received by Members. Dear colleagues, The Saeima Presidium has received a request from Member Gobzems, Srūde, Smita, Stepanenko, Krišāna, Planta, Rubika, Dauges, Vacāns and Zariņš to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On sale of real estate at Skolas iela 2, Riga, on Real Estate. The request shall be open to all Members. The applicants have asked for a statement of reasons. On behalf of the applicants, Member Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U381	Honourable Members! The story is very simple. Artur Krišjānis Kariņš owns the property – the former cinema “Pionieris” building, which he wants to sell. There's a buyer. The buyer is from the Russian Federation and connected to the elite of power. Kirill Silkins and Vladimir Silkins, former deputy of Moscow... You can check the connection with Gazprom yourself. To close a direct deal between Kariņš and a Russian citizen - it does not look good for a Euro-Atlantic politician, especially at a time when Ukraine is in fact having a war with Russia and the West imposing sanctions on those close to the Kremlin. But, as we can see, Karin doesn't die. A decision is made to sell the property by setting up a scheme or smoke cover. The property is given to the wife, who, after prior agreement with the said buyer, apparently Silkin's family, invests the property in SIA, thus reducing the expenses of re-registration of the property in the Land Register, because the re-registration of the property in the Land Register pays something, but the re-registration of the shares in the Land Register does not pay anything. Kariņš is then sold to another company, which has no funds at all and whose owner's official's declaration shows round zero. This company, in turn, gets into the hands of a true beneficiary through the offshore chain, whose name is read... Cyril Silkin. From this point of view and from the offshore scheme, the Russian citizen is trying to conceal the origin of money, which raises a valid question about the legal nature of this money. I would like to say that, if such a situation had been discovered, for example, by John Urbanovich's transactions, there would certainly have been five De facto programmes and four criminal proceedings. But our Prime Minister is obviously an exception. And our Prime Minister apparently deals related to offshores and the inflow of money of unknown origin in the amount of more than 6.5 million in Latvia... Is that acceptable?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Even after the invasion of Crimea... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U382	Thank you. Consequently, we shall refer the request to the Requesting Commission. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Kaspars Girgens from the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of the Member Kaspars Ģirgens from the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Mr Kaspars Girgens to the Foreign Affairs Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Mr Kaspars Ģirgens to the Committee on Foreign Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda is the examination of the own-initiative proposal. Draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 226 collective application of Latvian citizens “On banning food packaging containing Bisphenol A””. On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - Member Janīna Kursīte-Pakule.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U383	Dear colleagues, On 1 February of this year, the Saeima received a collective application from 10 226 Latvian citizens “On ban of food packaging containing Bisphenol A”. On 27 February, the Board of Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima launched an initial evaluation of the application and heard a representative of the initiative applicants who pointed to the dangers of bisphenol A in food packaging and its adverse effects on human health. On 6 March, the Commission heard experts from the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Food and Veterinary Service, the Latvian Institute of Organic Synthesis and the Latvian University of Agriculture. Having assessed all the information received, the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications decided unanimously at its meeting on 6 March 2019 to submit a collective application of 10 226 Latvian citizens on the prohibition of food packaging containing Bisphenol A to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy for further evaluation. Please support the prepared draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U384	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name to Anda Chakša.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U385	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Why is this activity and what should we know about Bisphenol A? First thing. I don't know how many of you, when you take the plastic glasses, look at the small sign that they have at their bottom. Regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 140 determine which substances are designated. Those that should be avoided are either marked “3” or “6” or are small letters “PC”, “PVC”, “PC7”. You won't believe that this glass doesn't have it, but out, on the big water drum, there are these numbers... is prohibited. The second thing. Just a can of can. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Chakša shows canned box.) Yes, a simple can of can, but the inner coating is with bisphenol A. ( Intercretion: “There the game meat is inside! ” (Laughter) And that would be nothing, but any preservatives are heat treated above 100 degrees, but bisphenol A will be active from 60 degrees. Why is it so harmful? Because it affects our health. We can fight to reduce oncological diseases, but if we do not exclude Bisphenol A from the food package at the same time, it has a particular effect on children's health, because it is very harmful to our endocrine system and it causes obesity, feminisation of children, adolescents, as has been said here too, an increase in breast tumours, prostate tumours in society. This substance tends to accumulate in the body. It is then found in waste water, and when we measure it, it is found in human urine. It is important that Bisphenol A is already banned in children's bottles throughout the European Union. With effect from 12 January 2017, Bisphenol A is classified in the European Union as having a toxic effect on human health. And even though currently levels of bisphenol have already been reduced in some packages, it is a substance that is harmful and cannot be present at all. This work must certainly be gradual, and the first could be that label - free of bisphenol. But surely we should move towards excluding bisphenol from the package where food is stored. We are all proud of it (Interior call.) That we live in the green... and good, and successful in society, but bisphenol is what poisons us. Thank you. Please support me. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U386	Name to Member Artus Neminis. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U387	This subject is really topical, and what the previous speaker said is indeed true. And... but canned cans... and it's really true. It's a question of attitude. How many years have you been Minister for Health? How old? This is people... This submission is from 8 September 2016... People have tried to collect 10,000 signatures and have collected them within three years. You have finally collected it, but when you were Minister, Mrs Chaksh, you did not care about it. Now you come with cannons, props, here, on the platform (interfaces: “Yes!” Thank you very much. and tell us what needs to be done. Of course, this was to be done. But you were the Minister for Health! You were! And why didn't you take care of it? Now you're coming and telling. We should have done it more quickly! Please pass this commission and don't listen to this catch, how bad is everything, huh?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U388	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U389	Colleagues! Dear colleagues, Mr. Neighbours! We can fight from this troupe on bisphenol, on the support of cancer patients, on the transfer of a centenary's money for other purposes, but the problem is quite elsewhere. The problem is not that Mrs Čakša was a minister. The problem is that we do not have a set-up in which these collective submissions are directed further. I do not want this collective submission to be measured at the time of the application (Dep. A. Neighbours: “We support!” ), so I have tabled the appropriate amendments to the Rules of Procedure so that these collective submissions, which we have jointly supported, are finally converted into law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U390	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U391	Highly respected colleagues! Very short. I invite you to support the proposal of the Commission for Mandate, Ethics and Application, because direct packaging of bisphenol A is a problem not only in Latvia, but in the world as a whole. And I would therefore also ask you to listen to what Mrs Chakša said. There's a lot of truth there. The most important thing is that you should look further at this issue at the Saeima, how to give citizens an opportunity to assess whether a food that is packed in a particular package... or really this pack contains bisphenol A. And there might be quite a lot of solutions. For example, specify... much more impressive would be to indicate this label - without bisphenol A... or that it really is there. I would like to say straight away that the proposal to ban completely Latvian-made products in the bisphenol A package will unfortunately not protect our citizens from such foods, because we are in the European Union and in the common market with other countries where this harmful compound is allowed. So these products will still enter our market. We cannot completely exclude this. Consequently, it is, in my opinion, a common issue for the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U392	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U393	To a certain extent, Mr. Durish described it quite precisely. I would like to say straight away that I personally support the transfer to the Commission, because the people's initiative, on which more than 10 000 signatures have been collected, must be respected and must work on it. But I would very much urge you not to approach this issue emotionally, but to approach it practically, scientifically and not only to look at the harm... Well, I'll remind you of the harmful effects of smoking. Benzopyren is also harmful, but it is consumed by a person in food since he started to use them, smoke them or otherwise extend their shelf life, as he says. The question is, how much we used it. And everywhere Bisphenol A appears, does it really need it in the package? That is a very important thing. So that we approach that issue in essence, without emotions! As Mr Dūritis said very precisely, we need to understand that we must ban the production of something in Latvia - this does not mean that we will not use it if it does so for the rest of the European Union. For God's sake, let us not do anything that makes our competitiveness less, let us produce something that we send here to countries where it will not be prohibited... This will undermine our competitiveness. I have to understand that this is a broader question about the Latvian market. It is an issue that is, in fact, the competence of the European Commission to some extent. There is a whole Directorate - the Directorate for Food Safety, Consumer Safety - that looks at such issues as the permissible rules for products, packaging and so on. Let's not go ahead with the wheels, destroying something here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U394	Colleagues! Members Adamovičs, Kaimiņš, Skride, Strike and Dzintars are asking to continue the Saeima sitting without interruption - until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U395	Colleagues, I also support this initiative. I think this is a very important issue if we really want to think about a sustainable nation. I understand that most of us are ready to support it, so as the Secretary of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, I would like to call on the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Applications: if you have a debate, different opinions have been expressed, please submit to us certain things, opinions that we could work with to go ahead, competent and comprehensively. Because there are very many aspects of this initiative. One is about health, about the environment, and the other about our competitiveness. I see that we can find a solution so that all parties can benefit. Even for the same production. There is no problem - if anyone wants to, we can produce other containers and send them. But we can make this requirement, if we succeed in doing so, a competitive advantage for local producers. So we need to think smart, creative and, above all, to have a political will to do so. And most importantly, we organise this discussion in such a way that we really get a competent, reasoned opinion. Because, as Mr Schmidt has already said, it will not be easy because it is likely to end up in coordination with the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U396	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U397	Hello! There is no doubt that this draft decision will be supported. I don't know why... Perhaps someone else wants to come, say it from the barn and take time. “ What are you doing?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “What did you come to spend time with yourself? ” ) But when talking about the champions of lies and hypocrites, again - about the hypocrites speaking... Just a minute ago! - there was a vote on it, against... and some Members... Many Members voted against the Latvian tradition of hunting, as they say, but now they are not ashamed to climb into the tributary and spread canning with canned hunters without a label... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Čakša’s intermediate call.) The hunters wish you a good appetite.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U398	Name of Member Janina Kursīte-Pakulė.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U399	Dear colleagues, Mr. Zarins! Your accusations... or questions... I want to dispel the concern that... at the initiative of any ManaBalss.lv, if it is supported by the Saeima, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application shall submit all materials previously available. If the Saeima votes - and I hope I am voting very much - for further examination and evaluation, all the materials of Mandates, ethics and applications have already been prepared by the Commission for National, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. And the other is Mr. Schmidt. You say, let us not rely on emotions. We also did not rely on emotions in the Commission for Mandate, Ethics and Application, although emotions cannot be excluded this time. Because if you're Ivar Kalvina and the professors of the University of Agriculture invited, you don't think you're high enough, then it's hard to tell you what higher competence you expect. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Schmidt: “It’s not a reproach, but a call!” ) I hope that the discussions will continue within the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, but the discussions within the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Applications were long and intense enough. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U400	I closed the debate. I understand that nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 226 Latvian citizens’ collective application “Forbidding food packaging containing Bisphenol A””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. The agenda of the sitting has been examined. I would like to inform you of the answers to Members' questions scheduled today. Minister of Justice Janis Bordans on issues related to Member Krauze, Taite, Augūlis, Vacāns and Valaiņa “On provision of services of a sworn lawyer within the framework of commercial activities”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that an oral answer can be given. Member of the Ministry of Justice of Zariņa, Krišāns, Klementyeva, Kabanovas and Orlovas “On the “independent legal opinion” implemented by the Ministry of Economic Affairs in connection with the information report “On regulation, monitoring and action of mandatory procurement of electricity and guaranteed charges for installed capacity following the decision of the Saeima of 10 January 2019” reviewed at the Cabinet of Ministers meeting of 29 January 2019. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that an oral answer can be given. On the question of Member Reizniece-Ozola, Dūklava, Augulis, Kučinskas and Bergmanis, Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš on the intolerant attitude of the government towards payment of envelope pay. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Prime Minister informs us that due to a pre-planned timetable, no oral answer can be given. On behalf of Member Krišana, Orlova, Lochmele-Lunova, Kucina and Tutina, Minister for Welfare Ramonas Petraviča “On Increasing Pensioners’ Income”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that, due to travel abroad, no oral answer can be given. So today's answers to Members' questions will take place. They will be answered by the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns. Please call me! Please register the Members! Time for notifications. Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U401	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I invite Members to meet the first meeting of the Group of Members under the age of 40 in the Yellow House in five minutes. Of course, there is no censor here, everyone is invited to join. Noise in the hall. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) ... up to 40 years of age. Yes, everyone is, of course, invited to join this group, but I call on those who are up to 40 years of age as a priority. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Noise in the hall. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U402	Name to Member Normunds Gun. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U403	Hello, colleagues! Immediately after the sitting, I invite you to the Yellow House for the establishment of the Moldovan Interparliamentary Cooperation Group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U404	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U405	Dear colleagues, Ten minutes after the meeting in the Yellow House, the establishment of a group of Members for cooperation with the Moroccan Parliament will take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U406	Name of the Saeima Secretary Andrejs Klementyev. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U407	High honourable Members! Not registered: Raimonds Bergmanis... I don't see, he... Not applicable. Dombrovskis... No, John Duklav... No, Mary Golubeva... No, Ivan Clementyev... No, Ieva Krapāne... No, Armands Krauze... No, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere... No, Roman Money... I don't see, no, Evia Papule... No, Daniel Pavilut... No, Ramona Petraviča... Ramona Petraviča! ( Interface: “No, no! ” )... No, Igor Pimenov... No, Arthur Tom Pelles... No, Mārtiņš Staķis, Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-14-PT13-524-U408	I'm closing the sitting.
